Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19442
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT II
(Credit 2445-KE)
June 16, 1999
Rural Development Operations 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in their
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP II)
(Cr. 2445-KE)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At Completion: US$ 1 = KSh 61.9
At Appraisal:   US$ 1 = KSh 35
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Kenya
1 July - Jurne 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASLP       Agricultural Sector Investment Program
ASMP I   First Agricultural Sector Management Project
ASMP II   Second Agricultural Sector Management Project
ATAP       Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
CAK        Cotton Association of Kenya
CDO        Cotton Development Officer
CSRP       Civil Service Reform Program
DRSRS    Department of Resource Surveys and Remote Sensing
GOK        Government of Kenya
IMS        Institutional Management Specialist
KSA        Kenya Sugar Authority
MIS        Management Information System
MOA        Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD       Ministry of Co-operative Development
MOLD       Ministry of Livestock Development
MTR        Mid term review
NEAP       National Environmental Action Plan
NEMA       National Environmental Management Agency
ODC        Oilseeds Development Council
PBMC       Performance based management contract
SNA        Staffing Norms Analysis
SSRS       Sugar Sector Restructuring Study
TNA        Training Needs Assessment
Vice President             :Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Director                    :Mr. Harold E. Wackmaan
Sector Manager             :Ms. Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader                :Ms. Christine Cornelius



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP II)
(Cr. 2445-KE)
Table of Contents
PREFACE.                                                                                               I
EVALUATION SUMMARY .II
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ....................................................I
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ................................................. I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ................................................................       2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT.                                                                                    2
D. SUSTAINABILITY ................................................................                 10
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ................................................................               10
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ................................................................           11
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ................................................................          11
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS .11
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .                                                                           11
PART II: STATISTICALTABLES............................................................................................13
Appendices
A. Mission's Aide Memoire
B. Government's Contribution
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP II)
(Cr. 2445-KE)
Preface
1.   This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Agricultural Sector Management
Project (ASMP II) in Kenya, for which IDA Credit 2445-KE in the amount of SDR 13.8 million (US$ 19.4
million equivalent) was approved on December 15, 1992, and became effective on September 29, 1993. The
mid-term Review took place in October 1996. The Credit was due to be closed on December 30, 1997. but was
extended to a final closure date of June 30, 1998. An amount of SDR 1. I million was cancelled at the end of
1997 and a further cancellation of SDR 2.9 million was made at the date of closure.
2.   This ICR was prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program. on behalf of the
Africa Rural Development Operation I (AFTRI) of the World Bank. Preparation of the ICR commenced with
the mission's visit to Kenya from June 1-2, 1998. This report is based on material gathered from the project
files and supervision reports, as well as discussions with Bank and Government of Kenya (GOK) staff
associated with the project. These included staff from the Project Management Unit, the unit established under
the project to coordinate the implementation of the project, and officials in the Ministries of Agriculture.
Environment and Conservation, Cooperative Development, and Planning and National Development.
3.    The Government contributed to the preparation of the ICR through discussions on the mission's Aide-
Memoire, and prepared the Government's "Project Completion Report".



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP 11)
(Cr. 2445-KE)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.         The main objectives of the project were to foster institutional reform in the line ministries
involved in the sector, and in the key sub-sectors of cotton, sugar. oilseeds. co-operatives and environmental
planning. These objectives were to be achieved mainly through technical assistance and tTaining in seven main
components. The projects objectives were appropriate and supported the Government's stated policy of making
a major shift in public sector involvement in the agriculture sector. whilst at the same time creating an enabling
environment for private sector participation. The project was the third IDA-supported technical assistance
project in the agricultural sector since the early 1980s. Whilst preceding operations made some progress in
improving some managerial and analytical capacity. and some basic reforms in budgeting and management
within the relevant Ministries in the sector. their capacity remained inadequate in delivering services. managing
programs and formulating policy. This formed the basis of the rationale for ASMP 11. a capacity building
project with a heavy emphasis on technical assistance and training, which became effective on Septemtber 29.
1993. The project closed on June 30.1998.
Implementation Experience and Results
General
2.         Most project activities were implemented satisfactorily, and the project's outputs were completed
generally to a high standard. However, turning recommendations into specific action required the coimmiiitmiient
of Government and the political will to make difficult decisions, and then to follow these through. The project's
design anticipated that these decisions would be taken during the life of the project. and that at the closure of
the project, the impacts would be beginning to be realized. In general, the timing for important decisions and
actions specified in the SAR was not met, and subsequent time-bound actions agreed between Bank supervision
missions and Government were repeatedly delayed. Many of the recommendations had not been implemented
by the closure of the project.
3.         Given the somewhat reluctant nature of the policy reform process in Kenya. the Bank took a
phased approach; sequencing policy adjustment credits in the 80s to secure key policy refonms. sector
management in the 90s to build institutional capacity, leading to a proposed sector investment loan this year.
ASMP 11 was designed as the immediate precursor to an Agriculture Sector loan, and work done under the
project led to the preparation and appraisal of the proposed Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP) in
the final year of the project. It was originally expected that ASIP would commence almost immediately after
the closure of ASMP II with the reforms anticipated under ASMP II expected to provide a basis for ASIP
implementation. However, as the reform timetable was delayed, the reforms themselves were taken on as
activities to be achieved under ASIP. Although ASIP remains an important component of agricultural policy in
Kenya, its implementation has been delayed pending completion of the government medium term expenditure
review, work on redefining the core functions of government and further progress on civil service reformn. The
bank, now in a low case scenario with Kenya, now awaits government decision on their immediate investment
priorities, while interim activities, in particular related to the restructuring of the ministry, continue.



iii
Achievement of Objectives
4.         This project can be characterized by an apparent dichotomy between successful implementation of
the project's components but yet less than satisfactory progress towards meeting its objectives. This is due to
the delays on the Govemment's side in taking decisions on and implementing the recommendations developed
by the technical assistance teams.
*  Whilst there has been a major shift towards private sector ownership in the cotton subsector, little of the
intended change in the oilseeds and sugar subsectors has yet resulted. There has been no Cabinet and GOK
approval for an industry controlled Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA). However, as a result of the SSRS
recommendations, the management of three sugar factories has been placed under performance based
management contracts (PBMC) with competent firms.
*  There has been progress in reforming the cooperatives subsector but it still too early to gauge the project's
impact since the relevant legislation came into force only on June 1, 1998. However, given that the policy
and legislation is in force that will provide the framework for the redirection of the cooperative movement
to make a contribution to the development of the agricultural enterprises of over two million member
farmers, and that the implementation is likely to proceed, this component is judged to have a satisfactory
outcome.
*  There has been no increase in the overall efficiency of MOA which can be attributed to the project because
the  process  of  implementing  the  restructuring  has  only  just  started.  However.  the
Privatization/Commercialization sub-component had the objectives of generating plans for the privatization
and commercialization of agricultural services, and facilitating the establishment of a system of private
sector commodities exchanges to develop a more open market for agricultural commodities. Numerous
workshops at all levels to sensitize stakeholders to the principles and potential of privatization were
conducted, as well as the preparation of exit, entry and maintenance plans for 16 sub-sectors in agriculture.
training of officials to implement privatization plans, and the generation of publicity in support of
privatization of various finctions.
-  ASMP II support has helped DRSRS continue to improve its capabilities in land. agriculture, livestock and
wildlife information, and can be regarded as a centre of high competence in its area of work. The project's
support has had an impact both on the quality and usefulness of the information generated and on the
planning capacity of DRSRS itself
*  Whilst there has been an improvement in natural resource information, the proposed institutional structure
for environmental management and coordination is not yet in place.
The project has made some progress in laying the groundwork for reform, but the main objective, improved
management and efficiency of MOA and key sectors, has not yet been achieved. However, the future potential
impact of the project in achieving these objectives is high, and is dependent on commitment and action on the
part of Government of Kenya (GOK) to implement the reforms and restructuring proposed by ASMP 11.



iv
Project Costs and Financing
5.         The costs of the project were estimated at US$ 21.5 million, of which US$ 19.4 million was to be
financed by the IDA Credit and the remaining US$2.1 million by GOK. Actual project costs amounted to
approximately US$ 15.33 million, US$14.12 million from the IDA Credit and US$1.21 million from GOK.
Approximately US$8.9 million and US$2.5 million was disbursed for technical assistance and training
respectively. In general, the amount disbursed on each of the components was less than that estimated. mainly
due to overall budget ceilings set by the Ministry of Finance irrespective of the source of the funds.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
6.         The major factor that affected the implementation and the impact of the project was the
unsatisfactory performance of the Government in adhering to agreed time-bound actions on reform and
restructuring. There was ambivalent political commitment to the reform process. This was exacerbated by three
changes of Ministers and Permanent Secretaries during the project's life. resulting in implementation delays as
each needed to be informed of and become committed to the project's objectives. In addition, there was an
under-estimation of the time required for the reform process to result in action on the part of GOK. This proved
to be far longer than the timetable under which the project was operating.
Bank Performance
7.         Bank performance was generally satisfactory. Bank staff were diligent in their efforts through
design, appraisal and supervision. The failure on the part of GOK to complete agreed actions on time was
continually addressed by supervision missions.
Borrower Performance
8.   The Borrower performance in carrying out the analytical work required for most project components was
satisfactory. However, performance in adhering to agreed time-bound actions on reform and restructuring was
unsatisfactory and this is the main factor that negatively influenced the project's outcome. Some important
covenants contained in the development credit agreement, most notably the commitment to divestiture of GOK
holdings in the sugar industry, and the agreement to establish the Oilseeds Development Council., were not
complied with.
Assessment of Outcome
9.   As mentioned above, all of the important project outputs in each of the sectors have been completed
satisfactorily. The potential impact of the project is substantial, but the actual impact of the project so far is very
modest. The outcome of the project is contingent on what happens following the project's closure. Given that
the experience of the project shows that it takes a long time to implement major reforms, both within line
Ministries and within the civil service in general, the future progress of the project's thrust is uncertain.
Nevertheless, the project design clearly envisaged reform and improved efficiency to be achieved in the major
agricultural subsectors and in overall sector management as a result of project activities within the time frame
of the project. In most cases, this has not yet been achieved. Therefore, irrespective of the valuable contribution
that the project made in providing guidance to the Govemment concerning reforms in the agricultural sector, at
the time of project completion, the project must be considered to have an unsatisfactory outcome.



v
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
10.        In spite of the successful implementation of the project's activities. and the generally high
standard of the analysis and recommendations on the part of the technical assistance teams, the project failed to
bring about the major reforms anticipated. This suggests perhaps that. although the project was a relatively
large-scale endorsement, in cost terms, of the Govemment's stated reform program. it was still not sufficient
leverage to maintain the Government's commitment. The failure of the overall reform process in Kenya,
highlighted by the cancellation of the Structural Adjustment Credit in 1998, should be noted and considered.
Whilst the SAR recognized the major risk of lack of commitment of GOK to the reform program. the SAR
under-estimated the time-frame, difficulty and political complexity of achieving major institutional and
operational reforms within the MOA.
11.        Future Operations. Several important reforms relating to the role and function of government in
the sector and restructuring of the MOA are to be carried out under the proposed IDA-financed ASIP. GOK
has given verbal assurances that it is committed to the reforms, and that they will be carried out. If that proves
to be the case, then the future operations of the MOA are likely to be substantially enhanced. thus establishing
the major pre-requisite for the successful implementation of ASIP, and probably substantially improving
conditions for enhanced agricultural productivity and financial viability. Until the reforms are substantially
implemented, there is little prospect of enhanced operational efficiency and effectiveness from the MOA.
Should the recommended reforms be implemented. the project's performance rating could be adjusted upwards.
12.        The key lessons learned from the implementation of the ASMP 11 are:
The implementation of major institutional reforms is a lengthy, complex and politically
sensitive process, with substantial financial implications. A phased approach. adjustment
lending, capacity/institution building, then sector investment lending has been applied in the
Kenyan context over the last fifteen years. The speed of reform is very sensitive to the level
of commitment, and this is both difficult to measure, and is subject to change during the
process. The lesson learned is that in designing projects which are expected to induce
institutional reform, a phased, realistic implementation time frame which can adjust to
changes in government will and commitment should be given.
*  In the process of inducing reform, technical assistance can be effective in providing analysis
and guidance to Govemment. However, the actual implementation of genuine reform
depends on clear commitment to action from Government and other stakeholders.
Conditionalities have not worked, and strengthening policy/analytical capacity has not yielded
the intended impact in an environment in which all aspects of the reform process are
politicized.
*  The complexity of agro-industrial reform, particularly in the sugar industry, was under-
estimated at appraisal. There were technical, financial, industry policy and political factors
which have caused the delay in reforms to this sub-sector. The lesson is that planning the
reform of such industries requires stronger government commitment and the participation of
key stakeholders.
*  Progress towards the implementation of the key reforms under ASMP 11 is considered to be a
prerequisite to the successful implementation of ASIP, and should not be included as actions
during the implementation of ASIP.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP II)
(Cr. 2445-KE)
- PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.         The main objectives of the project were to: (i) develop key agricultural sub-sectors by
fostering greater private sector investment; (ii) reform the cooperative sector to make cooperatives
more efficient and responsive to member needs; (iii) increase the overall efficiency of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) and the Ministry of Livestock Development (MOLD) (amalgamated into the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MOALD) after the start of the project) by
rationalizing their role. structure and strategic functions; and (iv) ensure the sustainable use of
Kenya's physical resources by strengthening the capability in Government to factor in the impact on
the environment of agricultural programs and policy initiatives.
2.         These objectives were to be achieved through seven main components, each with a
strong emphasis on technical assistance and training: (a) developing the cotton subsector (US$ 1.81
million); (b) restructuring the sugar subsector (US$ 1.69 million); (c) developing the oilseeds
subsector (US$ 2.95 million); (d) restructuring the cooperatives subsector (US$ 0.23 million); (e)
developing the capacity of the then MOA and MOLD (US$ 6.99 million); (f) strengthening the
Department of Resource Surveys and Remote Sensing (DRSRS) (US$ 5.71 million); and (g)
developing the institutional capacity to prepare and implement a National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP) (US$ 2.2 million). Some US$16.2 million of the total estimated project costs of US$ 21.5
million was for technical assistance and training.
3.         The project was the third IDA-supported technical assistance project in the agricultural
sector. The Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (ATAP - Cr 1277-KE) made a start on
strengthening the Government's capabilities in planning and implementing policy, and was followed
by the Agricultural Sector Management Project I (ASMP I Cr 1718-KE) which achieved some
progress in improving some managerial and analytical capacity and some basic reforms in budgeting
and management. However. at the conclusion of these two interventions, the capacity of the relevant
Ministries remained inadequate in delivering services, managing programs and formulating policy.
This formed the basis of the rationale for ASMP II.
4.         The project's objectives and supported the Government's stated policy of making amajor
shift in public sector involvement in the agriculture sector, whilst at the same time creating an
enabling environment for private sector participation. The project was ambitious, given the relatively
short period of time (4 years) in which such a major overhaul of deeply entrenched functions and work
practices was to be carried out, particularly as a major risk identified at appraisal was unsustained and
fragmented Government commitment to this process.



2
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.         This project can be characterized by an apparent dichotomy between successful
implementation of the project's components but yet less than satisfactory progress towards meeting its
objectives. This is due to the delays on the Government's side in taking decisions on and
implementing the recommendations developed by the technical assistance teams. Whilst there has
been a major shift towards private sector ownership in the cotton subsector, little of the intended
change in the oilseeds and sugar subsectors has yet resulted. There has been progress in refonning the
cooperatives subsector but it still too early to gauge the project's impact since the relevant legislation
came into force only on June 1, 1998. There has been no increase in the overall efficiency of MOA
which can be attributed to the project since the process of implementing the restructuring has not
started. Whilst there has been an improvement in natural resource information, the proposed
institutional structure for enviTonmental management and coordination is not yet in place. Therefore.
the project has partly achieved its objectives but the main one, improved management and efficiency
of MOA, has not been achieved. However, the future potential impact of the project in achieving these
objectives is high, and is dependent on coummitment and action on the part of GOK to implement the
reforms and restructuring proposed by ASMP 11.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
General
6.         The project became effective on September 29, 1993 and the mid-term Review took
place in October 1996. The original expected date of closing of the project was December 31, 1997
with the date for completion of project activities June 30, 1997. Following a request from GOK, the
project was extended to June 30, 1998.
7.         Whilst there were some delays in the start-up of the project's activities, the project's
outputs were completed and generally were of a high standard. However, turning recommendations
into specific action required the commitment of Government to make difficult decisions, and then to
follow these through. The project's design anticipated that these decisions would be taken during the
life of the project, and that at the closure of the project, the impacts would be beginning to be realized.
In general, the timing for important decisions and actions specified in the SAR was not met, and
subsequent time-bound actions agreed between Bank supervision missions and Government were
repeatedly delayed. Many of the recommendations had not been implemented by the closure of the
project.
8.         Given the somewhat reluctant nature of the policy reform process in Kenya, the Bank
took a phased approach; sequencing policy adjustment credits in the 80s to secure key policy reforms,
sector management in the 90s to build institutional capacity, leading to a proposed sector investment
loan this year. ASMP II was designed as !he immediate precursor to an Agriculture Sector loan, and
work done under the project led to the preparation and appraisal of the proposed Agricultural Sector
Investment Program (ASIP) in the final years of the project. The pre-appraisal for ASIP was
undertaken simultaneously with the MTR of ASMP II, and its appraisal took place during April 1998,
prior to ASMP 11 closure. At the mid-term review, these reforms were then expected to provide a basis
for ASIP implementation, as efficient, accountable, client-oriented public sector services are generally
seen as necessary pre-conditions for ASIP. However, as these reforms were further delayed, the
reforms themselves were taken on as activities to be achieved under ASIP. This particularly applies to
the reforms to the structure and functioning of MOA, and the reform of the Sugar sub-sector (which
has also been a key unmet condition of the overall structural adjustment dialog). It was originally
expected that ASIP would commence almost immediately after the closure of ASMP II with the
reforms anticipated under ASMP II expected to provide a basis for ASIP implementation. However, as
the reform timetable was delayed, the reforms themselves were taken on as activities to be achieved



3
under ASIP. Although ASIP remains an important component of agricultural policy in Kenya, its
implementation has been delayed pending completion of the government medium term expenditure
review, work on redefining the core functions of government and further progress on civil service
reform. The bank, now in a low case scenario with Kenya, now awaits government decision on their
immnediate investment priorities, while interim activities, in particular related to the restructuring of
MOA, continue.
9.         The establishment of a Project Management Unit is considered to have been the
appropriate mechanism for the coordination of the project's activities. Specific analytical work was to
be done, with clear completion dates and the involvement and training of line ministry staff at every
step of the way. However, the question of salary levels for project staff different from those of
Ministry staff did create some difficulties in working relationships with the Ministry. Project funds
were limited by overall Ministry of Finance budget ceilings which resulted in only US$ 13 million of
the US$19 million anticipated under the credit being disbursed. This restricted some of the planned
activities, particularly in the training components of the project.
Developing the Cotton Sub-sector
10.        The design of this component focussed on legal and institutional reform, and applied
research and extension. Given the previous poor performance of the Cotton Board and the
government-owned gins. this was a satisfactory approach to creating an enabling environment for
cotton producers and private sector processors. Project actions have been implemented satisfactorily.
The international firm appointed to provide the medium term technical assistance (Cotton Breeder,
Cotton Research Scientist and Cotton Extension Specialist) did so expeditiously. The same firm also
provided short-term Cotton Processing, Cooperatives and Legal Specialists. The technical assistance
performed satisfactorily. An Officer/Consultant (O/C) Cotton was recruited locally to work with the
international consultants and to provide follow-up action after their work was completed.
*  The main activities completed in this sub-sector have been a review of the Cotton
Act. with a report submitted to GOK and stakeholders; and the submission of a
Cabinet Memorandum, recommending the establishment of the industry-controlled
Cotton Association of Kenya (CAK).
11.       In the meantime, the Cotton Board has ceased activities with accumulated debts of some
KSH350 million (US$ 5.7 million), and has become moribund. It has been recommended that day-to-
day management of cotton Cooperatives be transferred from Ministry of Cooperative Development to
cooperative members under the new cooperative legislation. A report detailing workable
recommendations on cotton processing and marketing has been produced. Plans have been developed
for the implementation of the main recommendations.
12.       In the area of technological support for cotton production, two new improved cotton
varieties have been produced. and seed multiplication and distribution to farmers have commenced. A
report detailing a cotton research program has been prepared and accepted, and a report detailing
actions to revitalize cotton extension has also been prepared and accepted. Cotton Development
Officers (CDOs) have been appointed in 24 districts.
13.        However, many key actions identified at appraisal remained outstanding at the close of
the project. These were to:
* Amend cotton legislation to allow for formal closure of the Cotton Board and
establishment of the CAK;
*  Fully operationalize the extension service to farmers;



4
*  Strengthen and intensify the agreed cotton research program;
*  Establish a private seed production system using the new varieties;
*  Implement the cotton grading system;
*  Operationalize lint marketing procedures.
14.        Despite the relatively satisfactory implementation of project activities, the overall impact
remains unsatisfactory. At the close of the project. there was no verifiable increase in yield or area
sown, although there was positive anecdotal evidence that modest yield increases have been observed
in areas where new varieties have been introduced. There was an apparent re-invigoration of the
private ginning industry, although 3 of the 5 privatized gins were still not operating. Other private
sector ginning companies have been able to operate without impediment.
15.        Although Cotton Development Officers have been appointed in 24 districts, they have no
funds for operation, and thus their impact is minimal. There has been a long delay by MOALD in
submitting the memorandum to Cabinet for the approval of the legal establishment of the CAK. Even
after Cabinet approval is obtained, it is foreseen that there may be further delay due to the requirement
for initial GOK funding of KSH 84 million to cover the first 5 years of CAK operation.
Restructuring the Sugar Sub-Sector
16.        The project financed technical assistance for (i) carrying out a Sugar sector restructuring
study;  (ii) preparing/implementing privatization/restructuring programs for 5 sugar factories
(Chemilil. Muharoni, Mumias, Nzoia and South Nyanza); and (iii) strengthening the regulatory
framework for the industry and developing the capacity of the Kenya Sugar Authority to fulfil its
functions.
17.        An International technical assistance team  comprising a Team  Leader, Sugar
Agronomist, Sugar Technologist, Sugar Marketing Specialist and Financial Specialist was recruited,
and performed satisfactorily. The primary task of this team was to conduct the Sugar Sector
Restructuring Study (SSRS). There were delays in concluding the SSRS due to late payment and
delays in review of the study by the inter-ministerial Technical Review Committee. An
Officer/Consultant (O/C) Sugar was recruited to work with the international consultants and to
provide follow-up action after the completion of the SSRS.
18.        No other planned implementation actions have so far been concluded. In particular, there
has been no divestiture of GOK shareholding in any of the five sugar factories it controls although
plans have been announced for the sale of Mumias and a minority shareholding in Chemelil. There has
been no Cabinet and GOK approval for an industry controlled Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA).
However, as a result of the SSRS recommendations, the management of three sugar factories has been
placed under performance based management contracts (PBMC) with competent firms.
19.        Apart from the conduct of the SSRS, and the improvements in productivity from the
PBMCs, there is as yet no actual sustainable impact from project activities. The divestiture of GOK
shareholding in the sugar industry has now been delayed more than 4 years (it is a covenant of the
loan agreement and was a key unmet condition of the cancelled Structural Adjustment Credit.), and
has also been subject to several policy reversals. Apart from Muniias and Chemelil, there are no clear
The wisdom of this request for GOK funding of CAK is questionable on two counts: (i) the limited fiscal capacityf GOK; and
(ii) GOK financing of CAK would inevitably allow effective Government control of an ostensibly industry-sponsored
organization.



5
statements concerning the other factories. GOK has not yet made a decision concerning the proposed
Sugar Policy, nor the restructuring of the KSA. The overall outcome of this component of the project
is unsatisfactory.
Developing the Oilseeds Sub-sector
20.        The design of this component focussed on the provision of technical assistance to
develop the oilseeds sub-sector through: (i) Establishing a legal, institutional and policy framework
for the sustainable development of the sub-sector; (ii) Formulating appropriate research programs and
extension to provide technological support to oilseed farmers; and (iii) Improving skills among key
personnel involved in oilseed research, extension and processing.
21.        Project actions have been implemented satisfactorily. The international firm appointed to
provide the medium term technical assistance (Farm Support Services, Pricing and Marketing,
Oilseeds Processing and Oilseeds Development) did so expeditiously, and the team perfonned
satisfactorily. An Officer/Consultant (0/C) Oilseeds was recruited locally to work with the
international consultants and to provide follow-up action after their work was completed.
22.        The project completed studies in the areas of Farm Support Services, Pricing and
Marketing, Oilseeds Processing and Oilseeds Development Policy. Key recommnendations included:
the adjustment of importation tariffs to favor importation of unprocessed oilseeds (rather than refined
oil); and the establishment of a stakeholder controlled Oilseeds Development Council (ODC) to
coordinate the development of the oilseeds sub-sector. The first recommendation has been adopted
and implemented by GOK; the second has not yet been approved by GOK but MOA has established a
task force and is in the process of preparing to take the necessary actions to establish the ODC.
23.        The impact of this component on production of oilseeds by farmers is as yet unclear.
Available figures indicate that area sown has remained static. The delays in establishing a stakeholder
controlled ODC essentially means that the institutional status quo has been maintained. This is an
unsatisfactory outcome of project interventions.
Developing the Cooperative Sub-Sector
24.        The project mainly supported technical assistance to review the existing legislation and
propose a framework in which cooperatives would be independent member-controlled organizations,
providing services to members in a liberalized economy. The technical assistance team also involved a
review of the strategic functions of the Ministry of Cooperative Development (MOCD), proposals for
its restructuring, and the implementation of these proposals. Some equipment was also provided.
25.        Even though there was general consensus on the need for policy reform in the
cooperative subsector at the beginning of the project, greater than expected time elapsed in formally
achieving change. At the time of appraisal, the background work was expected to be completed by
December 31, 1993, but it was not until August 1996 that a draft sessional paper had been prepared.
The reforms were formally adopted as policy through the Sessional Paper No 6 of 1997 "Cooperatives
in a Liberalized Economic Environment". The concepts contained in this policy were enacted under
the Cooperative Societies Act No 12 of 1997 and came into force on I June, 1998. A Cabinet
memorandum to seek approval for the restructuring of MOCD has been approved.
26.        In addition, the direct involvement of GOK in the education of cooperative staff and
managers has ceased by virtue of the introduction of the Cooperative College of Kenya Act, 1995.
This legislation transforms the college into an autonomous organization and, with cost sharing and
phased reduction of Government financial assistance, should move towards being self-supporting in
the medium term.



6
27.        The practical implementation of the structural and functional changes remains to be
completed. This will involve the changes in departmental and job functions within MOCD.
redeployment of Cooperative Officers, and an education exercise for members and cooperative staff as
to the implications and benefits of the reforms in this subsector. It is likely that this work program can
be handled over the next 12 months with the existing staff capacity and vithin the budgetary resoutces
available to MOCD.
28.        Given that the policy and legislation is in force that will provide the framework for the
redirection of the cooperative movement to make a contribution to the development of the agricultural
enterprises of over two million member farmers, and that the implementation is likely to proceed, this
component is judged to have a satisfactory outcome.
Institutional Strengthening/Capacity Building Component
29.        This component, which addressed the central objective of the project, had six sub-
components/main activities. These were: (i) Restructuring MOA; (ii) Strategic Studies; (iii) Critical
Operating Tasks; (iv) Privatization/Commercialization; (v) Monitoring and Management Information;
and (vi) Action Training. By far the most important of these sub-components is the re-structuring of
MOA, and most of the other sub-components were implemented in support of this objective. The
design of this component is appropriate for this ambitious task.
30.        An international finn provided the services of an Institutional Management Specialist
(IMS) for a total of 42 months, and an Action Training Specialist for 18 months. The service of the
latter specialist was reported to have been outstanding. However, the services provided by the IMS
were not of a standard comnnensurate with the requirements of the task. While he did provide some
useful input, it is apparent that the deficiencies of his effort contributed to delays in reaching intemnal
consensus on the restructuring of MOA.
31.        A full-time team of 5 locally recruited Officer Consultants provided expertise and
guidance for specific activities.
32.        Specific activities undertaken in the process of restructuring the MOA have included:
*  Exhaustive consultations, both within the Ministry, and with a wide range of sector
stakeholders, to agree on the Core Functions of the MOA;
*  A simultaneous process to identify functions to be commercialized and privatized;
*  Detailed analysis, discussion and negotiation which has led to the agreement for re-
structuring within the Ministry. A key feature of this is the unification of all
extension services. Another important reform is the merger of the Finance,
Accounting and Supplies Divisions;
*  A Staffing Normns Analysis (SNA) which has the potential, if implemented, to vary
the authorized staff of the MOA in line with its requirements when the full impact of
privatization of functions and streamlining of operations is implemented;
*  A Training Needs Assessment (TNA) which provides guidance for future staff
training in harmony with the SNA and the new structure.
33.        Specific activities conducted through the Strategic Studies sub-component have been:



7
*  Initially working on the proposals for the restructuring of the ministry and identifying
functions to be privatized;
*  Two studies covering the Ministry Skills Inventory and a review of the Ministry's
Project Cycle Management;
* Management of the Agricultural Services Pilot Project, which was an experiment to
test a private sector approach to provision of agricultural services with a potential
commercial orientation.
34.         Specific activities conducted through the Critical Operating Tasks sub-component have
been a review of accounting and supplies functions, and the establishment of a computerized and
updateable inventory of the Ministry's assets.
35.         The Privatization/Comnmercialization sub-component had the objectives of generating
plans for the privatization and commercialization of agricultural services, and facilitating the
establishment of a system of private sector commodities exchanges to develop a more open market for
agricultural commodities. Numerous workshops at all levels to sensitize stakeholders to the principles
and potential of privatization were conducted. as well as  the preparation of exit, entry and
maintenance plans for 16 sub-sectors in agriculture, training of officials to implement privatization
plans, and the generation of publicity in support ofprivatization of various functions.
36.         The main objectives of the Action Training sub-component were to strengthen the
capacity of the MOA to efficiently undertake its functions in the liberalized agricultural sector, and to
induce a commitment from sectoral stakeholders to the envisaged new role for the public sector in
agriculture. The main activities undertaken in support of these objectives were the implementation of a
long term post-graduate training program for 30 trainees, the provision of short term training for 85
trainees overseas and within the region and of short term specialist courses for 456 officers within the
country, the preparation of long-term training plans and the conduct of the SNA and TNA (see above).
37.         The Monitoring and Management Information sub-component had the main objectives
of providing MIS information for the project, and improving the MIS capacity within the Ministry.
This was carried out through the provision of expert MIS support to other components of the project
and the establishment of an expanded computer training program for the Ministry.
38.         There have been several factors that have substantially delayed the completion of
activities within this component and increased the risk that impact will be delayed or substantially
reduced. The main ones have been: (i) The high turnover of Ministers and Permanent Secretaries
within MOA during project implementation; (ii) the relatively poor performance of the IMS; (iii) the
protracted election environment in 1997; and (iv) the increasing focus on the preparation of the
proposed Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP) during the latter two years of project
implementation, which tended to shift implementation of key restructuring activities to outside the
project time frame.
39.         All of the important activities have been undertaken to date. Thepotential impact of this
component is substantial, if GOK actually carries out all the actions recommended in a reasonable
time frame. The actual impact of this component so far is very modest. There will be little long term
impact unless the new structure and role of the Ministry is adopted by GOK, MOA is in fact
restructured as proposed, the SNA is vigorously applied, the proposed procedural methods (especially
those relating to financial management and accountability) are actually applied, and the designated
non-public functions are privatized. Apart from the privatization of some dipping and Al activities,
none of these actions have so far been taken, and the impact of this component is contingent on
carrying through these actions. Some restructuring of the Ministry at the district level has taken place



8
in 1999, including the combining of agriculture and livestock departments at district level. However
impact is yet to be felt.
40.        An exogenous factor which is likely to have a substantial influence on the effectiveness
of MOA restructuring, is the level of salaries paid to Ministry officers. Although this is currently the
subject of a review through the Civil Service Reform Program (CSRP), it is nonetheless vital.
Restructuring without attendant improvements in pay and conditions would provide less than expected
benefits due to continued low staff morale. losses of trained staff to the private sector and incentives
for misappropriation.
Strengthening the Activities of Department of Resource Survevs and Remote Sensing (DRSRS)
41.        The Bank. in conjunction with other donors. has been supporting DRSRS since 1981.
ASMP II concentrated on maintaining the operations of the Department and upgrading some of its
capabilities in GIS. data analysis and information services. Estimated to cost US$ 5.2 million at
appraisal. this component was the second most costly area of support in ASMP I.
42.        ASMP ll support has helped DRSRS continue to improve its capabilities in land.
agriculture, livestock and wildlife informnation. and can be regarded as a centre of high competence in
its area of work. The project's support has had an impact both on the quality and usefulness of the
information generated and on the planning capacity of DRSRS itself
43.        One of the main objectives of the detailed management study financed by the project
was to assess scenarios for the future roles. structures and methods of operation of the Department, in
the light of the necessity to become more user-oriented., more cost effective, and more efficient with
limited resources. The study was to examine options for cost recovery for its services. The Study
provided valuable recommendations on the restructuring of DRSRS into a self-regulating Institute
which would work towards functioning on a commercial basis, albeit with Government and donor
support. Adopting these recommendations. DRSRS has prepared proposals for restructuring and
budgets for continuing operations from July 1998 onwards, but these remain as proposals only.
44.        ASMP 11 support has had a satisfactory impact on the continuation and improvement in
the activities of DRSRS. but its future is uncertain. A long period (two to three years) would be
required to implement the proposed structural changes. With the closure of ASMP II, DRSRS is likely
to face financial constraints. particularly in aerial services. The sustainability of all information
services at the current high level of quality is dependent on funding near current levels. The immediate
challenge will be for DRSRS to explore and implement cost recovery/sharing options with users and
to reassess expenditure priorities within the available resources.
NEAP Preparation and Implementation Component
45.        As part of the project's overall objectives of improving the management of Kenya's
physical and natural resources, the preparation and implementation of a National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP) was aimed at ensuring that environmental considerations were brought into the
policy and planning activities of Government, and that there existed an institutional framework for
environmental management The project financed the costs of the preparation of the NEAP including
the costs of the NEAP coordinator and the working groups, and technical assistance for undertaking
the various studies required. These studies included an Institutional Framework Study for
Environmental Management and a training needs assessment for the environment sector. In addition,
the project assisted in the preparation of Environmental Impact Assessment guidelines.



9
46.        The NEAP was prepared in accordance with the timetable expected at appraisal and was
adopted by Government in July, 1994. A Sessional Paper on Environment and Development defining
Government policy has been prepared. The NEAP called for legislation to ensure the coordination and
enforcement of environment policy and management, and a draft Bill was prepared and circulated to
all areas of Government, Universities and other interested stakeholders. A final Bill, the
Environmental Management and Coordination Bill was signed by the then Minister of Environment
and Natural Resources in December. 1997. Following the elections at the end of 1997, a new Ministry
of Environmental Conservation was established.
47.        The Bill envisages the establishment of a National Environmental Management Agency
(NEMA) but this cannot be established and begin to take responsibilities for environmental affairs
until the supporting legislation is in place. This in turn is holding up any enforcement of
environmental assessment or monitoring.
48.        It is likely that the Bill will be passed by the Government thereby creating the NEMA.
Successful implementation will depend on the allocation of sufficient resources to NEMA to ensure
the effectiveness of its operations. and to carry out the remaining essential capacity building activities
(implementation of training progran. outreach program. determination of environmental standards
and investiment program). At this stage. this is uncertain.
49.        At the closure of the project. whilst substantial progress has been made on the policy
aspects. there has been no impact in tenrms of the development objectives of the project since the
implementation process is stalled. If the legislation is enacted and sufficient resources are made
available to NEMA lor continuing the implementation process. this component has the potential to
have a satisfactory outcome in the next 12 to 18 months.
Project Costs and Financing
50.        The costs of the project were estimated at US$ 21.5 million, of which US$ 19.4million
was to be financed by the IDA credit and the remaining US$2.1 million by GOK. Actual project costs
amounted to approximately US$ 15.33 million, US$ 14.21 from the IDA credit and US$1.2 from
GOK. Approximately US$ 8.9 million and US$2.5 million was disbursed for technical assistance and
training respectively. In general. the amount disbursed on each of the components was less than that
estimated. mainly due to overall budget ceilings set by the Ministry of Finance irrespective of the
source of the funds.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
51.        The major factors that affected the implementation and the impact of the project were:
*  The ambivalent political commitment to the reform process. This was exacerbated
by three changes of Ministers and Permanent Secretaries during the project's life,
resulting in implementation delays as each needed to be informed of and become
committed to the project's objectives.
*  The election of 1997 effectively stalled policy formulation, adoption and action
during the period July 1997 to January 1998.
*  The budget ceilings that restricted some activities at the latter stages of the project.
*  There was a serious under-estimation of the time required for the reform process to
result in action on the part of GOK. This proved to be far longer than the timetable
under which the project was operating. Implementing the reforms could only begin



10
when decisions had been made by Government, and the increasing politicization of
the reform process prevented this from happening.
D. SUSTAINABILITY
52.        Cotton Sub-Sector. The privatization of the ginneries is likely to lead to a sustainable
improvement in ginning capacity, although three of the five privatized ginneries were not operating at
the closure of the project. It seems unlikely that the Cotton Board will be revived. At present, it is
questionable as to whether there will be any sustainable impact from new cotton varieties, the new
research program or the establishment of the CAK. None of these activities is yet established on a
sustainable basis.
53.        Sugar Sub-Sector. As there has not been any divestiture of GOK shareholding in the
industry, it is not possible to gauge the sustainability of likely impact. So far, there is no indication of
improvement in yields or the financial viability of the industry as a whole.
54.        Oilseeds Sub-Sector.      The decision to alter the tariff structure to promote the
importation of oilseeds rather than edible oil will, if kept in place, lead to a sustainable increase in oil
milling capacity utilisation. It is reasonable to expect that this will lead to a sustainable improvement
in farm production of oilseeds. If the proposed ODC is established, it would enhance the positive
effect of the tariff reform.
55.        Cooperative Sub-Sector. The new policy and legislation is now in force as a direct
result of project interventions. This is likely to produce a sustained positive impact on the ability of
the cooperative movement to make a contribution to the development of the agricultural enterprises.
56.        Institutional Strengthening/Capacity Building. If GOK actually carries out all the
actions recommended in a reasonable time frame, there is a possibility of a sustained positive impact.
As GOK has just commenced the implementation of these actions, there remains substantial
uncertainty. Moreover, unless institutional reform is accompanied by improvements in pay and
conditions for MOA civil servants, any positive impact is likely to prove to be transitory.
57.        Strengthening DRSRS. The impact of this component is unlikely to be sustained,
unless a further three years of financing at current levels can be obtained, to allow time for
implementation of recommended structural and policy changes.
58.        NEAP Component. A sustained positive impact from this component is dependent on
the proposed legislation being enacted and sufficient resources made available to NEMA for
continuing the implementation process. At this stage, this is uncertain.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
59.        Bank performance was generally satisfactory. Bank staff were diligent in their efforts
through design, appraisal and supervision. The presence of the same Task Manager throughout project
preparation and implementation assisted with the development of a consistent relationship with the
Borrower. The failure on the part of GOK to complete agreed actions on time was continually
addressed by supervision missions. In addition, in order to highlight the importance of the reform
program, some of the restructuring and privatization actions anticipated under ASMP II were brought
into the broader dialogue between the Bank and GOK as actions under the Structural Adjustmnent
Credit (Cr 2884-KE). Nevertheless, the project failed to bring about the major reforms anticipated,
and this suggests perhaps that, although the project was a relatively large scale endorsement, in cost
terms, of the Government's stated reform program, it was still not sufficient leverage to maintain the
Government's conmditmnent. Whilst the SAR recognized the major risk of lack of commitment of



11
GOK to the reform program, the SAR under-estimated the time-frame and difficulty of achieving
major institutional and operational reforms within the MOA.  In addition, supervision effort
maintained the attitude that government would follow through with the needed actions, and continued
to rate the project satisfactory, in both implementation performance and development impact. The
major impact of the project has yet to be seen.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
60.        The Borrower performance in implementation of most project activities was satisfactory.
Analytical work carried out was of high quality and will prove to be a valuable resource to
government. However, progress in translating work done under the project into actions to move the
reform and restructuring process forward was unsatisfactory and this is the main factor which
negatively influenced the project's outcome. Some important covenants contained in the development
credit agreement, most notably the commitment to divestiture of GOK holdings in the sugar industry,
and the agreement to establish the ODC, have not been complied with.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
61.       As mentioned above, all of the important project outputs in each of the sectors have been
completed satisfactorily. The potential impact of the project is substantial, but the actual impact of the
project so far is very modest. The outcome of the project is contingent on what happens following the
project's closure. Given that the experience of the project shows that it takes a long time to implement
major reforms, both within line Ministries and within the civil service in general, the future progress
of the project's thrust is uncertain. Nevertheless, the project design clearly envisaged reform and
improved efficiency to be achieved in the major agricultural subsectors and in overall sector
management as a result of project activities within the time frame of the project. In most cases, this
has not yet been achieved. Therefore, irrespective of the valuable contribution that the project made in
providing guidance to the Government concerning reforms in' the agricultural sector, at the time of
project completion, the project must be considered to have an unsatisfactory outcome.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
62.        Several important reforms are yet to be carried out. Many of these were shifted to the
proposed IDA financed ASIP. As this has now been indefinitely delayed, these reforms are contingent
on GOK action without IDA support. GOK has given verbal assurances that it is committed to the
reforms, and that they will be carried out. If that proves to be the case, then the future operations of the
MOA are likely to be substantially enhanced, thus establishing the major pre-requisite for the
successful implementation of ASIP, and probably substantially improving conditions for enhanced
agricultural productivity and financial viability. Until the reforns are substantially implemented, there
is little prospect of enhanced operational efficiency and effectiveness from the MOA. Should the
recommended reforms be implemented, the project's performance rating could be adjusted upwards.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED.
63.        The key lessons learned from the implementation of the ASMP II are:
The implementation of major institutional reforms is a lengthy, complex and
politically sensitive process, with substantial financial implications. A phased
approach, adjustment lending, capacity/institution building, then sector investment
lending has been applied in the Kenyan context over the last fifteen years. The speed
of reform is very sensitive to the level of commitment, and this is both difficult to



12
measure, and is subject to change during the process. The lesson learned is that in
designing projects which are expected to induce institutional reform, a phased,
realistic implementation time frame which can adjust to changes in government will
and commitment should be given.
*  In the process of inducing reform, technical assistance can be effective in providing
analysis and guidance to Government. However. the actual implementation of
genuine reform depends on clear commitment to action from Government and other
stakeholders. Conditionalities have not worked, and strengthening policy/analytical
capacity has not yielded the intended impact in an environment in which all aspects
of the reform process are politicized.
*  The complexity of agro-industrial reform, particularly in the sugar industry, was
under-estimated at appraisal. There were technical, financial. industry policy and
political factors which have caused the delay in reforms to this sub-sector. The
lesson is that planning the reform of such industries requires stronger government
commitment and the participation of key stakeholders.
*  Progress towards the implementation of the key reforms under ASMP 11 is
considered to be a prerequisite to the successful implementation of ASIP, and should
not be included as actions during the implementation of ASIP.



13
PART Il: STATISTICALTABLES
TABLES
I. Summary of Assessment
2. Related Bank Loans/Credit
3. Project Timetable
4. Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ millions)
5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
6. Key Indicators for Project Operation
7. Studies Included in Project
8A. Project Costs
8B. Project Financing
9. Economic Costs and Benefits
10. Status of Legal Covenants
11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
12. Bank Resources: Staff Input
13. Bank Resources: Missions



14
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives   Substantial   Partial  Negligibi    Not
(1fi/)     (/)        e      Applicable
(/)        (v')
Macro policies                  l                    l         El F
Sector policies               El                   El          El
Financial objectives         El         El         El
Institutional development     El        Ei                    El
Physical objectives           El                   El          El
Poverty reduction             El        El         F7          El
Gender issues                 El        E          LI         E
Other social objectives       ElEl                 El 7c
Environmental objectives     |                     EJ         El
Public sector management      El                   FI          ElI
Private sector development    E                    El          ElI
Other (specify)               El        L          El          Oll
B. Project sustainability      Likely    Unlikely  Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank performance        Satisfactory Satisfactor Deficient
(/)         Y        (e/)
(1)
Identification              El                   El:



15
Preparation assistance    F          [          F:
Appraisal                 [I7                   [II
Supervision                                     K 1  F



16
Highly
D. Borrower performance       satisfactory Satisfactor  Deficient
(Vt)        Y         (/)
(V)
Preparation                 EC         LI         L
Implementation              L          L          [3
Covenant compliance                               F [  L
Operation (if applicable)   FI         L          [I]
Highly                                Highly
E. Assessment of outcome     satisfacto2y  Satisfactory Unsatisfactory unsatisfactory
LI      [~FI         I  ILFI



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title      Purpose         Year of approval        Status
Preceding
operations
Agricultural        Strengthen Govt    1982                Completed
Technical Assistance  capability to plan
Project (ATAP - Cr   and implement
1277-KE)           policy, improve
management and
budgeting in key
Ministries, and key
parastatals.
First Agricultural  Further            1986                Completed
Sector Management  strengthening of
Project (ASMP I - Cr capacity of public
1718-KE)           sector to deliver key
services and
formulate
agricultural policy.
First Agricultural  Support to structural  1986            Completed
Sector Adjustment   reform program
Operation (ASAO -
Cr 1717-KE)
Second Agricultural  Support to structural  1991           Completed
Sector Adjustment   reform program
Operation (ASAO II
- Cr 2204-KE)
Following
operations
Proposed support to                                        At appraisal stages.
Agricultural Sector
Investment Program
(ASIP).



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           Date planned         Date actual/
Latest estimate
Identification                           N/A               n/a
Preparation                              N/A               1991
Appraisal                                N/A               April-July, 1992
Negotiations                             N/A               November 1992
Board presentation                       N/A               December 15, 1992
Signing                                  N/A               March 11, 1993
Effectiveness                            N/A               September 29, 1993
Midterm review (if applicable)           January 1995      October 1996
Project completion                       December 3 1,     June 30, 1998
1997
Loan closing                             December 31,      June 30, 1998
1997
N/A - Not Available
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY93     FY94         FY95  FY96         FY97    FY98    FY99
Appraisal estimate       0.50     4.00          8.00   13.00      18.00    19.40
Actual                   0.0       1.27         4.19   7.45       11.30    13.09    14.12
Actual as % of estimate    0%     32%          52%      57%       63%      67%       0%yo
Date of final
disbursement
November 9, 1998



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Component                         Indicator/Action                 Original Date for          Status
Completion
Cotton Subsector        (i) Review and anend cotton legislation         June, 1994          Act Reviewed
Component                                                                                   No legislation
anendment
(ii) Formulate privatization plans tbr ginneries  June, 1994       Completed
(iii) Establish seed cotton classiying system and  June, 1994      Recommendations
install HVI equipment                                             nmade, not implemenited
(iv) Bring six ginneries to point of sale      June, 1995          Completed
(v) Complete privatization of 3 ginneries      June, 1995          Six gimlueries sold
(vi) Operationalize lint marketing procedures  June, 1995          Now not applicable
(vii) Establish and equip classitfying laboratory  June, 1995      Now not applicable
(viii) Establish suitable grades for classitfying cotton   June, 1995  Now not applicable
(ix) Formulate a proposal to establish a seed  June, 1995          Completed
production system
(x) Formulate a research progran tbr cotton    June, 1995          Completed
(xi) Establish a structure for cotton extension  June, 1995        Completed
(xii) Operationalize a research program in cotton  June, 1996      Not Completed
Sugar Subsector         (i) Complete preparation of a divestiture plan for  June, 1994      Not Completed
Component                sugar factories
(ii) Complete divestiture of two sugar factories  June, 1996       Not Completed
(iii) Complete review of the roles of KSA and KNTC  June, 1994     Completed
and formulate restructuring/reorganizing options
(iv) Restructure/reorganize KSA and KNTC       June, 1995          Not Completed
(v) Complete divestiture of balance sugar factories    N/s         Not Completed
Oilseed Subsector        (i) Complete study on the economies of the oilseeds   June, 1994   Completed
Component               sub-sector
(ii) C(omplete dratling of the legislation for the  June, 1994     Not Completed
oilseeds subsector and establish the ODC
(iii) C'omplete preparation of the training program for June, 1994  Completed
the oilseed subsector
Cooperatives Sub-       (i) Complete the studies on the Cooperative sub-  June, 1994        Completed
compoment                sector
(ii) Discuss and agree with IDA on a plan to  June, 1995           Completed
restructure the role of MOCD
Institutional Strengthening  (i) I'repare a detailed training pmgram    N/s                 Completed
Component
(ii) Conplete the preparation of design of the new  June, 1994     Completed (but not yet
role and functions of MOALDM:                                      implemented)
first Dram1
final Draft
DRSRS Component          (i) Have work program endorsed by DRSRS Steering  June, 1994       Completed
Cornnittee
(ii) Complete management study                 June, 1994          Completed
Neap Component           (i) Finalize NEAP and present to Govemrent     June, 1995          Completed
___   (ii) Government endorsement of NEAP              June, 1996          Cornpleted



20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.   Key operating
indicators in                           Estimated                           Actual
SAR/President's Report
Not Applicable                     Not Applicable                    Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defuied
Study               at appraisalredefined             Status              Impact of study
I.Sugar Sector            Initiate policy anud         Study completed         Partial
Restructuring Study      institutional reforms aimed
at stimulating the sector
2. Study on               Identifyv and propose        Completod                Substantial
Cooperatives Legislation   clhaniges in the Cooperatives
Act
3. Study on the transfer    Strategy anid plan for chanige   Study completed    Partial; to be
of functions to          process                                               implemlented
Cooperative Movement po
From MOCD
4. Study on MOCD          Plan for a restructured      Completed                Nil; not yet
rationalization           MOCD                                                  implemiieited.
5. Management study of   Exaniiie the role and         Completed                Partial.
DRSRS                     sustainability of DRSRS
services
6. Srateic Sudie in Staftinig Normss A-nalysis to  Comipleted            Partial, niot yet
6. Strategic Studies in  identify the staff requirements                       impleneiited.
MOA                       of the MOA in line with its
requiiremenits uLider the full
imipact ot privatization of
flunctionis and streamlining of
operations; Training Needs
Assessment (TNA) to provide
guidance tbr future staff
training in harmony with the
SNA and the new structure;
proposals tor the restructuring
of the ministry and identifying
utinctions to be privatized; the
Ministry Skills Inventory and a
review of the Ministry's
Project Cycle Management.



21
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign     Total        Local      Foreign      Total
Costs       costs                  Costs       costs
Item
Cotton               0.03        1.77    1.81                                1.5
Subsector
Sugar                0.52        1.18    1.70                                1.0
Subsector
Oilseeds             1.50        1.45    2.96                                0.7
Subsector
Cooperatives         0.10        0.15    0.25                               0.22
Subsector
MOALD                4.12        2.75    6.87                               6.31
Institutional
Strengthenin
g
DRSRS                2.08        3.63    5.71                               4.20
NEAP                 1.88        .33    2.21                                1.40
TOTAL              10.23       11.27   21.50         N/a         N/a       15.33
N/a - not available



22
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign   Total         Local      Foreign  otal
costs     Costs                  costs       Costs
Source
IDA                        8.1       11.3      19.4                               14.12
Domestic contribution      2.1        -         2.1                                1.21
TOTAL                     10.2       11.3      21.5         N/a        N/a        15.33
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
An analysis of the economic costs and benefits was not undertaken at appraisal and an economic
rate of return was not applicable.



23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Kenya
Second Agricultural Sector Management Project
Original    Revised
Covenant type Present  fulfillment  fulfillment         Desription of
Agreement  Section                 status      date        date                Covenant              Conmments
DCA           3.03 (a) M            CD       December                 'lle B3orruwer shall, not later than  Cotton |
31, 1993                December 31, 1993 restnicture the Board has
Cottoni Board with greater industry become
participation.                  moribund.
DCA           3.03 (b) M                     June 30,                 Not later than Jiune 30, 1994, have  Complied
1994                    privatized at least three of CB's    with delay.
cotton ginneries and privatized or
brought to the point of salC the
remaining three CB ginneries.
DCA           3.04    M                      December                 Thle Bornxwer shall, niot later than  Privati7zati
31, 1994                December31 , 1994, tillowing the on prcess
completion of the SSRS, carry out not
the privatization plan fbr the sugar completed.
industry, in a manner satisfactory
to the Association which shall
include, by December 31, 1994,
privatizing two sugar tactories and
privatizing or bringing to thie point
of sale the remaining.sugar
factories.
DCA           3.05    M                      December                 The Borrower shall, not later than  Not
31, 1993                December 31, 1993, (a) establish   established
the Oilseeds Development        by the end
Council, with terms of referelce   of the
satistactory to the Association; and project.
(b) establish a mechanism
satisfactory to the Association to
enable ODC to be self-sustaining.
DCA           3.06    M                      December                 The Borr wer shall on completion  Complied
31, 1993                ofthe studies on the cooperative    withi.
sector referred to in Part D of the
project, but in any case not later
than December 31, 1993, discuss
and reach agreement with thel
Association on an action plan to
implement the recommendations
of such studies
DCA           4.01 (b) F            C        -                        Financial covenants, records and   Generally
and (c)                                                 accounts                        complied
withi.
M = Management
F = Financial



24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Basically, there was compliance with the
applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
| Stage of                Planned               Revised             Actual" 
Project cycle                                        .                           l
Weeks       US$       Weeks      US$      Weeks    US$
Preparation           N/A        N/A        N/A        N/A    98.1      246,000l
/Appraisal/Board
Approval                                                                         l
Supervision           N/A        N/A        N/A        N/A    122.1    324,800
Completion                                                 -  8.1       34,700
TOTAL                                                     -  228.3    608,500
I/ Include travel costs (Direct Cost Only)
N/A= Not available not recorded in thc FACT System.



25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perlormance Tatinm
Stage of                       Number                   Specialized      Iniplemen-       Develop-
Project cycle        Month'         o/       Days m       Statfskills        tation          ment          Types of
|  Year                 hldpersons    Represented      Status        objectives     problems
Through appraisal /1   April-July.       13         N a     Econ, Cotton.          N a             N a
1992                                Sugar, Oilseeds,
Inst. Env. Leg,
FA
Appraisal through
Board approval
1. Supervision         April, 1994       4          N:a     Econ, FA. Pr)c.         s       S                     Nil 
Ecol
2. Supervision         Feb.March,         I         N a     Econ                    S               s           F:, Imp)   |
1995                                                                                     D)Clay
3. Supervision         Octoler,           4         N-a     Econ, FA. Proc.         s       S                  Ilp) Delay
1995                                Ecol
4. Mid-term  Review    September,         7         N/a     Ecol, Ops,              s               S          Ip D)elay
1996                                Econ, Mgnt.
FA. Ext, Proc
5. Supervision          May. 1997         3          It)    Iriv, Inst. Econ        S               S           PC. hImp |
D)elay
Completion /i          June, 1998         2          12     I .con. Ag         S (marginal)    S (marginal)
/1 Undertaken by FAO/CP.
Econ= Economist
Cotton = Cotton Industry Specialist
Sugar = Sugar Industry Speciailist
Oilseeds = Oilseeds Industry Specialist
Ag = Agriculturalist
FA= Financial Analyst
Ops = Operations Specialist
Mgmt = Management Specialist
Piiv = Privatization Specialist
Proc = Procurement
Inst  Institutions Specialist
Ecol = Ecologist
Env = Environmental Specialist
Leg = Legal All'airs Specialist
Imp Delay = Implemcntation l)elays
FC = Financial Covenants



26
APPENDIX A
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP 11)
MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE



27
FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION
OF THE UNITED NATIONS
Investment Center Division
KENYA: Second Agricultural Sector Management Project (ASMP 11)
(Cr. 2445-KE)
Implementation Completion Report - Aide-memoire
I.  A missionI from the FAO Investment Center visited Kenya firom I st to 12th June
1998 to prepare the Implementation Completion Report for the Second Agricultural
Sector Management Project (ASMP 11) under the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program. The mission held discussions with Bank and Govemnment of Kenya staff
associated with the project, including those responsible for the implementation of the
project in the Ministries of Agriculture, Environment and Conservation, Cooperative
Development and Planning and National Development. The mission worked closely with
the staff of the ASMP II Project Management Unit.
2.  A wrap-up discussion was held on I 1 th June, chaired by the Permanent Secretaiy,
Ministry of Agriculture, with staff firom the various Government agencies that had been
involved in the implementation of the project and an officer of the World Bank Resident
Mission who has been involved in the supervision of the project. This aide-memoire is a
record of the missions findings and conclusions.
3.  The mission would like to r ecord its appreciation for the cooperation and assistance
shown by all officers and staff of the Government with whom the mission has been
working.
A.. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES.
4.  The main objectives of the project were to: (i) develop key agricultural sub-sectors
by fostering greater private sector investment, (ii) reform the cooperative sector to make
cooperatives more efficient and r esponsive to member needs; (iii) increase the overall
efficiency of MOA and MOLD (amalgamated into MOA after the start of the project) by
riationalizing their r ole, structure and strategic functions; and (iv) ensure the sustainable
use of Kenya's physical resouirces by strengthening the capability in Government to factor
in the impact on the environment of agricultural programs and policy initiatives.
5.  These objectives were to be achieved through seven main components: (a)
developing the cotton subsector; (b) r estructuling the sugar subsector; (c) developing the
oilseeds subsector, (d) r estructuring the cooperatives subsector; (e) developing the
capacity of the then MOA and MOLD; (f) strengthening DRSRS; and (g) developing the
institutional capacity to prepare and implement a NEAP.
6.  The project's objectives were appropriate and supported the Government's stated
policy of making a major shift in public sector involvement in the agriculture sector,



28
whilst at the same time creating an enabling environment for private sector participation.
The project was ambitious, given the relatively short period of time (4 years) in which
such a major overhaul of deeply entrenched functions and work practices was to be
carried out, particularly as a major risk identified at appraisal was unsustained and
fragmented Government commitment to this process.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES.
7.           Whilst there has been a major shift towards private sector ownership in
the cotton subsector, little change in the sugar subsector has resulted. There has been a
change in tariffs affecting the oilseed sector, but impact is not yet apparent. There has
been progress in reforming the cooperatives subsector but it still too early to gauge the
project's impact since the legislation came into force on June 1 1998. There has been no
increase in the overall efficiency of MOA since the process of implementing the
restructuring has only just stailted. Whilst there has been an improvement in natural
resource information, no institutional structure for environmental management and
coordination is in place. Therefore, the project has partly achieved its objectives but the
main one, improved management and efficiency of MOA, has not yet been achieved.



29
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT.
General
8.  In general, the implementation of the project has been satisfactory. Whilst there
were delays in the start-up of the project's activities, the project's outputs were completed
and generally were of a high standard. The establishment of a Project Management Unit
is considered to have been the appropriate mechanism for the coordination of the project's
activities, but the question of salaiy levels for project staff different fi-om those of
Ministry staff did create some difficulties in working relationships with the Ministry.
Project funds were limited by overall Ministry of Finance budget ceilings which resulted
in only US$ 13 million of the US$ 19 million anticipated under the credit being
disbursed.
9.  Preparations for the Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP) were a major
activity undertaken in parallel with ASMP II. The pre-appraisal for ASIP was undertaken
simultaneously with the MTR of ASMP 11, and its appraisal took place during April
1998, prior to ASMP closure. It was originally expected that ASIP would commence
almost immediately after the closure of ASMP 11.
10. During the last two years, the implementation of ASMP I1 and the processing of
ASIP became increasingly merged. Originally, reforms to be carried out under ASMP 11
were regarded as necessary steps to achieving its objectives - when ASMP 11 stalted, no
ASIP had been anticipated. At the mid-term review, these reforms were then expected to
provide a basis for ASIP implementation. However, as these reforms were further
delayed, the reforms themselves were taken on as activities to be achieved under ASIP.
This particularly applies to the reforms to the structure and modus operandi of the MOA,
and the reform of the Sugar sub-sector. However, as the implementation of the IDA
supported activities under ASIP has now been indefinitely delayed, the future of these
reforms is now uncertain, and will depend on identifying sources of external financial or
technical support.
I I. The original expected date of closing of the project was 31 st December, 1997 with
the date for completion of project activities 30th June, 1997. Following a request from
GOK, the project was extended to June 30, 1998.
Developing the Cotton Sub-sector
12. The design of this component focussed on legal and institutional reform, and
applied research and extension. Given the previous poor performance of the Cotton
Board and the government owned gins, this was been a satisfactory approach to creating
an enabling environment for cotton producers and processors. However, the initial
proposal to restructure the Cotton Board has been found to be inappropriate.
13. Project actions have been implemented satisfactorily. The international firm
appointed to provide a the medium term TA (Cotton Breeder, Cotton Research Scientist
and Cotton Extension Specialist) did so expeditiously. The same firm also provided
short-term Cotton Processing, Cooperatives and Legal Specialists. The TA performed



30
satisfactorily. An Officer/Consultant (O/C) Cotton was recruited locally to work with the
international consultants and to provide follow-up action after their work was completed.
14. The main activities completed in this sub-sector have been:
* Legal and Institutional Framework;
*  The Cotton Act has been reviewed, with a report submitted to GOK and
stakeholders;
* A Cabinet Memorandum, recommending the establishment of the industiy
controlled; and
* Cotton Association of Kenya (CAK), has been prepared and submitted.
15. In the meantime, the Cotton Board has ceased activities and has become moribund.
It has been recommended that day-to-day management of cotton Cooperatives be
transferred from Ministry of Cooperative Development to cooperative members under the
new cooperative legislation. A report detailing workable recommendations on cotton
processing and marketing has been produced. Plans have been developed for the
implementation of the main recommendations.
16. In the area of technological support for cotton production, two new improved cotton
varieties have been produced, and seed multiplication and distribution to farmers has
commenced. A report detailing a cotton research program has been prepared and
accepted, and a report detailing actions to revitalize cotton extension has also been
prepared and accepted. Cotton Development Officers (CDOs) have been appointed in 24
districts.
17. However, many key actions identified at appraisal remain outstanding. These are:
*  Amend cotton legislation to allow for formal closure of the Cotton Board
and establishment of the  CAK;
*  Fully operationalize the extension service to farmers,
*  Commence the agreed cotton research program;
*  Establish a private seed production system using the new varieties;
*  Implement the cotton grading system; and
*  Operationalize lint marketing procedures.
18. Despite the satisfactory implementation of project actions, overall impact remains
unsatisfactory. As yet, there is no verifiable increase in yield or area sown, although
there is positive anecdotal evidence that modest yield increases have been obselved in
areas where new varieties have been introduced. There has been an apparent re-
invigoration of the private ginning industry, although 3 of the 5 privatized gins are still
not operating. Other private sector ginning companies have been able to operate without
impediment.
19.         The moribund Cotton Board has accumulated debts of some KSH 350
million, and there is no known attempt to liquidate the debt and close the board. Although
Cotton Development Officers have been appointed in 24 districts, they have no funds for



31
operation, and thus their impact is minimal. There has been a long delay in by MOALD
in submitting the memorandum to Cabinet for the approval for the legal establishment of
the CAK. Even after Cabinet approval is obtained, it is foreseen that there may be further
delay due to the requirement for initial GOK funding of KSH 84 million to cover the first
5 years of CAK operation. The wisdom of this request for GOK funding of CAK is
questionable on two counts: (i) the limited fiscal capacity of GOK; and (ii) GOK
financing of CAK would inevitably allow effective Government control of an ostensibly
industry organization.
Restructuring the Sugar Sub-Sector
20. The project financed TA for (i) canrying out a Sugar sector restructuring study; (ii)
preparing/implementing privatization/restructuring programs for 4 sugar factories; and
(iii) strengthening the regulatory framework for the industry and developing the capacity
of the Kenya Sugar Authority to fulfil its functions. Mumias was later included in the
program.
21. An International TA team comprising a Team Leader, Sugar Agronomist, Sugar
Technologist, Sugar Marketing specialist and Financial Specialist was recruited, and
performed satisfactorily. The primary task of this team was to conduct the Sugar Sector
Restructuring Study (SSRS). There were delays in concluding the SSRS due to payment
delays and delays in review of the study by the inter-ministerial Technical Review
Committee. The services provided by the international team were judged to be
satisfactory. An Officer/Consultant (0/C) Sugar was recruited to work with the
international consultants and to provide follow-up action after the completion of the
SSRS.
22. No other planned implementation actions have so far been concluded. In particular,
there has as yet been no divestiture of GOK shareholding in any of the five sugar
factories it controls although plans have been announced for the sale of Mumias and a
minority shareholding in Chemelil. There has been no Cabinet and GOK approval for an
industry controlled Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA). However, as a result of the SSRS
recommendations, the management of three sugar factories has been placed under
performance based management contracts (PBMC) with competent firms.
23. Apart from the conduct of the SSRS, and the improvements in productivity from the
PBMCs, there is as yet no actual sustainable impact from project activities. The
divestiture of GOK shareholding in the sugar industry has now been delayed more than 4
years (it is a covenant of the loan agreement), and has also been subject to several policy
reversals. Apart fiom Mumias and Chemelil, there are no clear statements concerning the
other factories. GOK has not yet made a decision concerning the proposed Sugar Policy,
nor the restructuring of the KSA. The overall outcome of this component of the project is
unsatisfactory.
Developing the Oilseeds Sub-sector
24. The design of this component focussed on the provision of TA to develop the
oilseeds sub-sector through: (i) Establishing a legal, institutional and policy framework



32
for the sustainable development of the sub-sector; (ii) Formulating appropriate research
programs and extension to provide technological support to oilseed farmers, and (iii)
Improving skills among key personnel involved in oilseed research, extension and
processing.
25. Project actions have been implemented satisfactorily. The intemational firm
appointed to provide the medium term TA (Farm Support Services, Pricing and
Marketing, Oilseeds Processing and Oilseeds Development) did so expeditiously. The TA
performed satisfactorily. An Officer/Consultant (O/C) Oilseeds was recruited locally to
work with the international consultants and to provide follow-up action after their work
was completed.
26. The project completed studies in the areas of Farm Support Services, Pricing and
Marketing, Oilseeds Processing and Oilseeds Development Policy. Key
recommendations included: the adjustment of importation tariffs to favor importation of
unprocessed oilseeds (rather than r efined oil); and the establishment of an stakeholder
controlled Oilseeds Development Council (ODC) to coordinate the development of the
oilseeds sub-sector. The first recommendation has been adopted and implemented by
GOK; the second has not yet been approved by GOK but MOA has established a task
force and is in the process of preparing to take the necessary actions to establish the
ODC.
27. The impact of this component on production of oilseeds by farmers is as yet
unclear. Available figures indicate that area sown has remained static. The delays in
establishing a stakeholder controlled ODC essentially means that the institutional status
quo has been maintained. This is an unsatisfactoly outcome of project interventions.
Developing the Cooperative Sub-Sector
28. The project mainly supported technical assistance to review the existing legislation
and propose a framework in which cooperatives would be independent member-
controlled organizations, providing services to members in a liberalized economy. The
TA also involved a review of the strategic functions of Ministry of Cooperative
Development (MOCD), proposals for its restructuring, and the implementation of these
proposals. Some equipment was also provided.
29. Even though there was general consensus for policy reform in the cooperative
subsector at the beginning of the project, greater than expected time elapsed in formally
achieving change. At the time of appraisal, the background work was expected to be
completed by 3 1 December, 1993, but it wasn't until August 1996 that a draft sessional
paper had been prepared. The reforms were formally adopted as policy through the
Sessional Paper No 6 of 1997 "Cooperatives in a Liberalized Economic Environment".
The concepts contained in this policy were legislated under the Cooperative Societies Act
No 12 of 1997 and came into force on I June, 1998. A Cabinet memorandum to seek
approval for the restructuring of MOCD has been approved.
30. In addition, the direct involvement of GOK in the education of cooperative staff and
managers has ceased by virtue of the introduction of the Cooperative College of Kenya



33
Act, 1995. This legislation transforms the college into an autonomous organization and,
with cost sharing and phased reducing Government financial assistance, should move
towards being self-supporting in the medium term.
31. The practical implementation of the structural and functional changes remain to be
completed. This will involve the changes in departmental and job functions within
MOCD, redeployment of Cooperative Officers, and an education exercise for members
and cooperative staff as to the implications and benefits of the reforms in this subsector.
It is likely that this work program can be handled over the next 12 months with the
existing staff capacity and within the budgetary resources available to MOCD.
32. Given that the policy and legislation is in force that will provide the framework for
the redirection of the cooperative movement to make a contribution to the development
of the agricultural enterprises of over two million member farmers, and that the
implementation is likely to proceed, this component is judged to have a satisfactoiy
outcome.



34
Institutional Strengthening/Capacity Building Component
33. This component, which addressed the central objective of the project, had six sub-
components/main activities. These were: (i) Restructuring the MOA; (ii) Strategic
Studies; (iii) Critical Operating Tasks; (iv) Privatization/Commercialization; (v)
Monitoring and Management Information; and (vi) Action Training. By far the most
important of these sub-components is the re-structuring of the MOA, and most of the
other sub-components were implemented in support of this objective. The design of this
component is appropriate for this ambitious task.
34. An international film provided the services of an Institutional Management
Specialist (IMS) for a total of 42 months, and an Action Training Specialist for 18
months. The service of the latter specialist was judged to have been outstanding.
However, the services provided by the IMS were not of a standard commensurate with
the requirements for the task. While he did provide some useful input, it is apparent that
the deficiencies of his effort contributed to delays in reaching consensus on restructuring
of the MOA.
35. A full-time team of 5 locally recruited "Officer Consultants" (O/C) were recruited
to provide expertise and guidance for specific activities.
36. Specific activities undertaken in the process of restructuring the MOA have
included:
*  Conclict of exhaustive consultations, both with the Ministry, and with a
wide range of sector stakeholders, to agree on the Core Functions of the
MOA;
*  A simultaneous process to identify functions to be commercialized and
privatized;
e  Detailed analysis, discussion and negotiation which has let to the agreement
for restructuring within the Ministry;
*  A key feature of this is the unification of all extension services.
*  Anther important reform is the merger of the Finance, Accounting and
Supplies Divisions;
*  Conduct of a Staffing Norms Analysis (SNA) which has the potential, if
implemented, to vary the authorized staff of the MOA in line with its
requirements when the full impact of privatization of functions and
streamlining of operations is implemented; and
e  Conduct a Training Needs Assessment (TNA) which provide guidance for
future staff training in harmony with the SNA and the new structure.
37. Specific activities conducted through the Strategic Studies sub-component have
been:
*  Initially working on the proposals for the restructuring of the ministry and
identifying functions to be privatized;
*  Two studies covering the Ministry Skills Inventory and a review of
Ministry's,



35
* Project Cycle Management;
* Management of the Agricultural Services Pilot Project, which was an
experiment to private sector approach to provision of agricultural services
with a potential commercial orientation.
38. Specific activities conducted through the Critical Operating Tasks sub-component
have been:
*  A review of Accounting Functions;
*  A review of Supplies functions; and
*  Establishment of a computerized and updateable inventory of the Ministry's
assets.
39. The Privatization/Commercialization sub-component had the objectives of
generating plans for the privatization and commercialization of agricultural services, and
facilitating the establishment of a system of private sector commodities exchanges to
develop a more open market for agricultural commodities. The activities undertaken to
achieve these objectives have been:
-  Conduct of numerous workshops at all levels to sensitize stakeholders to
the principles and potential of privatization;
-  Preparation of exit, entry and maintenance plans for 16 sub-sectors in
agriculture;
*  Training of officials to implement privatization plans; and
*  Generation of publicity in support of privatization of various functions.
40. The main objectives of the Action Training sub-component were to strengthen the
capacity of the MOA to efficiently undertake its functions in the liberalized agricultural
sector, and to induce a commitment firom sectoral stakeholders to the envisaged new role
for the public sector in agriculture. The main activities undertaken in support of these
objectives were:
* Implementation of a long term post-graduate training program for 30
trainees;
* Provision of short term training for 85 trainees overseas and within the
region;
* Provision of short term specialist courses for 456 officers within the
country;
* Preparation of long-term training plans;
* Conduct of the SNA and TNA (see above).
41. The Monitoring and Management Information sub-component had the main
objectives of providing MIS information for the project, and improving the MIS capacity
within the Ministry. The main activities conducted in support of these objectives have
been:
Provision of expert MIS support to other components of the project; and
* Establishment of an expanded computer training program for the Ministry;



36
42. There have been several factors which have substantially delayed the completion of
activities within this component and increased the risk that impact will be delayed or
substantially reduced. The main ones have been: (i) The high turnover of Ministers and
Permanent Secretaries within MOA during project implementation; (ii) the relatively
poor performance of the IMS; (iii) the protracted election environment in 1997; and (iv)
the increasing pre-occupation with the proposed Agricultural Sector Investment Program
(ASIP) during the latter two years of project implementation.
43. All of the important activities have been undertaken to date. The potential impact of
the project is substantial, if GOK actually carries out all the actions recommended in a
reasonable time frame. The actual impact of this component so far is very modest. There
will be little long term impact unless the new structure and role of the Ministry is adopted
by GOK2, the MOA is in fact restructured as proposed, the SNA is vigorously applied,
the proposed procedural methods (especially those relating to financial management and
accountability) are actually applied, and the designated non-public functions are
privatized. Apart from the privatization of some dipping and Al activities, none of these
actions have so far been taken, and the impact of this component of the project is
contingent on carrying through these actions.
44. An exogenous factor which is likely to have a substantial influence on the
effectiveness of MOA restructuring is the level of salaries paid to Ministry officers.
Although this is curTently the subject of a r eview through the Civil Service Reform
Program (CSRP), it is nonetheless vital. Restructuring without attendant improvements in
pay and conditions would provide less than expected benefits due to continued low staff
morale, losses of trained staff to the private sector and incentives for mis-appropriation.
Strengthening the Activities of DRSRS
45.   The Bank, in conjunction with other donors, has been supporting DRSRS since
1981. ASMP 1I concentrated on maintaining the operations of the Department and
upgrading some of its capabilities in GIS, data analysis and information services.
Estimated to cost US$ 5.2 million at appraisal, this component was the second most
costly area of support in ASMP 11.
46.   ASMP 11 support has helped DRSRS continue to improve its capabilities in land,
agriculture, livestock and wildlife information, and can be regarded as a center of high
competence in its area of work. The project's support has had an impact both on the
quality and usefulness of the information generated and on the planning capacity of
DRSRS itself.
47.   One of the main objectives of the detailed management study financed by the
project was to assess scenarios for the future roles, structures and methods of operation of
the Department, in the light of the necessity to become more user-oriented, more cost
effective, and more efficient with limited resources. The study was to examine options
for cost recovery for its services. The Study provided valuable recommendations on the
restructuring of DRSRS into a self-regulating Institute which would work towards
functioning on a commercial basis, albeit with Government and donor support. Adopting



37
these recommendations, DRSRS has prepared proposals for restructuring and budgets for
continuing operations from July 1998 onwards, but these remain as proposals only.
48.   ASMP II support has had a satisfactory impact on the continuation and
improvement in the activities of DRSRS, but its future is uncertain. A long period (two to
three years) would be required to implement the proposed structural changes. With the
closure of ASMP II, DRSRS is likely to face financial constraints, particularly in aerial
services. The sustainability of all information services at the current high level of quality
is dependent on funding levels near current levels. The immediate challenge will be for
DRSRS to explore and implement cost recovery/sharing options with users and to
reassess expenditure priorities within the available resources.
NEAP Preparation and Implementation Component
49.   As part of the project's overall objectives of improving the management of
Kenya's physical and natural resources, the preparation and implementation of a National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) was aimed at ensuring that environmental
considerations were brought into the policy and planning activities of Government, and
that there existed an institutional firamework for environmental management. The project
financed the costs of the preparation of the NEAP including the costs of the NEAP
coordinator and the working groups, and TA for undertaking the various studies required.
These studies included an Institutional Framework Study for Environmental Management
and a training needs assessment for the environment sector. In addition, the project
assisted in the preparation of Environmental Impact Assessment guidelines.
50. The NEAP was prepared in accordance with the timetable expected at appraisal and
was adopted by Government in July, 1994. A Sessional Paper on Environment and
Development defining Government policy has been prepared. The NEAP called for
legislation to ensure the coordination and enforcement of environment policy and
management, and a draft Bill was prepared and circulated to all areas of Government,
Universities and other interested stakeholders. A final Bill, the Environmental
Management and Coordination Bill was signed by the then Minister of Environment and
Natural Resources in December, 1997. Following the elections at the end of 1997, a new
Ministry of Environmental Conservation was established.
51.   The Bill envisages the establishment of a National Environmental Management
Agency (NEMA) but this cannot be established and begin to take responsibilities for
environmental affairs until the supporting legislation is in place. This is in turn is holding
up any enforcement of environmental assessment or monitoring.
52. It is likely that the Bill will be passed by the Government thereby creating the
NEMA. Successful implementation will depend on the allocation of sufficient resources
to NEMA to ensure the effectiveness of its operations, and to carry out the remaining
essential capacity building activities (implementation of training program, outreach
program, determination of environmental standards and investment program). At this
stage, this is uncertain.



38
53.   At the closure of the project, whilst substantial progress has been made on the
policy aspects, there has been no impact in terms of the development objectives of the
project since the implementation process is stalled. If the legislation is enacted and
sufficient resources are made available to NEMA for continuing the implementation
process, this component has the potential to have a satisfactory outcome in the next 12 to
18 months.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
54. The major factors that affected the implementation and the impact of the project
were:
*  Three changes of Ministers and Permanent Secretaries during the project's
life r esulted in implementation delays as each needed to be informed of and
become committed to the project's objectives;
*  The election of 1997 effectively stalled policy formulation, adoption and
action during the period July 1997 to January, 1998.
*  The availability of counterpart funds at the latter stages of the project.
*  There was a serious under-estimation of the time required for the reform
process to result in actin on the part of GOK. This proved to be far longer
than the timetable under which the project was operating. Implementing the
refor-ms could only begin when decisions has been made by Government.
*  The emergence of ASIP at mid-term review meant that the actions to be
r-equired to be taken under ASMP II were subsumed under ASIP. However,
for an ASIP to be successful, it is generally considered that efficient,
accountable, client-oriented public sector services need to be in place.
D. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME.
55.          As mentioned above, all of the important project outputs in each of the
sectors have been completed satisfactorily. The potential impact of the project is
substantial, but the actual impact of the project so far is very modest. The outcome of the
project is contingent on what happens following the project's closure. Given that the
experience of the project shows that it takes a long time to implement major reforms,
both within line Ministries and within the civil service in general, the future progress of
the project's thrust is uncertain. Nevertheless, the project design clearly envisaged reform
and improved efficiency to be achieved in the major agricultural subsectors and in overall
sector management as a result of project activities. In most cases, this has not been
achieved. Therefore, at the time of project completion, the project must be considered to
have an unsatisfactory outcome.
Nairobi I th June, 1998



39
APPENDIX B
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP 11)
GOVERNMENT'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE,
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AND MARKETING
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(ASMP II)
CR- 2445 KE
PROJECT COMPLETION
REPORT
June 1998



TABLE OF CONTENTS:
Page-
SYNOPSIS                                         (i)
OVERVIEW                                          I
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
INSTITIJTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                            2
PART 1.
CAPACITY BUILDING.INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING COMPONENT                           3
-   INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT
SUB-COMPONENT                            4
-   STRATEGIC STUDIES SUB-COMPONENT          10
-   CRITICAL OPERATING TASKS
SUB-COMPONENT                           20
-   ACTION TRAINING SUBCOMPONENT             32
-   MONITORING AND MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION SUB-COMPONENT               45
-   PRIVATIZATION/COMMERCIALIZATION
SUB-COMPONENT                           49
COTTON SUBSECTOR DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT           59
SUGAR SUBSECTOR DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT            72
OILSEEDS SUBSECTOR DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT         82
13RSRS COMPONENT                                  95
COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT               108
NEAP COMPONENT                                   117
4.



PART 2:
PROJECT FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT                                           136
ANNEXES:
a)    TRAINING ANNEXES:
I     Details of Postgraduate Training
Program
2     Details of Short-Term Overseas and
Regional Courses
3     Details of Short-Term In-house
Courses
b)    FINANCIAL ANNEXES:
I(a)  Summarv of Cumulative Project
Cost bv Category of Expenditure
(1/3/93 - 31/3/98 and
1/7/97 - 31/3/98)
1(b)  Summary of Cumulative Project
Cost by Component
(1/7/97 - 31/3/98)
1 (c)  Summarv of Cumulative Project
Cost bv Component
(1/3/93 - 31/3/98)
2(a)   Procurement Status as at
31/3/98
2     Additional Procurement for the
period 1/7/97 - 31/3/98
3     Budget Provision for 1997/98
and Actual Expenditure from
1/7/97 to 31/3/98



4     Special Deposit Account and
Transactions Statement
(1/3193 - 3113/98)
5     Disbursement Status Report
(29/9/93 - 31/3/98) and
2'919193 - 9/6/98)
I



SYNOPSIS:
The ASNIP 11 Project has been an action oriented project. Consequentiv. it was
designed to t'inance the necessary technical assistance. training. vehicles. equipment and
incremental operating costs required to develop detailed implementationl plans in order to
implement the institutional management dimensions of the prolect.
This is a "Project Completion Report". WVhile every effort has been made to include
as mucii detail as possible. reasonable brevity and precision have had to prevail in this report
particularlyv il view of the magnitude of the project. Besides. cognisance should be made of
ihe existence ot a series of regular semi-annual progres reports that have been prepared
throuchout the project life each  ot' which  contains  incremental detail on  project
implementation status since inception.
This report constitutes of two major parts. Part I of the report presents a detailed
exposition ot each of the seven components with particular emphasis on the achievements
realised and the implementation bottlenecks encountered. To the extent possible. an attempt
hias been made to assess the impact of each component taking cognisance of the original
ohiectives. It is instructive to mention here. however. that the ASMIP 1I came to a close at
a tine when it was just beeinning to roll into the "implementation phase." In the
circumstances. anyv meanineful statement on the perceptible impact of the project can only
. in all fairness. be made some years later when the implemetation of the various
recommendations that emerged from the various studies have fully been embraced. Part 2
of the report focuses on the financial aspects of the project.



a.    Overview
The Agricultural Sector Manazement Project (ASMP II) Credit 2445-KE is a four year
IDA funded project which started in September 1993 when the credit became effective. It was
initiallv scheduled to close in December 1997 but was extended for six months to June 30th.
1998. Prior to the credit effectiveness. funding for the project was provided through a Project
Preparation Facilitv (PPF). The credit was originallv for a sum of USS 19.4 million (SDR 13.8
million equivalent) but has been reduced to US$ 17.8 million when the Bank granted a six month
extension. It is a follow-up of ASMP I - Credit 1718-KE which aimed at strengthening the
capacitv of public sector institutions to provide kev services to farmers and to formulate
agricultural policv. While substantial achievements were recorded under ASMP I in analytical
capacitv and reforms in budgeting, the management capacity in the Ministrv of Agriculture,
Livestock Development and Marketing to deliver technical services. manage projects and
programs and formulate policy initiatives in a consistent and integrated fashion still remained
inadequate. For this reason. the government had not exploited subsectors such as Sugar. Cotton
and Oilseeds. For the same reason. radical steps became increasingly necessarv to restructure
the Co-operative subsector to make it operate more efficientlv and be responsive to the members
and societies needs.
The two Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing and Co-
operative Development which are involved in the agricultural sector require to demonstrate an
institutional vision of their role in the liberalized environment that currently obtains, especially
with regard to provision of strategic services to farmers. Bringing about a fundamental shift in
public sector involvement in the- agricultural sector while at the same time creating an enabling
environment for greater private sector participation was the main aim of ASAO II which closed
on 30th, June 1996.  Greater capacity within the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock
Development and Marketing and the Co-operative Development, together with management skills
and policy determination are needed in achieving the above goals. These are the major aims of
ASMP II.
b.    The Project Objectives:
The main objectives of the Second Agricultural Sector Management Project (ASMP II)
are to:-
(a)   develop  key  agricultural subsectors by  fostering  greater private  sector
.   involvement. The specific subsectors are Cotton, Sugar and Oilseeds;
(b)   reform  the Co-operative sector to make co-operatives more efficient and
responsive to member needs;
* i)   increase the overall efficiency of the Ministry of Agriculture. Livestock
Development and Marketing by rationalizing its role, structure and strategic
functions and;
l1



i d)   ensure the sustainable use of Kenva's physical resources by strengthening the
capability in government to factor in the impact on the environment of
agricultural programs and policy initiative.
To achieve the above. the project constitutes of seven components. namelv:
1)   Institutional Strengthening/Capacity Building component
2)    Cotton Subsector Development
3)    Sugar Subsector- Development
4)    Oilseeds Subsector Development
5)    Cooperative Subsector Development
6)    Department of Resources Survev and Remote Sensing (DRSRS)
7)    National Environment Action Plan (NEAP)
C.    Institutional Arrangements for Project Implementation:
The Ministry of Agriculture. Livestock Development and Marketing (MALD&M) has
been responsible for the first four components of ASMP II. The NEAP component is being
implemented by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, the Cooperative component
by the Ministry of Cooperative Development and the DRSRS component by the Ministry of
Planning and National Development. All the seven components are implemented under the
overall direction of the Agricultural Sector Committee (ASC) whose chairperson is the
Permanent Secretaryv MALD&M. The day-to-day management of the implementation of parts
1.2.3 and 4 of the project is. however. the responsibility of the ASMP II Management and
Implementation Committee (MIC) chaired by the ASMP II Project Coordinator.
2
*1



PART 1:
.  IN[STITLTIONAL STRENGTHENING i CAPACITY BUILDING
COMPONENT:
Introduction
The Capacitv Building component constitutes one of the four components of ASMP
It which is being implemented bv the Ministrv of Agriculture. The main objective of this
component has been to rationale the role. structure and functions of this Ministry, focussing
on the tollowing four areas:.-
I.   Identifving the role and functions or MALDM  in a changing liberalized
agricultural sector framework which is increasinglv dominated by greater
private sector initiative: and which is characterized bv a changing fiscal
environment in which public (budeetarv) resources are increasingly scarce.
'.    Following on from the identification of the role and functions of MALDM.
strengthening the management of operations in selected technical units which
have to remain in the public sector.
3.    Facilitating commercialization  in appropriate  functions which  though
remaining within the public domain have the potential for partial or full cost
recovery.
4.    Facilitating privatization of appropriate functions.
This component embraced the following sub-components / main activities:
1.    Restructuring of the Ministry.
2.    Strategic Studies
3.    Critical Operating Tasks
4.    Privatization/commercialization
5.    Monitoring and Management Information System
-6.    Action Training
This section of the report provides an overview of the Capacity Building component.
Detailed reports of each sub-components / main activities follow this overview.
I.     3
3



4
1.1 INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING/CAPACITY BUILDING
SUB-COMPONENT:
Design:
The staff appraisal report does not list down detailed implemenation steps tor this
component. However. it highlights the implementation approach which was expected to
centre around a process ot sectoral stakeholder and technical leaders interactions through a
series of workshops. This would have an aim of building committments in both the technical
divisions and other stakeholders in the sector to ensure immediate improvement in the
performance of the Ministrv. ii addition the process would need to have cleariv defined
performance targets some of which are listed below.
Expected Output:
The project document lists the following as the kev performance indicators for this
component: -
Year I and 2:
Preparation of a detailed trainine programme based on identified training
needs and cost effectiveness considerations:
Reach internal agreement on what the future role and structure of the Ministry
should be. based on studies done prior to the commencement of ASMP 11,
work done under ASMP 11 and on the results emanating from the commitment
building workshops. By this time there should emerge a clear consensus on
what services should be retained by the Ministry and which of these need to
be commercialized and which should be privatized.
Decide on the following: (a) management strengthening process for key
services to be retained by the ministry: (b) commercialization process for
those services from which partial and/or full cost recoverv is possible: and (c)
the process by which selected services would be privatized.
Evaluation of the training programme for the first year and incorporation of
the lessons learned in the second year training program.
Year 3:
Initiation of (a) the management strengthening process for key services to be
retained by the Ministry; commercialization process for those services from
which partial and/or full costs recoverv is possible: and (b) the process by
which selected services are privatized.
4



Year 4:
Achievement of the followina: la} Strengthen the management of services to be
retained hy the Ministrv and bring O&M to salary ratio to 1:1: ib) establish cost
recoverv mechanisms at around 75 percent of the theoretical maximum: and (c)
complete all privatization exercises.
Implementation:
Capacity Building Team (CTB)
The provision of technical assistance for this component consisted of two long
international consultants and 5 local "Officer Consultants". The international consultancy was
awarded to the "Deutsche Gesellschaft Fur Technische Zusammenarbeit" (GTZ) who provided
one institutional management specialist who would also be the team leader for the component
and one action training specialist. The Officer-Consutlants to be in charge of training,
privatization and commercialization. critical opertaing tasks. strategic studies and monitoring and
information system were recuited from the Ministrv of Agriculture and the Ministry of Planning
and National Development.
The activities for this component began in February 1994 when the Capacity Building
Team (CBT) started working. The team consisted of the following:-
1.    Prof. Werner von der Ohe - Institutional Management Specialist and Team
Leader.
2.    Mr. Klaus von Freyhold - Action training Management Specialist.
3.    Mr. George Ogola - Officer Consultant. Action Training.
4.    Ms. Jedidah Gachanja - Officer Consultant, Critical Tasks.
5.    Mr. David Nthusi - Officer Consultant. Monitoring and Management Information
System.
6.    Mr. James Boit - Officer Consultant. Strategic Studies.
7.    Mr. Mutua Kihu - Officer Consultant. Privatization and Commercialization joined
the project in 1st August 1995
MWthodology:
The methodology and approach in fulfilment of the objectives set out for this component,
was laijely determained by project document and expounded in detail by the the GTZ technical
proposal. The important aspects of the methodology were as follows:-
5



1.    Integration of external and internal expertise as a team.
2.    Participatorv approach within the team  and with the stakeholders through
workshops.
3.    Collection and analvsis ot existing local know-how and know-vvhy (stock-taking).
4.    Collection and analysis of regional experiences derived under similar conditions.
5.    Preparation of "plans of operations" throueh workshops.
6.    Monitoring. evaluation and adjustment of the implementation of plans of
operations.
7.    Building up of an institutional memorv.
Achievements of the Restructuring of the Mlinistry:
I.    Activities to remain public. to be commercialized and those to be privatized have
been identified and agreed on.
-     Through a series of interviews and workshops involving represenataives
of relevent stakeholders from the public and private sectors, activities of
the ministry to remain and those to be privatized and commercialized were
identified. The workshop proceeeding and the privatization plan document
provides more details on this process. For the services to be privatized,
the exit plans are being prepared (more details provided in other parts of
this report)
2.    Core functions of the restructured ministrv identified.
On the basis of the activtities to be retained within the Ministry as purely
public or mixed ie to be provided on a commercial basis by the Ministry,
ten core fuction were identified. These core fuctions are as follows:-
*     Monitoring and management of food security
*     Formulation and monitoring of appropriate policy and legislation
*     Information management for the agricultural sector
*     Regulatory  management of agricultural inputs. produce and
products
6



Facilitation and suppiv or appropriate agricultural extension
services and extension-research liaison
Sector development co-ordination
Development and protection of the natural resource base for
agriculture
Disease and pest control
*     Contribution to agricultural research prioritv setting
*     Promotion of private sector development
The structure document provides more descriptive details on these core
fuctions.
3.    New structure of the Ministrv identified and Cabinet approval given in March
1997 (this was retlected in the Presidential Circular no. 1/98 on the
Organization of the Government of the Republic or Kenya. The main
highlights of the new role and structure are as follows:-
Identification of ten core functions for the Ministry
Unification in the management of extension services (extension
services to be under one management) all the way from the farmer t
pastoralist to the headquarters.
*     The merging of the Department of Agriculture and Department of
Livestock Production to form  the Department of Agriculture and
Livestock Production.
A reduction in the number of divisions at headquarters in conformity
with reduction of services to be retained by the Ministry. The other
services which were previousiv performed by the Ministry will be
privatized.
Reduction in the span of control (number of Officers reporting to the
Permanent Secretary) from 14 to 7. This has been achieved through
amalgamation of the Agriculture and Livestock Production departments
and the amalgamation of the Finance. Accounts and Supplies units.
There has also been a reduction in the number of Deputy Secretaries,
or their equivalents, who report directly to the Permanent Secretary.
Deployment of senior technical officers and Subject Matter Specialists
(SMS's) close to farmers / pastoralists ie mainly to Districts and
Divisions where possible.
7



Promotion of stronger vertical and horizontal linkaees between the
Ministrv staff (especiailv the technical departments and the support
units) and between the minisirv and its clients (especialiv farmers and
pastoralists).
Operationalization details were agreed on in February 1998 and are in the
process of implementation beginning with the appointment of kev officer by
'0th June.
5.    A number of studies have been carried out on identified strateeic areas and
critical operating tasks of the ministrv with the aim  of strengthening the
management of services to remain in the Ministrv.
Other activities which have been carried out in support of the restructuring exercise
are as follows:-
Staffing Norms Analvsis studv (near completion)
Training Needs Assessment Studv (draft final report submitted)
Implementation Bottlenecks
The new structure as approved by Cabinet in March 1997. was not implemented
largely because of a number of operationalization bottlencecks. These bottlenecks relate to
concept of unified extension services and the creation of the Kenya Plant Health Inspection
Services (KEPHIS) which took away a large percentage of the activities of the Department
of Agriculture as well as staff who were going to be deployed to the new Department of
Extension and Adaptive Research (DE&AR). This bottleneck was resolved in February 1998
when it was agreed that the Department of Agriculture and the Deprtament of Livestock
Production be merged to form the Departament of Agriculture and Livestock Production.
Following this agreement. a structure implementtaion programme has been agreed on.
Another major botileneck has been the high turnover of senior managers in the
Ministry. Durine the life span of the project. the ministry has had 3 ministers. 3 Permanent
secretaries. 2 Directors of Agriculture (SDDA acted for along time in between the 2 DA's),
3 Directors of Livestock Production and 3 heads of the Development Planning Division.
Thev being the policy decision makers in the Ministry. at the worst of times, has resulted in
long delays in implemation.
8
*1- 



Outstanding Lssues
- implemention of the structure
- management strengthening in kev areas
Summarv:
Project component objectives have been met in the sense that all the preparatorv work
has been completed and some implemenation initiated.
9



a)    STRATEGIC STUDIES SUB-CONIPONENT
Introduction:
The objectives ot this sub-component and the activities of the Officer-Consultant Strategic
Studies iOCSS) have been guided by the Terms of Reference iziven to the Officer Consultant.
The "Strategic Studies' (which is a sub-component of the Capacity Building .' Institutional
Strengthening Component) was designed to plav an important supportive role in the process in
the rationalization and restructuring of the Ministrv.
The design of the project and the interpretation of the given terms of reference required
that this sub-component be responsible for providing the necessary background against which
future activities of the Ministry-can be planned and strengthened. This therefore meant that this
sub-component was expected to plav a major supporting role in the design and implementation
of the new structure of MALD&M. especially in the area of identifying the new role and
structure of the Ministrv and the strengthening of core functions and activities that will remain
within the mandate of the restrucrured Ministrv.
It should be noted that Strategic Studies sub-component was designed to be a dynamic
process to ensure that it becomes responsive to the needs of the overall restructuring process.
What was to be done:
Methodology:
In line with the overall aims and objectives of involving stakeholder and technical leader
in the capacity building process, strategic studies activities were designed to be undertaken by
a task force consisting of nominees from the relevant units of the Ministry. Since studies would
varv in subject matter it was agreed that core task force consisting of 5 members would be
formed and additional relevant members / experts would be added in each study.
Performance Milestones
The project document does not indicate specific milestones for the sub-component.
However the applicable key performance indicators for this sub-component. as specified in the
ASMP II Staff Appraisal Report. are as follows:
Year I and 2:
-     Formulation of the future role and structure of the Ministry
Identification of  ervices to be retained by the Ministry and those to be
commercialized and privatized
-     Deciding on the management strengthening process for key services to be retained
by the ministry
10



Y'ear 3:
Initiatinz the management stren2thening process for kev services to be retained
bv the ministrv
Y'ear 4:
Strengthen the management of services to he retained bv the ministrv
Achievements todate:
During the first year and part of the second vears. the activities of this sub-component
concentrated on the development of the new structure of the Ministrv ie defining the new role
and structure of the Ministrv. This initial period of determining the future direction and vision
for the ministry was a necessarv pre-requisite in order to lay a firm foundation and basis in
which to address the given terms of reference. The restructuring process and the intensive
interactions with relevant stakeholders through forums such as workshops and intensive
departmental consultations. enabled the identification of some of the strategic areas requiring to
be studied.
During the same period (first and parts of the second year) and in the absence of the
Officer Consultant Privatization and Commercialization who was recruited in middle of the
second project year). this sub-component took responsibility in the development. initiation and
monitorine of the Agricultural Services Pilot Project in Meru District.
In the last half of the second year and the third year. the sub-component activities
concentrated on the following:-
1.    Undertaking of identified strategic studies with the task force on strategic studies.
2.    Continuing Capacitv Building Team activities pertaining to restructuring of the
Ministrv.
Facilitating and monitoring the progress of the Agricultural Services Pilot Project
in Meru.
During the fourth and the ending half year of the project. activities continued to
concentrate on undertaking strategic studies and implementation of recommendations arising
from these studies. as part of the process of addressing the key performance indicators of
strengthening the management of services to be retained by the Ministry. In addition to this, a
large percentage of the activities of this sub-component concentrated on taking a leading role in
the restructuring exercise following the departure of the Institutional Management Specialists in
Mayv 1997.
11



Highlights of Main Activities
The main highliahts of each specific activitv under strate-ic studies sub-component which
has been undertaken by this sub-component. are as follows:
1.    STRATEGIC STUDIES:
These activities were undertaken in conjunction with task force on strategic studies.
1.1   Establishment and Updating of the Skills Inventorv:
The objective of this studv was to establish a skills inventorv data base for the
Ministry and institutionalize the updating process in the relevant kev units within the
Ministry, as a kev manaaement tool in determining training needs and manpower
development. The initiation of the study was also aimed at collecting the necessarv data
which would be required as an input into the Staffing Norms Analvsis and the Training
Needs Assessment studies.
The data collection and computerization part of this study has been finalized (refer
to the report for uetails) and the institutionalization process of training and establishment
of skills updating units in the Ministry is ongoing. Data for about 22.400 MALD&M
staff was collected through a questionnaire survey which targeting all ministerial staff.
Some of the important data areas were then computerized using the Statistical Package
for Social Scientists (SPSS) software and a computerized data base established on
specified skills.
These data bases were then handed over to the relevant units in the 3 technical
departments and the personnel section of the Ministry who will be responsible for the
continuous updating process. In addition to this. 3 training courses have been held which
have targeted staff in those units which were identified to manage the data and other staff
who will be responsible for data processinz and analvsis.
Implementation Bottlenecks:
The questionnaire used to collect the relevant data contained substantial amounts
of data. However not all the data were computerized owing time constraints and resource
availability including sufficient lack of personnel well versed with the SPSS software.
The group of 10 data entry operators who were trained for this specific exercise were not
adequate hence the reason why all the data could not computerized. Therefore the
'computerized data base contains the very essential data only such qualifications, age,
designation etc.
12
*   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



The institutionalization process has been slower than expected due to
inaccessibility of appropriate hardware to run the software and handle the sizeable skills
inventorv data base. This problem relates to a common constraint within the Ministry in
although there a sufficient computers available. a large percentage of computers are used
for word processing onlv when it should he availed for data analvsis and also a
significant number of computers inaccessible and are retained by senior offices (inside
their officesi for status svmbolism with little or no use.
In addition to the above, this studv noted that senior managers within the Ministry
do not appreciate the importance of data such as the skills inventorv. The root cause of
this is due to either ignorance of its usefulness or deliberate avoidance of its use since
it leads to increased transparency in decision making, especially on issues related to
development of appropriate training programmes and impartial nominations for training
programmes.
1.2    Project Cvcle NManagement Study
The objective of this study was to review the Ministrv's PCM process and make
recommendations on how to improve the project cycle management (PCM) process.
taking particular note of the ongoine ministerial restructuring proposals to ensure
effective and efficient planning and implementation of projects.
The study identified that the main areas (more details given in the study report)
for improvement and the proposed approaches of going about these improvement, are as
follows:-
-     Beneficiaries should participate in all stages of the project cycle.
-     More attention to gender issues (women empowerment) in the project
cycle.
-     Strengthening of the district focus strategy.
-     Inclusion of effective mechanisms for sustainability in project preparation.
Improvement in negotiations skills for staff involved.
Rationalization of project funding sources.
Strengthening the monitoring. evaluation and feedback (M.E&F)
Wider distribution of project documents.
Strengthening of supervision and more headquarters support to district
planning.
Establishing appropriate capacities of the ministry in terms of the volume
and size of the projects that can be efficiently managed.
Adoption of a unified and a fully integrated planning and implementation
guideline for all sector projects. In line with this, the study recommends
that the Ministry should ensure that all the projects under its portfolio, go
through the following PCM stages / steps:-
13



Stage 1 - Idea and Proposal
Staee 2 - Identification
Stage 3 - Preparation
Stage 4 - Appraisal
Stage 5 - Promotion and Selection
Staee 6 - Negotiation and Financing
Stage 7 - Planning for Implementation
Stage 8 - Implementation
Stage 9 - Participatorv Reporting
Stage 10 - kfonitoring and Feedback
Stage II - Ongoing Evaluations and Reviews
Stage 12 - Terminal Evaluation
Stage 13 - Ex-post Evaluation
The studv has provided giuidelines for an improved institutional and managerial
frameworkl in which for planning and implementation purposes. there should be a clear
distinction between the f6llowing:-
-     :FARMING CONIMUNITY PROJECTS
-     dMALD&M INSTITUTIONAL PROJECTS
-     INTEGRATED (MULTI-SECTORAL) PROJECTS.
The studv has been finalized and its recommendations are in the process of being
implemented through the GTZ financed Project Cycle Management Improvement Project
(PCMIP). which developed a training manual which borrowed heavily from the
recommendations made by this study.
Implementation Bottlenecks
Implementation momentum, through the PCMIP training programme has slowed
down as from January 1998 following the ending of phase II of the project.
Other areas of strategic importance which were identified but not studied. were as follows:-
1.    Establishment of a priority setting process for agricultural research and the
strengthening of the extension / research linkages between the Ministry of
Agriculture and relevant research institutions.
2.    Strengthening of the Ministry's regulatory framework
3.    Strengthening of Ministry's planning and policy review process.
4.    Review of the legal framework to ensure conformity with prevailing policy.
14



2.   ^AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PILOT PROJECT
This pilot project was designed primarilv to test different modes of privatization of
identified veterinarv services and also explore wavs and means in which women farmers could
he assisted. This pilot project was implemented in two Divisions (Abothoguchi West and North
lmentii of the current Meru Central District through the support ot DANIDA. who provided
loan funds through Co-operative Development Fund (CDF) / Co-operative bank of Kenva and
the World Bank who provided operations and maintenance tunds through ASMP II.
The specific purpose of the pilot was to lav some strong foundation on how to structure
and organize the provision of the identified veterinarv services bv the private sector (or
beneficiaries) and also to address some of the kev problems that constrain the Government's
declared policv. In addition. the pilot project was also aimed at seeking some solutions on how
to strengthen the extension of assistance to women farmers. The pilot project consisted of the
following 4 components:-
a.    Administration of clinical veterinarv services
h.    Management of cattle dips
c.    Supply of artificial insemination
d.    Women farmer needs
The main inputs into the projects were expected to consist of the following main
categories: -
1.    Credit facilities
2.    Technical and management support
3.    Training, education and information
4.    Coordination. monitoring and evaluation
The main output of the pilot project was expected to be the models for privatization of
the livestock related services and for the delivery of improved technologies for women farmers.
For the project area and the target groups the main outputs were expected to be the following:
1.    Increased milk production
2.    Increased production of graded cattle
3.    Increased agricultural production in general due to the introduction of improved
technologies for the women farmers
Achievements
,,Clinical Services
Very little progress was been made through the project's efforts in terms of
financing the identified options of Co-operative Society option, private practicing
15



veterinary doctor option or the NGO option. Most of the individual veterinarians
indicated that the terms and conditions ot the loan funds provided bv the pilot project
Were very difficult to meet especially the need for collateral and the prevailing high
:nterest rates
rhe Co-operative Society option did not taken off due to management problems
.xithin the societies. The Mvleru Central Farmers Co-operative Union pursued this option.
hut not through the pilot project. by employing their own Veterinary Doctor and Al
technicians. However the Veterinarian emploved resigned from the Union to join the
Ministry (Department of Veterinarv Services) because of frustrations and uncertainties
within the Unions mode of operations.
Artificial Insemination
Similar to clinical services. there has been verv little progress through the project
in facilitating the provision of privatized Al services. The project made verv vigorous
efforts to promote provision of Al through the three co-operative societies of Githongo.
Kithurine and Katheri. as agreed upon during the pilot development stage. However this
intensive effort was thwarted by managerial and political problems within these
institutions and also their lack of independence to make decisions ie influence bv their
Union who are already runninu an Al service and the Co-operative Act which requires
al long procedures for financial approvals. The private practitioner option has also not
taken off due to the unsuitable terms and conditions of the credit facilities offered by the
project's lending arm.
Despite the above situation, private Al services have been started by the Meru
Central Farmers Co-operative Union (MCFCU) and two private individuals (one
Veterinarv Doctor and one Al technician) during the pilot phase. but with no assistance
from the from the project. The Ministry initiallv continued providing Al services. as back
up on a cost recovery basis. but later on stopped the service as means of encouraging
faster privatization and to allow an expansion of the Meru Union Al Service Scheme.
Tick Control
This component has proven to be the most difficult area on privatization of
veterinary services and especiallv the activity of rehabilitation of cattle dips. Some of the
main problems related to ownership status ie dips are owned by communities. high cost
of acaricides and low level managerial capacities in dip committees which manage most
dips. During the pilot phase a few dips were taken over by some Dairy Co-operative
Societies without any financial assistance from the project. but the majority of dips
remain in the same status and inactive as before the project was started.
Women Farmer Needs
16



Of the four project components. this has been the most successful. The project
area has over 200 registered women's groups who have been able to mobilize over seven
million shillings. However all groups could not participate in the project during the pilot
phase and are awaiting a decision from the Co-operative Bank CDF on the expansion
of the lendinc programme. Out of the eleven woomen g2roups which were selected to
participate in the project. one of the groups opted to initiate a Lroup project on water for
irrigation and 10 gyroups opted to give out individual member loans for the purchase of
appropriate technology or farm inputs.
Following various planned activities mainlv related to training (on group
dvnamics. credit management). savings mobilization improved crop production and
animal husbandry. 9 women groups advanced loans through CDF/CBK. The details of
the loans disbursed. as at 1st February 1997. are contained in Annex C.
Implementation Bottlenecks
During the first eight months of the project. very little progress was made mainly
due to a problem in the project not being able to access the necessarv funding required.
It was not until September 1995 that an AIE was issued to the DVO Meru. that the
project was able to initiate the necessary activities. activities.
Loan funds availed through the CDF / Co-operative Bank did not attract
horrowers. except the women groups. due to continued high market interest rates and
lack of collateral by individual practitioners such as veterinarv doctors and Al
technicians.
3.    MINISTERIAL RESTRUCTURING
In conjunction with other members of the Capacitv Building Team led by the Team
Leader / Institutional Management Specialist and the Project Co-ordinator. the new role and
structure for the Ministrv was defined and developed. The main highlights of the new role and
structure are as fdllows:-
*     Identification of ten core functions for the Ministry
*     Unification in the management of extension services (extension services to be
under one management) all the way from the farmer / pastoralist to the
headquarters.
*     The merging of the Department of Agriculture and Department of Livestock
Production to form the Department of Agriculture and Livestock Ptoduction.
*     A reduction in the number of divisions at headquarters in conformity with
reduction of services to be retained by the Ministry. The other services which
17



were previously performed by the Ministrv will be privatized.
*     Reduction in the span of control (number of Officers reporting to the Permanent
Secretarv) from 14 to 7. This has been achieved through amaleamation of the
Agriculture and Livestock Production departments and the amalgamation of the
Finance. Accounts and Supplies units. There has also been a reduction in the
number of Deputy Secretaries, or their equivalents, who report directly to the
Pernanent Secretarv.
*     Deployment of senior technical officers and Subject Matter Specialists (SMS's)
close to farmers pastoralists ie mainly to Districts and Divisions where possible.
*     Promotion of stronger vertical and horizontal linkages between the Ministry staff
(especially the technical departments and the support units) and between the
ministry and its clients (especially farmers and pastoralists).
The new structure was approved by the Cabinet in March 1997 and after a lengthy fine
tuning process. the new structure is on the verge of being implemented. The implementation
process is being assisted by inputs from the staffing norms studv and the trainine needs study
recommendations.
The CBT was able to a developed a privatization programme paper which outlined which
services should remain public and which should be privatized / commercialized. Currently the
relevant exit. entry and maintenance plans are being developed.
Implementation Bottlenecks
The implementation mandate has not been carried due to the lengthy period it has taken
to reach a consensus on the operationalization new structure. This coupled with uncertainties
experienced in the flow of funds from Treasury in the 1997/98 financial year. including severe
budget cuts, has delayed planned implementation activities.
SUMMARY CONCLUSION
The sub-component has been able make its expected contribution in addressing the key
performance indicators as outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report. However the extent of coverage
has been limited since it was able to address only 3 strategic studies (including the Meru pilot
project) out of the total number of six which were identified. The main focus of this sub-
compnent has been on the development of the new structure which took more time than was
originally anticipated.
The level of implementation has been less than desirable due lack of adequate financial
18



resources ie even though the prolect had an implementation mandate. it did not have the
necessarY tinancial resources to do so. The implementation of the new structure has also been
less desirable because it has taken a long rime to reach a consensus on how the approved new
structure should be operationalized. Theretore some of the implementation aspect did not take
pilce during the prolect life and are therefor expected to take place during the ASIP Phase I
period of 1998/99.
Workinc through representative task forces enabled the relevant stakeholders in the
Ministrv to ensure that their interests were taken care and in addition facilitated some capacity
huilding to he undertaken through continuous interactions between ministerial task force member
and the ASMP 11 and ASAO 1I consultants . advisors.
19
1.



1.3 CRITICAL OPERATING TASKS SUB-CONIPONENT:
Introduction
One of the main tarnet areas of the Institutional Strengthening of MALD&M functions.
within the Capacity Building Component of ASMP II was the improvement in performance of
the tasks executed in Critical Operating areas of the ministry. As per the projects appraisal
document the officer consultant - Critical Operating Tasks was expected to take lead in the
identification. and review of the critical operating tasks in order to generate suitable
recommendations which when implemented hv the ministrv would enhance the performance
with which these tasks are executed. Critical tasks were defined as those tasks that would
greatly impede the execution of the ministrv's overall functions if thev ( critical tasks) are not
executed with a high degree of effectiveness and efficiency. The specific objective in the
review of critical tasks was to eenerate suitable recommendations that would improve on the
pertormance of these tasks when implemented. This would in rurn contribute to the overall
ohiective of improving the performance with which the entire ministrv's functions are executed
there hv contributing to its institutional strengthening. The critical tasks were identified
through various stakeholder workshops. Through a task force on Critical Operating Tasks
some of the tasks have been reviewed in order to identify inherent weaknesses and constraints.
Consequently suitable recommendations have been proposed for implementation in order to
improve the performance with which these tasks are executed.
To date study reviews on three critical tasks have carried out. These are as follows
Review of Accounting Function in the Ministry headquarters
Review of Supplies Function in the Ministrv
Establishment of  a computerised  updatable Master Inventorv for the
Ministrv's assets
The Sections that follow present a report on the review of the activities listed above
which was the major preoccupation of the Officer Consultant in charge of Critical Operating
Tasks.
Accounting Function:
Through a Task Force on Critical Operating Tasks. headed by the officer
consultant in charge of critical tasks the performance of the Accounting Function of
the Ministry was reviewed. The task force membership was drawn from both the
technical and administrative wing of the ministry. The three technical departments of
Agriculture. Livestock Production and Veterinarv Services were each represented by
a senior officer and for the administrative wing of the Ministry the following divisions
were each represented by a, senior officer. These are Finance Division: Accounts
20



Division: Administration Services Division: Planning Division and State Corporations
Division. This task force approach with membership from all the relevant functional
areas of the ministrv was expected to create ownership of the results of the review
studv  and also toster  the necessarv linkaees between these areas in order to
eomprehensivelv address the interacting issues across these areas.
In summary the terms of reference for the task force were
Review the operations of the accounting function in the Mlinistry
Headquarters and identifv inherent constraints
Generate Implementable recommendations to overcome
constraints which would result in improved functioning of the
accounting function.
As a guide to the task force both Government Financial Regulations and
procedures and a schedule of duties tor the accounts division were used as reference
documents. A series of interviews and discussions with staff of the accounts divisions
were conducted and information pertaining to their views on the strenYths and
constraints experienced in operations of the division obtained. Views from technical
departments were also obtained through their membership in the task force.
Other relevant offices dealing with government Accounting were also consulted
for example the oftice of the Accountant General and External Resources Division of
Treasurv.
The results of the review are contained in a report entitled "The Review of the
Accounting Functions in the Ministry of Agriculture Livestock Development and
Marketing" produced in Nov. 1995 by the Task Force on Critical Operating Tasks.
The report indicated that the Accounting function is ineffectively and inefficiently
executed. In summarv. causes for the sub-optimal performance were:
*     weak overall management of the accounting function
*     poor logistic support for the Accounts Division
*     poor linkages and information flow between Accounts: Finance:
Technical and Administrative Divisions within the ministry
*     inadequate training of personnel working in finance: Accounts and
Technical Departments (AIE holders).
Weak financial discipline
Recommendations that focused on the following areas were proposed.
*     improvement in quality of management of the Accounts Division in MALD&M
*     structural reorganization aimed at facilitating effective linkages between
accounts and finance function.
.
21i
*1*1 i



.. ~ * strengthening feedback in the office of Accounting Office
The report on the review of the Accounts function was presented to the Ministry's
Policy Advisorv Committee (PAC) early 1996. In principle PAC accepted the report and
appointed a subcommittee to studv the details of the report. Later in April 96. PAC appointed
an Implementation Committee for the Accounts Report chaired bv Deputv Secretary in charge
of Development Coordination.
Implementation of some of the recommendations emanatine from the task force report
are currentlv heinc implemented. These include the following.
Streamlining of authoritv to incur expenditure( AIE )issuing to facilitate user
departments to take charge and control funds allocated to them is currently in
the process of implementation.  The streamlining is also facilitating the
Principal Accounts Controller to maintain a  master vote book for more
effective expenditure monitoring.
*     Training of Accounts Staff: Two courses have been carried out targeting
clerical cadre staff in Accounts Division. The ciective of the course was to
instill skills and knowledge  pertaining to prUL-dures and regulations of
government based Accounting svstems and also basic computer knowledge.
i     Training of Technical Officers in Financial Management: A course which
has targeted technical officers with financial management responsibilities was
conducted with the objective of imparting financial management skills to these
non-financial managers.
*     Processing of Payment Vouchers :There has been modest efforts in the
accounting system to improve on the flow of payment vouchers. However,
the comprehensive adoption of an objective oriented planning and monitoring
system for input requirements. activities   outputs and also processing tasks
within the accounting operations has vet to be implemented.
X     Staff Rotation Schemes: Implementation of staff rotation schemes for the
lower cadre staff in the various sections of Accounts Division has been
implemented.
*     Bank Reconciliation: The updating of a two year back-log in Bank
Reconciliation activity was implemented.
*     Decentralization of the task of Preparation of Payment Vouchers: Efforts
to decentralize the task of voucher preparation to the departrnents have also
been made.
The bulk of recommendations emanating from the Accounts Review have yet to be
implemented by the ministry. While it was the responsibility of the task force to generate
suitable recommendations the actual impiementation of the recommendations was logically an
agenda for the ministry and not ASMP 11.
The rate of implementation (of the recommendations emanating from the task force
report on Accounts and indeed all other recommendations contained in the review reports of
22



other critical tasks will very much depend on:
|  -  the commitment of senior management level in MALD&M  responsible for
overall execution ot the these critical tasks.
-     The extent to which  Treasury  within the Mfinistrv of Finance plays a
supportive role in the implementation activities since some of the
recommendations relate to issues that Treasury has an oversicht role
Review of the Supplies Function
The execution and management of the Supplies Function in MALD&M is another
critical Task whose performance was reviewed .
In summarv. the terms of reference for the task force that carried out the review were as
tollows: -
*     review the execution of the supplies functions at both the HQ's and field level
but with emphasis at the HQs where more problems are experienced
*     identifv inherent constraints
-     propose suitable recommendations accompanied
The methods used for the review were almost similar to those used for the Accounting
function where interviews are conducted with both the providers and the recipients of supplies
services. The task force members provided a rich source of information . Other Government
offices concerned with supplies function are also being consulted e.g. Ministry of Public
Works and Housing and also Ministry of Finance where the national office for supplies
scrvices is located.
The findings of the review are contained in a report entitled "The Review of Supplies
Services in the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development" produced in Dec. 1997
bv the task force on Critical Operating Tasks. The report  shows  that there is low
effectiveness and efficiency in the execution of the supplies function in the ministry relating
to the procurement tasks. stores management and the assets disposal function at both the
ministrv  headquarters and field level. However the  constraints and weaknesses in
procurement tasks are greater at the hqs than at the field level. Another observation is that the
areas in which constraints and weaknesses in execution of supplies function are found are not
restricted to supplies system since operations in several other areas in the ministry highly
impact on the on the performance of the supplies function. e.g. work planning. budgeting and
flow of'funds. Therefore the recommendations from these review also pertain to a wider area
than supplies the supplies system.  A   summary of the highlights of the findings and
recommendations emanating from the review is given in the following section.
Highlights of Constraints/Weaknesses
Inadequate procurement planning in the MALD&M
Lack of effective linkages between procurement requirements and financial
requirements both with regard to level of funding and the timing of the release
of funds.
23



Excessive delavs in pavments by the Ministry to the suppliers of goods and
services thus eroding the credibilitv of the Ministrv with regard to meeting its
financial oblieations. to suppliers
Inefficient processing of documents and information pertainine to procurement
amonz the various plavers in the procurement process both within the ministrv
and between ministry and other organization.
Inefficient execution ot the financial and accounting procedures
Inadequate transparency in execution of some of the tasks of the procurement
process
Inadequate training ot officers expected to handle the management of supplies
services in the ministrv.
The hiahli2hts of recommendations emanating trormt me review of supplies function are
presented in the following pages.
Highlights of Recommendations emanating from the Supplies Review
The following is a summary of improvement proposals on the Ministry of Agriculture's
Supplies and Procurement Functions. These proposals relate to a wider spectrum of functions
other than Supplies and Procurement owing to the fact that the performance of tasks in these
other functions highly impact on the execution of Supplies and Procurement functions.
Identified constraints and weaknesses in the management of procurement and other supplies
and disposal services were found to be highly negativelv impacting on the overall
implementation of the ministry's programmes and projects.
The highlights of the recommendations are divided into the following categories.
I     Recommendations Relating to Work Planning Budgeting and Flow of Funds
These are recommendations that aim at institutionalizing standard work program
and procurement plans as basis of budgeting. The proposals will improve vertical and
horizontal information flows with regard to work programming. procurement planning
and budgeting. Work programmes/plans should henceforth become a prerequisite to
budgeting.  Without work programmes/plans including procurement plans, the
objective of using budget as a performance and control measure is defeated.
II    Recommendations Directlv Relating to Execution of Procurement and Supplies
Tasks
The proposed improvements on Procurement and Supplies are intended to
enhance efficiency and effectiveness in the execution of these functions and also to
tighten certain control measures. with which some of the supplies tasks are executed.
Recommendations Relating to Privatization & Conmmercialization Proposals
These recommendations are int6nded to improve on the management of supply services
24



in the ministrv and also to enhance the efficiencv and effectiveness with which some of the
supplies tasks are executed.
TV    Improvements Relating to Overall General Management of Supplies and Procurement
Functions in Ehe Ministry
These are intended to enhance the overall administration and management of
supplies and procurement tasks.
*     Establishment and Mlaintenance of a MIaster Assets Inventorv for the Mlinistrv
This recommendation is intended to enhance the management of the ministry's material
resources
VT    Automation and Linkage of Information Svstems Svstem
The proposals on this category will enhance the performance of the ministrv in
executing its functions through improvement of its internal Management Information
Svstem relating to Financial Management.
VII   Proposals Relating to the Standard Applications Across Government
These are intended to enhance efficiency in the execution of the supplies function by
mainlv by revising certain areas of the current procedures.
I     Recommendations Relating to Work Planning Budgeting and Flow of Funds
Adoption of standardized work programming and reporting tools and procedures
including formats. This standardization should be effected within the ministry and
between the ministry and donors. Donor information requirements for planning and
reporting format should be included in the ministry's standardized formats.
- Make mandatorv requirements for work programmes and procurement planning as a
basis for all budgeting thus institutionalizing the systems and fulfilling the critical need
to svnchronize work programming. procurement planning and budgeting. In addition
all work plans and procurement plans should adopt thefinancial vear time frame and
not the calendar year.
-     Strengthen the bottom-up approach to work programming, procurement planning and
budgeting. This will require all spending centers to originate prioritized work plans.
.procurement plans and budgets. Efforts will also be made to involve beneficiaries
where possible. In order for the spending stations to formulate reasonable budgets they
will require ceilings for both forward budget and draft estimates.
- Disaggregate the entire ministry's budget to all the spending stations thus reflecting the
budget for each spending station. This will ensure transparencv and also serve as a measure
to facilitate flow of funds to the spending stations.
-    Work plans for all activities  should are updated at the end of each quarter by the
25



Spending Units. The updated WVork- Plan and Budget Sunmmary (along with the
Procurement Plan and the Cash Flowv Projectionsi are submitted to the ministrv at the
start of the FY and at the end of each quarter.
The cash flow projections/cash requirements projections should be based on work
prograrnme/plans and procurement plans. This should continuouslv he up-dated and
revised as the financial vear unfolds.
Introduce implement measures to effect linkazes between work programming and
hud2eting on one hand and phvsical and financial implementation monitoring on the
other as well as execute implementation progress reviews.
- The ministry should circulate a standard letter to all AIE holders. District Treasuries and
PMG confirrning that a given percentaze of the annual budget is available for spending over
a specified quarter. The circular letter shall be accompanied by detailed allocation schedules
bound in form of a booklet showing account code. description and amount.
The issuing of authority to incur expenditure (AIEs) on quarterlv or half vearlv basis
should be based on the approved work proerammeiplan.
Ultimately automate all information related to work prozramming. procurement.
planning and budgeting and link the svstem to supplies and accountinz svstems.
1I    Recommendations Relating to Execution of Procurement and Supplies Tasks
Forward planning for procurement should be carried out by all spending
stations through the generation of annual procurement plans that shall
accompany and become part and parcel of annual work plan and annual budget.
The procurement plans will be submitted to the supplies office for each
spending station to facilitate the planning and execution of procurement tasks
particularly those that require lead time. The procurement plans should also be
submitted along with work plans and budgets to the ministerial planning and
budget committee.
Users to take full responsibility for originating goods specifications while supplies
personnel take only an advisory role.
Users to prepare specifications for all items in the procurement plan and submit along
with the procurement plan.
Users to be represented in the technical evaluation and endorse the evaluation report.
-     The ministry to effect standardization of office equipment and furniture in
,.    order to deter misapplication of funds in procurement of inappropriate items
and luxury items.
-     Preparation by the ministry, in conjunction with Treasury, of standard reference
tables from Development Credit Agreements and distribution of the same to all
AIE holders, Supplies Offices and Accounts Division
Users and Supplies offices to effect cross checking the validity of procurement
with procurement plan and relevant information from Development credit
agreements documents
26



Develop an improved supplier register through pre-qualification of suppliers
and progressive svstematic monitoring of their performance.
Supplies Office in ministry to extend the available information on the Supplies
Catalog to (a include columns for price ranges. with price lists being updated
at least once everv quarter: (b) include items not included in the central Supplies
Catalog.
Implement recommendations generated by the study on the Review of the
Accounts Functions in the ministry. Among others thev include the introduction
of a svstem to monitor elapsed time taken between the various stages of
processing of pavments vouchers by introducing a payment routing slip. This
will complement other steps being taken to reduce liquidity problems.
Implement Treasurv Circular No. 13 of August 1997 that stipulates that the use
of irrevocable letter of credit facilitated through bank should be employed in
order to speed up pavments oft goods to overseas supplies. The use of such
svstem  effectivelv transfers anv expected liability of loss of goods to the
suppliers. until such goods are received bv the client. Effectivelv port clearance
delays demurrage and warehouse charges. will not be borne hv the government.
Employ the use of Gazettement Notice to facilitate taster approvals in
exemption otf goods from customs duty. The advantage of such a svstem is that
the approvals can effected in good time before goods actualiv arrive at port.
However. detailed information about the goods and the project that is financing
the procurement has to be availed in the application of the Gazette Notice. Also
all project credit agreement should include a tax exemption clause for ease of
reference by Treasurv and the Attornev Generals office.
The receipt of goods should be certified by minimum  of three people
comprising of the AIE holder, stores officer. a member of the technical
evaluation team in relevant cases. In case of civil works. the endorsement by
beneficiary representatives should be a re requirement on the Counter Receipt
Voucher before payment is effected.
/
Goods being received shouldbe checked against LPO register.
[II    Recommendations Relating to Privatization & Commercialization Proposals
Ministry to consider the possibility of privatizing most of its Transport services
through the employees to retain only a manageable fleet of public vehicles.
Ministry to commercialize the function of disposing unserviceable and surplus
stores
The ministry should recommend to Treasury that the role of the ministry of
Public Works and Housing as a supplier of goods and services should be
reviewed with a view to privatizing appropriate roles.
The ministry to consider semi privatization/commercialization of the of a few
services/tasks in the supplies function such as procurement of certain
categories of goods through private procurement agents. Also supplies
tasks/services  best executed  through semi privatized or commercialized
processes to be identified and recommended for the same. e.g the disposal of
unserviceable  and surplus goods.    A comprehensive  review  of semi
privatization /commerciilization requirements in such in such areas and
27



appropriate modes and procedures should be carried out. Such approaches
could include contracrual arrangements with the private sector or the use of
semi autonomous agencies.
IN    Improvements Relatin  tlo Overall  General Management of Supplies and
Procurement Functions
The ministry should take concrete steps in order to improve overall general
management ot supplies services. These steps are:-
Continue w-ith decentralisation or some ot the tunctions of Supplies Division
at the hqs to user departments.
Formulation of a suitable schedule ot duties for all supplies staff giving clear
responsibility.
Adopt result based wvork plans for the supplies function with clear inputs.
activities and outputs. Formulation of activities will he based on the
procurement plans received from users and also the other supplies broad
activities of stores management . market survevs and management
inspection.
Put in place a system tbr monitoring the performance ot the execution of the
planned supplies activities.
Optimize staffing levels for supplies staff and give them training in procurement
includine donor auidelines. ceneral manasement .stores management,
information management including computer training.
Enhance logistic support for supplies services.
V Establishment and Maintenance of a Computerised Master Assets Inventory for the
M inistrv
Periodic inventory status printouts for each station should be sent to all stations on
which amendments/additions will be made and returned to the HQs to update the master
inventory
V  Automation and Linkage of Information Systems Relating Work &Procurement Planning,
Budgeting. Supplies and Accounts System
After implementation of the proposed improvements in supplies manazement s within
the manual framework. the ministry should automate all information systems in Work
plans and Budgeting, flow of Funds. Accounts and Supplies .It should also link them
to make a coherent computerised Financial Management Information System which will
part of the entire ministry 's Information Management System to be developed under
Agricultural Sector Investment Proeram.
VII   Proposals Relating to the Standard Applications
Proposed Improvements
28



-The requiremiient to seek bor Dutyv VAT exemption t'or ministry s imported goods should
be removed.
Formalization ot the letter or acceptance to he an accentahle accountable document or
introduction of a counter LPO against the letter of acceptance to tacilitate recording of
the commitment in the ministry s vote hooks.
- Planned cash tlow (expected e\.hequer issues and A.1.. A    to he released and collected
p proiected.
It is recommended that tor an effective control of these tormsidocuments some of
which shall still remain accountable should he customized i.e. havinag forms bearing
individual Nlinistrv's name).
The tormsidocuments e.g. vouchers. LPOs. Imprest forms. etc. should hear check list
of requirements & conditions on the reverse side. All forms & documents should be
,.arhonized.
Treasury to review and provide reasonable ceilings in order to keep up with effects of
Xhanging prices. Ceilings should he reviewed annualIv.Relating to Work Planning
Budgetnng and
'.4 Establishment of a computerised updatable Assets Inventory for NIALD&M.
Ohjective
The objective of establishin2 a master inventory for the ministrv's assets is to enhance
the efficiencv with which the ministry's physical resources are managed as well as
enhancing optimal decision making in other functional areas of the ministry. Such an
inventorv was intended for use for the following purposes:-
-     enhance decisions tak-en in the procurement of new items for each spending
station
easilv keep track of all items due for disposal therefore facilitating forward
planning and execution of the disposal activities.
tfacilitate more efficient allocation of resources among the spending stations
enhance the securitv of the physical resources
provide a basis for formulating  the maintenance budget for the ministry's
assets
Activities carried Out
A major survev to collect data and information on the Ministrv entire assets has
been conducted in all the Ministry's spending stations up to divisional level in
the field.
The data generated byv the survey has been computerized using d-base and
29



printouts of the inventorv distributed to all the spending stations for purposes
of confirmation of the data . The master inventorv data base has been handed
over to the property control section of the ministrv
Futui Activities for the Assets Inventory
Trainin_ or personnel in property control section of the ministry in basic computer
skills and also in d-hase programme to facilitate the management ot the assets inventory
data base
Lpdating of the assets inventory on an annual basis and also as soon as a new asset is
acquired. The updatinQ can be done through amendments of printouts that should be
sent to the spendine stations every year. A photocopy of the receiving document for
each newly acquired assets i.e. the S 13 should also he used for purposes of updating.
Rationalise the allocation ot physical resources according to the activities and staff
levels in each spendina station
Make use of the inventorv for purposes alreadv mentioned above
Eventuallv computerise  assets inventorv data in each spending station  and train
relevant personnel in the necessary computer skills. After the computerisation in the
spending stations updating process can be effected in each station using the data base
in the spending stations and send updated information to the HQs in diskettes.
'.    Implementation of Recommendations emanating from studies on Critical Tasks
The bulk of the recommendations emanating from the studies on critical tasks
have yet to be implemented . While it was the responsibility of ASMP 11 to generate
recommendations the responsibility for implementing the recommendations lay with
the ministrv   The following are some of the constraints pertaining to implementation
of these recommendations
-     Hieh  staff turnover in kev senior management position  from  which
implementation was to be effected thus creating information gaps and
discontinuitv of the implementation agenda
-     Lack of firm  commitment to implementation of recommendations and a
preference for the status quo in some of the management levels .
-     Lack of financial resources  for the implementation  of financial based
recommendations.
The rate of implementation of the recommendations emanating from the task
force report on Accounts and indeed all other recomrnendations contained in the
review reports of other critical tasks will very much depend on the following:-
(i)   the commitment of senior management level in MALD&M  responsible for
overall execution of the these critical tasks.
ii}    The extent to which 'Treasurv  within the Ministrv of Finance plays a
supportive role in tiheimplementation activities since some of the
30



recommendations relate to issues that Treasury has an oversight role
iii    Availabilitv of financial resources  for implementation of financial based
recommendations
ivx    A reduced rate of turn over at the senior management level of the ministry
4.    The Proposed Improved Financial Management Svstem:
The ministrv of Aariculture is to serve as a pilot ministrv for implementation
ot identitied  improvements in standard government financial management system
within the proposed Agriculture Sector Investment Programme. The components of the
proposed system consists of the above critical tasks for which review studies have
been carried out e.g. Work planning, Flow of Funds. Accounts and Procurement
Svstem. The constraints identified and  recommendations generated by these studies
on Critical Tasks provides a needs analvsis for the proposed improved financial
manacement system. Therefore logicallv follows that the recommendations generated
hy studies on critical tasks should be implemented through the proposed Financial
Management System
5     Achievements of the Critical Tasks Sub-component:
The objective of the reviews on critical tasks was to generate implementable
recommendations which when implemented would  address the inherent weaknesses
and constraints in the execution of these tasks inorder to improve the perforrnance
with which these tasks are executed thereby enhancing the performance with which
the entire ministry's functions are executed. To this end the sub-component has its
objective in generating the recommendations. However the full impact of the reviews
on critical tasks will only be felt when the ministry implements the full set of the
recommendations that the reviews have generated.
31



ACTION TRAINING SUB-COMPONENT
Introduction:
Purpose of the Report: Action Traininm is linlked to rthe Institutional Development
focus on the project and is a Subcomponent of the Capacitv Building Component of
ASMP It. Action Trainine Activities have been implemenited since the inception of
the ASMP 11 in 1993/94. This is a completion report on these activities.
ASMP II Training Objectives
The broad objectives ot ASMP 11 Action Training Programmes are the following:
-     To hielp strengthen and support thie capacitv of the Ministries involved in
ASMP II to improve policv formulation. Mtanage projects and programs and
deliver technical services in a liberalized agriculture sector.
*     To lhelp sectoral stakeholders and technical leaders understand and be
committed to the new role. functions and structure of Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock Development & Marketing (MALD&M).
To strengthen and support project activities in order to ensure that project
objectives are met as envisaged.
What was to be done over the Period of Project Life (1993/94 1997/98); and
Achiements:
Annual Training Plans were prepared FY 1993/94. 1994/95S 1995/96; 1996197
and 1997/98 in collaboration with the relevant ministries. The plans comprised the
following programmes.
Long-termn Training Programmes:
The project provided funds for about 20 - 40 scholarships for postgraduate
(masters level) programmes to be mounted primarily in Kenyan Universities, except
in disciplines not offered, by local universities, when overseas institutions would be
used. To date 31 scholarships have been offered and funded. Out of these, 30
trainees completed and one trainee passed away. The remaining 9 were offered but
not funded because the courses were going to run beyond the credit closing date then
set for 31st December, 1997. The primary aim of the long term training programme
was to provide the ministry with technical and management fields in order to improve
the performance of the ministries. Courses, including trainees to be sponsored were
selected by the ministries and approved for implementation by the Project's
Management Implementation Committee (MIC). As Training Needs Assessment
(TNA) had not been done, initial training focus was on management and related
courses. It was hoped thkt more emphasis would be placed on technical courses after
32



tie cornPletlol ot TNA.   Details or nosm-racuate courses. including names or
participants. courses. iistitutioils and course duration,. total number trained. etc. are
in Anniex  i. hinmlementation nottlenecks are -:immarized in part 4 ot thiis report.
Allocation or short-term  and lone-tcrm  c;,holarships to participating
ininistries is provided in Table I below:
33



Tabl  1:          AUocaion of ASMP 11 Sckolarships under Capacity Bulding and Oilseeds Subsector Components to pakticipatisag .inistries - A Sumnaiy
BENEI CIARY                          1993/94                  1994/95                 1995 96                1996 97                19977.9R               I(I 1.1I
(lAliaisfry/l)epad,nenh/l)isi',oa    'Posto         Sh ur-   I'ost-       Shonn-tenn   I'o.t-        Short-   P'st-         Shiport-   1'Mt-       SlIdn-   Iost-         Short-
(,raduate J  terin     graditat                  gradwlslt.ic   re rl   graduugg t   u rne     qraduiumi    turin     griduath   ft ril
e
1.     Alisfistry of Agriculture
I)Dep. of Agriculture                          4           I         -            13            .         57           -          Mu                     54          4         211
Ikeps. of Lhestock Production                 I           -         1            7                        24         2          42                      17          .1         91
Iept. of Veterinary Senices                    3           .         1            7                       24           -         49                      ! 2         4         1913
Vei'elopmenit I'lanning lViviio,a              3           I         3            I             2          1          5           3                      h          1.1         12
Human Resources Der. Division                  -           I         -            2             -          I                            l                             1        7
MSate (orporations )ivijio,                    I                     -            -                                               -                      -           I
lFiance D)ivisiona                                                   .            .                        I                      I                      J4                     t
Adini,aistrationa Dirisjio-                                                                                                       4                      4 J  J
Personnel lDisision                                        .         .                                     .           .                                 i                      i 
Supplies l)irision                                                                                                                                       I                      I
Ac ounts l)iriiona                            .                                                           7           -                                             .          I I
2.     llinistr vo Co oopper4fie lkrelopinent           I                     I            I                        I                                             !           !           t
3.     Alinistry of Finance (Treasury)                                                                              2           I                      I                      2          2
4.     Kctqa Agricuhtairal Research Instittile                                                                      17          -          21                     17                     ;
(IKARI)
S.     O)ilrecds Industry (lridratc Sector)                         -          -                                    24          -          -                                             21
=  13       1J         6           31            2         15 9         9          .           I          Ji9      1   i--     _;
34
(



Short-term Courses:
Included under shiort-term courses are cour,es ot upto six (6)
monitlis orfered locallv and( overseas: %korKshoDs and study tours.
a.    Short-termn Scholarships
The proJect provided tfunds tor about 20 shiort-term  scholarships
tenable overseas and within the region. The aim of short-term training
program was to build awareness among key managers of the Ministrv
on the Institutional Development Process and potential benefits from
tlem. To date 85 candidates have benefited from these awards. 10 of
which were offered overseas. aind 75 within the region (Eastern and
Southern Africa). Using regionial training institutions and relativelv
shorter courses. upto 8 weeks. enabled thle proiect to train more
officers through short In-house courses discussed below.  Details of
these courses are provided in Annex 2.
b.    Short-term  In-house cotirses
The project organized short-term in-lhouse courses listed below to help
MOA meet its big demand for management and technical skills in
areas addressed bv the courses: and also to help strengthen core
functions of the ministry. The courses were organized in collaboration
with local public and private sector training institutions such as Kenya
Institute of Administration (public) and Professional Training
Consultants ( private) selection of training institutions was done
through competitive tender procedures approved bv both the
Government and the World Bank. To date 306 trainees have attended
these courses. Another 150 trainees hiave attended in-house courses
organized by the Oilseeds Subsector component (details in Oilseeds
Subsector report) bringing the total for the courses to 456. See Table
2 for summary and Annex 3 for details.  The In-house courses
organized by Capacitv Building Component are:
Management Development Programmes: Introduction to
Management Principles and Practices six (6) two weeks
courses attended by 137 District Agricultural Officers;
District Veterinary Officers; District Livestock Production
Officers; Heads of Departments of Staff Training Institutions
and Subject Matter Specialist (job Group 'M') based at the
provincial and headquarters levels; and two three week
course attended by 47. Total trained 184.
Training of Trainers - One (I) three weeks course attended by 20
lecturers from staff Training Institutions.
-3
35



Computer A\plications tor AX ricuzuranl N\ananers - One ( I t ihree
weeks course auended by I5  i Ui Deputy Directors. 3
.\ssisrant Direc:ors: one I 'nder Secretary and one Principal
Personnel Otf'icer)
1'Woiect P!anninig and Mianagement - )ne ( I t hree weeks course
attended by sixteen ( i mniddle level agriculturai managers.
Introductioni to Statistical Package tor Social Scientists (SPS)
software - two (2) weeks course attended bv 28 participants:
and one three weeks course attended bv 22 participants.
Total trained 50.
Introductioni to Cornputer .Apglications' for Agricultural M1anagers.
One tour weeks course attended bv 21 Assistant Directors.
Ptiblic Finance tor Non-Financial Manaaers. One two week's
course attended bv 21 District Heads who are Authoritv to
Incur Expenditure (AIE) Holders.
The courses have proved useful and popular as they have given more
officers the opportunity to enhance their skills in the subjects addressed
by the courses.  Interim  evaluation report by the Training Needs
Assessment Consultant indicate that stating the objectives of each
course clearly and lengthening the duration of the courses to 4 weeks
would have enhanced the value of the courses more.
36
Y 



37
Iabl)e 2:     Scholarships provided anid Numlbe  of Bleieliciaries - Capacity Buiildimig and Oilseeds Subsector Cowposiesits
AKSXii, -,                                                                                                         TO(T)AL
CM1IP( )NEI*lS        POTG It()SIA(R IUATIE            SIORT-TEIRNtI TRA INING PROGRA MINIES                       NUIMIIIER
I'KR )( .: K      1\1 Iv 11  g1014lS t -terim  Simort-teri iiit wiiti  S;hail-telrm In-     OF
0)verseas              the Region             holise                 T'RAINEES
No. of       No. of    Scholorships  Trainees  Scholarships  Irminees  Scholarships  Tainees  Posd-   Shott
._____________  c. holarship   errinmes                    ____.__g_aduale  lena
Capacity liuilding       20 -40       30          20         10                     8S           -         306       30       401
(omponenis
Oilseeds Subseelor         -           -          30         14                                390         150                164
Componoent
7r)7XT1L IOlTl          20 - 40       30         S0          24                     8S         390         456       30       S6S
COMMEONIiNTS
37
I,



Works nons
The proiect orzamized several workshops attended by public and
private sector participanits to support its activities in Capacity Building.
Cotton and Sucar Subsectors Components.
Post evaluation of tile Workshiops done indicate that tlhey hiad the
following outcome:
Helped develop a more positive attitude. support and commitment of
stakelholders to project -oals. objectives and activities.
Enabled the project to identifv future role. core functions.
MiALD&M activities to be privatized/commercialized and the
structure ot the ministry.
Enabled officers of the three technical departments to exchange
views and experiences. This helped to strengthen working
relationships among the three departments and divisions.
Enabled the identification of critical Tasks and Management issues
addressed by the project.
Assisted with the preparation of sugar subsector Mid Term and
Final Reports: the review of Cotton Subsector Consultant's
reports: and with the review of Staffing Norms Anlalvsis. and
Training Needs Assessment reports.
Enabled the preparation of the PPM and the project's plans of
operations FY 1994/95. 1995/96 and 1996/97.
Enabled Officer Consultants to acquire skills in facilitating
workshops.
d.    Studv Tours
The project provided for visits by key managers of the Ministry to
selected institutional management improvement activities in Africa
and Asia. It was not possible to undertake these visits because of
problems of scheduling.
38



e.     Constiltancies:
Staffing Norms Analvsis (SNA) and Training Needs Assessment
(TNA) studies were started in Mid-December. 1996.
The SNA and TNA are a part of tlie on-going efforts by the Ministry
to rationalize its role, functions and structure. to enable it provide
efficient and effective services to the agricultural sector.  The two
studies will provide the ministry with the necessarv data to enable it
optimize its staff requirements in terms ot numbers and quality; to
rationalize its staff establishment and to plan and develop appropriate
short and long-term  human resources development /management
programmes that will enhance efficiencv and productivity of the
Ministrv.
Stafring Norms Analysis (SNA):
The SNA had the following TORs:
Review and prepare appropriate Job Descriptions and Job
Specifications for all technical and selected administrative
positions in the Ministry in order to help develop appropriate
staffing norms and optimize the size of the establishment.
Prepare optimum. rationalized and more refined staffing norms
which would help rationalize the management and use of
staff resources based on planned scale of services to be
offered, including on-going and planned projects.
Examine, identify and propose Ministry staff requirements. in
quantitative and qualitative terms, over the next 5 - 10 years,
indicating precise current surpluses and deficits for individual
departments and services.
Propose Ministry staff establishment targets (projections). for all
staff cadres, suggest optimum pace of rationalization and
rationalization timetable options for consideration by the
Ministry and Government.
Examine and propose amendments to existing schemes of service for
all technical and selected administrative staff with a view to
making them more attractive and competitive. In addition,
propoit new schemes of service where necessary.
39



1
-     Prepare detaiied shiort and long term (3 - 1) vears) Human
Resources Development Plans to improve staff qualitv and
performance and adjust overall technical and administrative
staff to targeted numbers.
-     As a part of the above three to ten vears plan. specifv mechanisms
and programmes to support its implementation.
The SNA Revised Final Report was submitted to the Ministry in February
1998 for a final decision. The report was studied bv the SNA Technical
Steering Committee (TSC) in March. The TSC found the report acceptable
and made a recommendation to the Ministerial Policy Advisorv Committee
(MPAC) to accept the report. The MPAC decision on SNA Revised Final
Report is expected anytime now.
Results of SNA:
The study has recommended tilat the Ministry adopts and implement short-
term (up to 3 years). medium-term (upto 5 years) and Long-term (upto 10
years) Human Resources Development plans (HRD) outlining amongst other
things mechanisms, programmes and cost of implementing SNA
recommendations on:
The improvement of Human Resources Planning and
Administration with specific recommendations on:
the development and implementation of appropriate and more
refined Staffing Norms for the Ministry.
the Ministry's staff requirements in quantitative and qualitative
terms over the next 3 - 10 years.
the rationalization of Ministry staff establishment which includes
amongst other things, a smaller staff establishment;
retrenchment, redeployment, recruitment, training and
promotions.
The improvement of Staff motivation, job satisfaction and work
productivity, with specific recommendations on:
-     New and updated Job Descriptions and job specifications for
ninety nine (99) technical generic positions and five
(administrative) generic positions in the newly
t structured ministry.
40



- New anid eninanced  chiemes of service for all technical and
selected adminlistrative scatr.
- Strengthinellul  inaiacemenit skills of ministrv staff through
management training.
The strengthening the Human Resource Development and
Personnel Management Divisions of the Ntinistrv.
Training N'eeds Assessment (TNA):
The TORs for this studv are:
Carrv out a comprehensive training needs analvsis for MALD&M and
identifv its strategic, tunctioial, occupational and individuals
training needs of all staff cateoories emploved by the Ministry.
Propose  relevant short,  medium  and  long-term  training  and
development programmes that would cope effectively with
identified training needs. Indicate ways and means to support
the implementation of the programmes.
Look into and make recommendations on the current and future
mandates of existing MALD&M staff training institutions, and
on ways and means to strengthen them.
Look into and make recommendations on the current and future
programmes and curricula of agricultural education at
universities.
-     Estimate the short, medium and long-term costs of implementing the
recommended training and development programmes.
-     Evaluate ASMP II year 1, 2, and 3 training plans and make proposals
to improve future plans.
The study is still in progress. The Ministry is currently studying the TNA
Draft Final Report. It is expected that this study will be completed about
June, 1998 or later if the Ministry maintain the present pace of reviewing the
reports. Nevertheless it is expected that the study will propose short-term
(upto 3 years) and long-term (upto 10 years) training and development plans
outlining amongst other things, mechanisms, programmes and cost of
implementing these plans to:
41



Address sataf DertorinancC fac;nrs iientitified
Meet Training and development nieeds -enitified
Rationalize and strengthen existing MIOA staff training institutions
and assist them prepare and implemenlt recommended mandates.
Strengetlen Humani Resources Development: and Training and
Development functions of the Slinisrrv.
It is clear that this activitv mav not be completed bv June. 1998 as
indicated above. Arrangements, that include continued fundinl to ensure
that it is successfully completed need to be put in place.
f.    The Long-Term Training Plan (LTTP) - 1998/99 - 2000/2001:
The LTTP or a comprehensive training plan, would have been
prepared by November. 1994. However this was not possible as the
restructuring of MOA had not been completed. Consequently the
LTTP was delaved and only started in Januarv, 1998. A draft LTTP
is being considered by the Ministry and will be reviewed when the
Training Needs Assessment Study is complete. The preparation of the
Draft L1TP was spearheaded by ASMP If Action Training Consultant
in collaboration withi the Human Resources Development Division and
MOA's technical departments. The plan
Identifies some problems and constraints affecting the
performance of the Ministry, its personnel and its statf
training and development institutions.
-     sets objectives to be pursued and strategies that would help
develop sustainability.
-     Proposes long term and short term training programmes to
strengthen the ten core functions of MOA
-     Proposes actions to strengthen and support MOA staff
training institutions
-     Propose collaboration with other local agricultural training
institutions
-     Recommends continued monitoring and a comprehensive
evaluation of the LTTP during its final year.
42



-     Provide an indicative hudget tor the suooesied trainning
programmes
IMPLEMENTATION BOTTLENECKS:
The main ones have been:
Lack of an explicit and comprehensive human resources development
policv for the ministrv. What exists is rather disiointed and serves the
narrow needs of the technical departments
Big demand. bv ministry personnel. for relevant training which require
more resources than the project could afford.  This was further
compounded bv the lack ot a comprehensive long-term training plan
for the ministrv.
Lack of qualified trainers. training managers and hluman resources
development specialists
Rising cost of training locally and overseas limits the ability of the
ministry to meet identified training needs with available resources
which continue to get scarce and inadequate.
*     Most trainees prefer overseas training institutions to local for various
reasons which include frequent closures of local universities and poor
training facilities.
-     Resistance to change bv some Senior Officers of the ministrv slowed
down implementation progress.
4.    WHAT REMAINS TO BE DONE:
The major remaining tasks are:
The analysis, preparation and implementation of the short,
medium and long-term human resources development plans
recommended by the Staffing Norm Analysis study report.
The analysis, preparation and implementation of the
recommendations of the Training Needs Assessment, including the
completion and implementation of the Long Term Training Plan
Strengthening and support of existing units and structures
performing human resources development- and training and
development functions in the ministry.
43
--     -     .I 



5.    CONCLUSION:
Thie SN.\ ,Incl TNA studies ha\e made useful recommendations on0 how the
NIOA can rationalise and train its huinanl resources to make them more
efficient and productive. It is likeelv that most of tchese recommendations
together with those emanating t'rom the A.SNIP 11 studies will not be
implemented because or lack of follow-tip amd ownership as uniits of the
.Ministry of the Nlinistrv carry out these tasks mav not have the capacitv to
do so unless thev are considerablv strengtlhened to do so. Such an
eventualitv should not be allowed to happenl conidering all the efforts and
resources spent in generating the recommendations. It is therefore.
important and necessarv that the Ministrv and tile \Vorld Bank take lead in
preparing the funding plans to implement these recommendations
Tile Capacitv Building Component made major contributionls in identifving
the new role, functions. structure of M(OA. and in identifvina NIOA's
activities to he privatised/commercialized includingo the relevant strategies
for privatizationi/commercializatioii. Similarly, other ASMP 11 components
such as Cotton and Oilseeds Subsectors were to a large extent successful in
meeting objectives set. In addition, upto 565 MOA staff attended various
technical and management courses. This provided the Ministry with the
much needed technical and management skills. All these activities were
performed largely through workshops and coueses organised by the Action
Training Sub-ccomponent in collaboration with other components above. In
this connection, it is justifiable to conclude that considerable steps were
made in meeting the Action Training objectives stated above.
The targets set for the postgraduate and shiort-term  courses were
inadequate to meet the big demand for technical and management skills of
the Ministry. This is apparent from thie TNA studv Draft Final Report.
As training overseas is getting more and more costly and the training
resources aree getting more scarce and inadequate, efforts should be made
to encourage/assist local training institutions in both public and private
sector to expand and mount quality training programs. This will help MOA
train more personnel locally.
44



1.5 MONITORING AND MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
SUB-COMPONENT
Introduiction:
Trie monitoring of tile wlhole .\S.NIP 11 project and tihe development of a Management
Intformationi Svstem has been an important Mlanageinent responsibilitv righlt from the start of the
project to tile enid. The itmnpleimentationi moniitoring Ot oall the components hias been a major
concern to tihe manaaement throuehout tllC life of the projecr. The essence of the monitoring
initiative hias been to identify eariv enough iimplemenitation bottlenecks that militate against
timelv achievement ot project ohiectives so tlhat thirouglh appropriate feedback, early remedial
action bv the project implementors and overall project management can be instituted. In this
regard, the Monitoring and MIS sub-componenit hias been tracking the work of the other
components and sub-components of ASM1P If whiicih led to tile developmenit of an information
svstem that has facilitated decision making bv the prolect management.
To increase the utility and ensure sustainable and effective use of the information system
deriving from the monitoring activitv, the sub-component. over the project life, ensured:
i)    development of a regular feedback mechanism  tilroughi regular reports. The
Management Implementation Committee in particular hias been the immediate
recipienlt of such reports:
ii)   existence of action oriented Management so that whiere corrective action is
required, it is taken without undue delay.
Periodic reports and several ad hoc implemenitation briefs hlave been produced since the
project started.
Further. the need for a Management Information Svstem become increasingly urgent
as the information technology revolution continued to take hiold. This sub-component therefore
provided technical MIS support and training to the project. The OC responsible for the sub-
component has taken an active part in setting up of an expanded computer training program
for the Ministry. In particular, the OC, in conjunction with other computer consultants, has
undertaken periodic reviews of the in-house computer training programs, setting up a
computer training facilitv and a computer resoturces centre and has also liaised closely with
local institutions in mounting MIS courses for senior Ministry officials.
The OC, being a member of the Capacitv Building Team (CBT) fully participated in
the restructuring initiative of the Capacitv Building/institutional Strengthening Component.
Specifically, the OC has been a full time Task Force member of the following:
-     Staff skills Inventory;
45



.\ssets Inventory: ;un
Stalfinet Norm;s           1`.\ ),   t 1-;.:'~2 ' .c-S - TN \ Stc;c': und
-      I:fnrorveo FI'1anciall \tem   F \IS
O)etamls on Ille results ot the above Fask Iorce eains ha\ e been oresented earlier in tilis
report.
.As one will realise. tile nature or actIVties ulider z!h is suD-comiponent have been
continuous activities and not a one tune activity. The sub-coinpoiient has been service sub-
componenit. servicing as it did. ail lhe other sub-component particulary in tmhe realm of NIIS.
Aside from the Nlionicorin- activity whilch ias led to progress reports as tangible output. muci
of tlhe what hias been done under MIIS. ov-er the protect lite, constitute services that liave been
consumed directiv. Be that as it may. enumerated below are activities carried out under this sub-
component grouped inlto distinict carefories:
.,)    Project Inmpleemeitationi 'Ionitoring:
Contilued to undlertake periodic data collection and. maintaining close liaison
withi respective componenti impleinenitors. pro-actively molitored implemenltation
performance. The thrust of this initiative has been to ensure that project
implementationl as scheduled and tlhat specific milestonies are met on tine. Where
ccrrective action became necessarv, the initiation of eariv corrective action was
done.
Based on the informationl collected. prepared quarterly and semi-aniual progress
reports and other ad-lhoc reports and briets.
b)    Computer Training Program  and End User Stupport Services:
-      Working closelv with thle Computer Consultants in charge of Training, undertook
periodic reviews of the training program  and training modules with a view to
modifying  it taking  cognisance  of emerging  and  constantly  changing  IT
innovations.
Identified and coordinated MIS and other computer training programs, both in-
house and at other appropriate training institutions.
Installed computers procured under ASMP 11 and organised periodic and regular
servicing and maintenance.
Identified and pursued the procurement of requisite software applications.
46



*  Continued to *trrer "End User Cotjstiltaicv Services" to ASMIP 11 coinputei
sers. ,In particular, coniniui ledo otter consultanlcy services in professional "desk-
'OD ouniihillah    .
( an1Uned it nertorim "trouhile sh0OtinLu tasks" cmanaineL trom use of computers
A mi .n ATIP 11 humitng sucih as virus a[tack. loss o t data due to corrupted
UtsketteS or LlUe to power tailurc etc.
Occasionally prepared  Technical Specitications and carried out Technical
Evaltiations tnr hardware and software acquisition mar the Ministry.
c)    Information \laiapgenment and Data Collection:
Upon completioni of data collectionl for the Assets Inventory of tile Mlinistrv:
Oversaw the data entrv e-ercise and cleaning of the data to ensure data integritv.
Participated in the data analvsis and Elie subsequenit report writing with the
members of the Task Force on Critical Operating Tasks.
Took part in the Staff Skills exercise. and together with the OC in charge of
Strategic Studies. mapped out a strategy to institutionalize the regular updating
of the Staff Skills bv the departments. In particular. undertook the following:
organised and coordinated additional training programs on SPSS for the
personnel to be involved in updating the data:
identified and pursued the procurement of the requisite hiardware and
software for the departments:
Fullv participated in the deliberations of the Task Force on "Improved
Financial Mlanagement System". In particular took an active part in the
preparation of the Task Force report.
e)    Other Activities:
Took part in collaborative Capacitv Building Team Activities, many of which
centered on the restructuring of the Ministry. Specifically played a leading role
in the preparation of the final edition of the structure document.
Performed other assignments tihat were, from time to timne, assigned by the
Project Coordinator. Specifically served as the contact person for evaluation of
47



technical proposals for procurement ot conisultancy services. and evaluation of
subsequent consuliancv reports tor the DRSRS ana the Cooperative Components
of ASMP II.
48



1.6 PRIVATIZATION/COMMFRCIAI,1ZATION SUB-COMPONENT:
PROGRAMME MISSION'
To advise ministry on privatization and coinmercialization or tile agricultural sector.
PROGRAMME SCOPE
to generate sector policv reviews and strategic exit, entrv and mainitenlanlce plan profiles
for the privatization and commercialization of the aaricultural sector to be used as a
springboard for:-
i.    Privatization and commercialization of agricultural services (crop-related, livestock
production and veterinary services)
ii.    Establishment of a system  of commodities exchanges for tlec agricultural sector
(institutional. financial and operational aspects.
PROGRAMME STRATEGY
a.    Organise and conduct "evangelical" departmental. provincial and district workshops to
sensitize stakeholders within and outside the ministry to understand and participate in the
privacom process and its eventual implementation. Without these, privacom would come
and go without leaving any meaningful impact in the ministry.
B.    Mobilise a task force consisting of departmental working groups and a multidisciplinary
secretariat to prepare strategic public and private sector exit/entry/maintenance plan
profiles in 16 selected priority subject matter specialisations.
D.   Train departmental, provincial and district officers in tile ministrv to carry on with
follow-up work when the project comes to an end in order to realise the capacity building
objective of asmp ii.
C.    Use government. parastatal and private sector resource persons to generate required
information and perspectives and restructure. edit and publish the plan profiles.
49



PROG,RANIIE IMPLEMENTATION
MINISTERIAL INCEPTION  %NORKSHIOPS
3 workshiops were hield in 14Q5 9h as tollows
1. I   conceptual tramework or privacorn
1.2   situation anaivsis workshop
1.3   strategic planning workshop
6 additional worklshops should he held
to cover those kev officers llot covered in the present programme:
2.  DEPARTMENTAL IIEADQLARTER INCEPTION WORKSHOPS
3 workshops were hield in 1996/97 as follows
2.1   conceptual framework. situation analvsis. strategic planiniig worklshop for
crop-related services
2.2   conceptual frainework. situation analysis. strategic planniniag workshop for
livestock production services
2.3   conceptual framework, situation analysis. strategic planiiing workshop for
crop-related services
6 additional workshops should be held
to cover those key officers not covered in the present programme.
3.    COMNIODITY EXCHANGE PRIVACOMEX INCEPTION  WVORKSHOPS
3 worklshops were held in 1996/97 as follows
3. 1   institutional framework of commexes
3.2   financial frameworkl of commexes
3.3   marketing framework of commexes
6 additional workshops should be held
to cover those key officers not covered in the present programme.
4.    MINISTERIAL BRIEFING IVORKSHOPS INCEPTION WORKSHOPS
3 workshops were held in 1996/97 as follows
4.1   senior officers briefing (headquiarters)
4.2   provincial officers briefing
50
,



4.3   commex )-r:erinc
6 additional workshops snL)uld he lheld to cover tilose key otticers nor covered in ti
present programme. F;us wvrksliops sliouid als) address o)hlier Key stakeholders suci .
vile policv committee ot tile ministry  t;e Nlinister anid Assistant Nlinisters. o0i(e
M1inistries. kev politicians. and interested Donors
5.    PROSN lCIAl, I'RIV 1CONI INCEPTION  WORKSHOPS
5 workshons were held in 1997 98t as roilows
5. l   western provlince
5.2   nvanza province
5.3   north rift region
5.4   south rift regioni
5.5  niairobi/north eastern provinces (conbined)
The followiig schieduled workshiops were not lheld due to administrative and budgetarv
constraints.
5.6   Central province
5.7   Coast region
5.8   Eastern Province
They should be held in future to complete the picture.
Eastern Province will require two workshops because of its size.
The workshops should therefore re-scheduled as follows.
5.6   Central province
5.7   Coast region
5.8    Upper Eastern region
5.8    Lower Eastern Region
6.    PROVrNCIAL PRIVACOMI INCEPTION WORKSHOPS FOR SUBJECT MATTER
SPECIALISTS AND STAKEHOLDERS (1997/98)
These planned workshops were not approved due to
administrative and budgetary constraints.
These should be held in future as follows:-
6.1   western province
6.2   nyanza province
6.3   north rift region
6.4   south rift region
51



(.5   nairobi Pro-ince
f.6   Central Province
6.7   Coast nrovince
h.8  i.pper Easteril region
t,.9   Lower Eastern region
t). 10  N.N'orth Eastern Province
7.    DISTRICT PRIVACONI INCEPTION  WORKSHOPS U1997!98)
10 planned pilot w.orkshops w%ere not lheld due to administrative
and budpetary constraints.
At least One workshop sliould be held in eachi district in the future.
8     TRAINING OF TRAINERS PROGRAMMES
approved TOT course tor exit. cntrv anid maintenance planis was niot held due to
administrative and budgetarv constraints.
planned TOT course for Commex was not approved due to administrative and
budgetary constraints.
6     TOT courses. should be held in future as follows
8.1   TOT course for crop-related services
8.2   TOT Course for livestock production services
8.3   TOT course for crop-related services
8.4   TOT course on iistitutionial framework of commexes'
8.5   TOT course on financial framework of commexes'
8.6   TOT course on marketingioperational framework of coinrnexes-
{*: (crop-based)
9.    SHORT-TERM CONSULTANCIES
4     planned short term  (3 month) consultancies  ( for crop-related: livestock,
veterinaryv and commex services were not approved due to administrative and
budgetary constraints.
,. -6      short-term consultancies (3-6 months) shiould be lield in future in the following
areas.
9.1   Short-term consultancy on policv review strategic plans for crop-related
services
52



v 2   Short-term  conisultanicv on policy review strategic plans tor livestoc
production services
).3   Short-term cotnsulranlcv on noiicy review strategic plans tor crop-relate,
services
. 4   Short-term consultancv on institutional framework ot commexes and agro
industrial development
9.5   Short-term consultanicv on finanicial framework of commexes and agro-
industrial development
9.6  .Short-term consultanicv on marketino operational framework of commexes
and acro-industrial development
10.   PROGRAMINIE PERFORNIANCE
10..1        16 subsectors have been profiled and thieir exit/entrance and maintenance plans
will readv bv tihe end of June 1998. Ohlier profiles thac could have been covered
were not covered due to administrative and budgetarv constraints and these should
be continued bv tile TWGs witih effect from Ist Julv 1998. (draft f'inals are readv
and have been circulated to the departments and projects for review in the
following sub-sectors:
1:    CROP RELATED SERVICES
1. 1.  Seeds/Seedliing Production and propagation Services
1.2.  Commodity-based Extension Services
1.3.  Agricultural Mechanisation Services
1.4.  Farmers Training Centres
1.5.  Agricultural Information Centre
The agro-wg should have embarked on the following new profiles which should be
continued after the end of tile project with a view to stimulating or improving commex
mechanisms therein where applicable:
1.6          Coffee
1.7          Tea
I.8          Cotton
1.9          Sugar
1.10         Cereals
1.11         Horticulture
1.12         Sisal
1.13         Pyrethrum
53



II:    LIVESTOCK IPRODUCTION SERV ICES
2. 1.   fOildiil:' i(~uld'Lls ,.::u ()lItspallS
..:vesiocK ireeu   ,nporr ,cr'. B_s o
3.i.   !.A esEocK l;,-nro\ ement Firms
5.~~~~1 L.%le  !'! (joat ):ationls
25.   Poultry Rearing ('ViIts
2.6.   Beekeeping Equipmenet. WorkshoDs and Ret'ineries
Tile Lives- [\V(N; had einhar-Ked on: ,le rollowi n  new prot'iles whi icih sihould be continued
arter the en(i nor thc proiecr wxith a % iew to stirurint1e1o or improving cominex mechianiisms
tlherein where nDhi eahic::
2..   Livestock tra,inin  IlStitUUOnS
2.8.   Exotic livestock soecies
.9.   13eef in(dustry
2 10   Dairv industry
[I1:   VETERINARY S[ERVICES
3. 1   Vcterinarv ("'; nlical Services
3.2.   Tick Conitrol Services
3.3.   Artificial Insemination Services
3.4.   Veterinary Laboratorv Services
3.5.   Disease Control anc Veterinary Health Services
The Vet-TW\V    was to have einharked on the following new profiles whichi should be
continued after thie end of the protect with a view to stimulating or tmproving commex
mechanisms therein where applicable:
3.6.  [f ides and skins
3.7    Meat inspectioni services
3.8   IKenva meat commission
3.9    Keenva veterinary association privatization service
10.?         Over 300 officers and stakleholder in parastatals and the private sector have been
sensitised on privacom and commex (privacomex).
10.3         The privacom and commex messages have been fully accepted by the departments
and provinces and particuiarlv all those whio participated in the workshops.
1,0.4        The Ministry and the Departments will hiave a clear vision oni which way to go
with privacom and commex.
54



!0.5        If the proposed fuiture proeramme nr the minnisry vs fullv iunpleinelited. n
restructuring ot tihe inimstry ror greater etficicncv. etfectiVeness anid ecollOiT
will achieve ireater rneanime and a[ua;:, k:ramatic results.
10.6        If diligentiv  iin leinenited. privacom u,,2d  cnimnmex  \n %ll revolutionise  th
acricultural sector in tiiis couiltrv.
10.7        The success of the programme in the sector will have tile potential for applicatioi
to other sectors with correspondingiv dramatic results.
10.8        The success of the programme in the Kenya will have the potential for application
to other countries in the region lwithi correspondingoly dramatic results
11.          PRIN'CIPLE  CONSTRAINTS  IN  IMPLEMENTING  PRIVACOM  AND
COMN NI EX
l1.1         Lack of appreciation anid uinderstanding of the policv of econoinic liberalization
and message and scope of privacom and commex leadinig to negative feedback in
some cases.
11.2         Negative mentalitv on the part of some of the stakeholders in the Ministry leading
to negative poiiticisation of the programme not uncommon in civil bureaucracy
environments.
11.3         Administrative constraints arising from  the bureaucratic setting in whicih the
programme was implemented.
11.4         Budgetarv constraints havinig to do recurrent cashflow problems encouintered bv
the implementing agencv.
11.5        Inadequate motivation on the part of some of the participants in the programme
leading to programme abandonment.
12.          VISION FOR THE FlJTIJRE
12.1        The Ministry and Departments should be sensitised to fully implement the
privacomex programme as a follow-up to the ground already covered.
12.2         The Ministry and Departments should be sensitised to fully implement the sub-
sector restructuring recommendations generated by privacom and commex.
12.3         The Ministry and Departments should establish the Private Sector Revolving Fund
Programme (reflected in PIP) and similar sub-programmes proposed under
privacomex on a priority basis.
55



'.4 |The  MI inistrv aind  Departments slhould  establisli the comnodiat  exchange
programme proposed under commex on a Drioritv basis.
T.The Mlinisrv  sIould i;npleinenl thie proDosed A;SPAC  iAgriculturai Sector
Pivatisatioln and Co01mmercialization Programme as a separate nrograinrne witih its
own administrative and hudgetary srtrcture -or a prograrnmne riiat seeks to chalige
the civil service mncntal itv into a quasi-private sector mentalita. a strategic square
peg that cannzot fit into a bureaucratic round hiole.
12.6         The Ministry slhould seek tunds from  interested Doniors to hielp implement tlhe
programme.
13.         PROFORNIA PRIVATIZATION  PROGRAMME SCENARIOS
Thle table below gives a set of proforma scenarios which would obtain under different sets ot
assumptions to bring thie privatization and commercializattoni programnme to coinpletioni.
Thlese scenarios are based on the experience of the privacomex programmne botil at hieadquarters
and in the provinces and an assessment of the likelv locus of dvniamics of the programme arising
tlieretrom.
56



FAST TRACK            AVERAGE SPEED. SlOW  SPEED                I
(NO RESOURCE                                (ABOVE
CONSTRAINTS)  (NORNMAL                      AVERAGE
RESOURCE              RESOURCE
CONSTRAINTS)          CONSTRAINTS)
l               ~~~~~(NII;NTNIUNX
BU-REAUCRACY)   (NORMAL                     (ABOVE
BUREAUCRACY)  AVERAGE
BUREAUCRACY)
HIGiH                5 YEARS               10 YEARS              15 YEARS
POTENTIAL
MEDIUM               10 YEARS              15 YEARS              20 YEARS
POTENTIAL
PLOW                 lS YEARS              20 YEARS              25 YEARS
PO TENiTIAI_ 
THE FOLLOWING LEGEND OBTAINS.
MINIUM RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS:
This situation would prevail if the privacomex programme was able to launch its
evangelical programme to bring the message of privacomex to the people at least to
district level from which it can be telescoped to the lower levels. Resources saved are
ploughed back to accelerate the programme.
MINIMUM BUREAUCRACY:
The privacomex programme operates on private sector principles - best scenario for nic
2020 status for kenya
ABOVE AVERAGE CONSTRAINTS
If government and donor funds become less available than they already are at the moment
due to whatever constraints might emerge in the future
57
/



ABOVE AVERA(E BUREALCRACY
If there are Dolic\ re\ersais on hiberalization auCtif.; most Of hlic sector
NORMAL RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS
As at present
NORMIAL BUREAUCRACY
As at present
58



COTrON SUBSECTOR DEVFLOPMENT COMPNNT.
Introduictiot:
Nationai Coton Pro(luction has cont i nued on a declining trend over the last
decaue. To iaia this declinle alid turn tlhe sunsector around tile Government embarked
on undertaking- structural reforms in the cotton industry whiichl could result in
enhanced production,. improved pricing and marketing systems. anid an etticient
regulatorv tramework. Additionall. tile Government is undertakinie activities chat
Would support farmers tecihilogo-icailv. sucil as improving the availability of high
qualitv seed. extenIsioin services anld research.
Within the Second Agricultural Sector Management Proiect iASMP 11)
technical assistance (TA). trainiln and some equipment procurement were financed to:
ai    cstabhish ani appropriate legal and institutional framework for the cotton
indusirv:
h)    facilitate reforms in processinl and rnarketine of cotton in the country:
c)    Improve the technological support t'or cotton tarmers.
The specific scope of the Cotton Subsector Development component are
explored below, includinlg detailed terms of reference (TOR) for the recruited
technical assistance. The long-term consultants were required to transfer skills to
local counterparts. The performance of these consultants was evaluated on the basis
of, among other things, the extent to which a transfer was actually effected. The
consultancv firms SOFRECO of France and ADEC of Kenva were selected to provide
a team of the TA experts to carrv-out the cotton subsector development study and
make recommendations whicil would revive cotton industrv in Kenya.
Legal and Instittitional Framewvork
Technical Assistance in tile form of a lawver was recruited for two manmonths
to review current cotton legislation. and determine changes required to provide the
legal framework for the reformed industry structure. Thie TOR for the lawyer were
as follows:
a)    Review the legal issues, if any, associated with the sale of the Cotton
Board ginneries.
b)    Review in consultation with the Ministry of Cooperative Development.
the necessary changes in the cooperatives and Cotton Acts in line with
the restructuring of the Cotton Board and privatization of the Boards
ginneries.
59
'1



;)     Review (lhe le-ai issues that wouid arise it cotton co-onerative ulnions
,.were to he ainaleamated.
di    P'reoare dratt consutution tor tie restructuredi Cotton loara that wkould
ensure increased private sector participation.
e)     Draft bv-laws tor the proposed ainalgainated cottoii co-operatives
Union.
IIn conjunction withi the Attorney Genieral's office. prepare any
niecessarv draft legislation.
Under the institutionial framework. T:A in the form of a Management
Specialist/Accountanlt was provided for 4 inanmonchs to:
a)     Review progress to date in the liberalization or tihe Cotton industry.
b)     Review options tor further liberaiization of cotton industrv,
C)     Liaise wiih industrv stakeholders and assist in the preparation of the
basis for restructuring the Cotton board of Kienya to become more
responsive to the needs of the Cotton industrv. spellini out clearlv, the
role, structure and functionls of tile restructured Board.
d)     Assist in the recruitment of personnel for staffing the restructured
Cotton Board.
e)     Prepare an organizational structure for the Cotton Board and
appropriate operating procedures.
f)     Assist Cotton Board staff in establislhing organizational procedures and
in making these procedures operational,
g)     Assist Cotton board in determining their office. equipment/vehiicle and
then subsequentiv manage the procurement of the same to be fiinanced
bv the project.
h)     Ensure transfer of skills to colleagues/counterpart personilel.
In addition. TA in the form of an Agricultural Economist was recruited for 6
manmonths particularly to deal with liberalization of the cotton industry as a major
issue as far as the present reforms is concerned. Also for good integration of the
SOFRECO Team in Kenyan context. the overcoming of language difficulties the
Kenyan agricultural Economist, was necessary to act as Assistant Team Leader. The
specific TOR for the Agricultural Economist/Assistant Team Leader were:
a)     Review progress to date in the liberalization of the Cotton Industry,
b)     Review options for further liberalization of the Cotton industry,
c)     Liaise with industry stakeholders and assist in the preparation of the
basis for restructuring the Cotton Board of Kenya to become more
60



-%sponsIle ro tle needs of the ( otton industr.
d1   \ssess me econoinic viabilitv or cilnneries oncrated h! ('ooperative
Ci     ..:evew a,-:Lrnarive oDtions  il iC  WIlii elSure :nat ilc unioni einneries
-5:nain %1mnle cominetirors In ;he liberaihzeci coton incusirv.
Examine ." roie ile private sector couid piay In the cottonl idustrv.
\ssess he 1. iabilitv ot the recoinmenldatioIls Imnade in the studv.
11)    Responsihie tor the timelv preparation of tile study reports.
i)    Provide for all logistical and administrative aspects of the project.
THE COTTON' PROCESSING ANDM NARKETING
One consuitant (ftinancial analvstucooperative specialist) was provided to: (a)
review tile tinancial status of cotton cooperative unions. tb) prepare proposals for the
restructuring of cottoi unions, anid (c) negotiate with uniioIns to achieve agreement on
restructured proposals.
A lint classitication teclinician was recruited for 3.5 manimonths to: (a)
recommend and initiate changes to linit classification facilities includinge tlhe design of
a classing lahoratorv: (h) establishi  rades tor Kienvaln cotton based on UJSDA
standards, (c) train personinel in the use of HVI equipment anid lint operation of the
HVI equipment and lint classitication procedures. (d) oversee lint classification and
the operation of the HVI equipment: and (e) develop a simple svstem tfor classifying
seed cotton at buvilg centres.
A lint marketing specialist was also provided for 3 inanmonitlis to: (a) review
current marketing procedures and provide advice for the marketing of the crop (b)
prepare operational procedures for thle marketing of lint and cotton seed and (c) train
personnel in the use of cotton hedging procedures.
The Technological Support for Cotton Prodtiction
Technical assistance specialists to provide technological support for cotton
production were recruited. namelv:
(a)    A cotton Breeder/Pure Seeds Agronomist for 18 manmonths to establish
high qualitv cotton seeds in the country,
b)     A cotton Research Scientist for 18 months to assist witil the
strengthening of cotton research in the country and.
c)     A Cotton Extension specialist to assist with establishment of an
effective cotton extension service. The respective TOR for the
consultants are as follows:
61
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~| 



Cotton Blreeder; Pure seeds Aarononiist - [OR:
ao     11 I haison % ih tthe %. : istrv or \ \'r::ulture and  ottonl Board. deterine
options tor estahlisi::-, a .iruc.ure :o inanae cotIon1 hreeUatnL. and tlie
production. processi 2 w andti Krihu: on or cotton seed.
b)     Provide recomncndations on researcn requirements and on tile
importation of plantitn  seed tor trial and establishi a trials program  in
coniunicrlon with KA RI.
ci     Assist Cotton Board -.x itii tlie establisihmnenit and operationi of an
appropriate cotton seed enterprise.
d)     Train statf in acid dIenlining and in seed germination anid vXigour testiig
procedures:
et     Establish coctton seed auaiitv conitrol standards.
t)     Provide agronorinc support for seed oroductiomi.
c)     Provide advice on tile coinmercial muitiplicationi and breeding of
planting seed.
h)     Determine a training program  for personnel associated with the pure
seed production aspects of the industry in pure seed production and
distribution in a commercial environment,
i)     Liaise wi[h the MOA, KARI, Cotton Board. cotton Cooperatives,
ginneries and cotton research scientists in designing a structure tor
cotton extension services. and
j)     ensure the transfer of skills to colleagues/counlterpart personiiel.
Cotton Research Scientist - TOR:
a)     Work with the Cotton Board, KARI and farmers to determine cotton
research priorities. Liaise with the Cotton breeder/pure seeds
agronomist.
b)     Prepare a cotton research strategy for the medium and long-term and
discuss this strategy with KARI.
c)     Assist research institutions, particularly KARI, to estabiish sound and
practical research procedures and priorities.
62



d)     ldenniiv any eCulnment anoi manpower needs necessarv tu citect the
recoinieneiied researon nrocram.
ci     \SiSc \SISIl WI dav-ioidav researcH, rrobleins.
Provide advice to ( uonn Boara on funding proposais tor cotton
researchi.
L)     Enisure transter ot skills it) coileagues,:counterparts.
Cotton Exten.sion Specialist -TOR:
a)     Review vile currenlt extcilsionl efforts in cotton.
b)     Liaise with the Mlinistrv ot Agriculture. KARI. Cotton Board. Cotton
Cooperatives. Ginneries and Cotton Breeders in designing a structure
tor cotton extension services.
c)     Advice Cottron 13oard o)n appropriate extensioIn techiliques.
d)     Establisil lines of communication between Cotton Board. KARI. MOA,
Extensionl Officers and farmers.
e)     Establish a trial to determine thie effectiveness of crop spraying utilizing
electrodyn technology and provide farmers demonstrationis using this
technique,
,)     Advise Cotton Board and MOA on an appropriate extension structure
and oversee its establishmenlt.
g)     Prepare and conduct training programmes for extensio  personniel.
h)     Prepare extension literature and aids on cottoil.
i)     Ensure transfer of skills to colleagues/counterpart personnel.
The Second agricultural Sector Management Project (ASMP 11) attached an
Officer-Consultant to the Cotton study to oversee and coordinate tile consultancy
studies and also to take primary responsibility for the quality of the work of the
consultants. The specific TORs for the OC-Cotton Subsector were:
a)     participate in the evaluation of consultants to work in the cotton
subsector component,
63



b)    Oversee and coordinate the conlsultanicv studies in thle cotton subsector
develooment component.
c)    Take primary responsihilitv for the qualitv ot the worik of the
consuiltants.
d)    Liaise with ASMIP It project coordinator in selectine counterpart staff
from the .MIOA. Cotton Board and KARI.
e)    Ensure the effective participarion :of counterpart staff in the activities
of the component.
f)    Liaise with ASMP 11 project coordinator and Cotton Board in deciding
on equipment and vehicles required for the project and effecting their
procurement:
g)    Liaise with MOA. Executive Secretariat and Techinical Unit (ESTU) of
the Parastatal Reform Proeram. Cotton Board and KARI in ensuring
the implementation of the recommendatiolns from the studies under the
componlent.
h)    Liaise with ASMP 11 Project Coordinator. MOA. Cotton Board and
KARI in designing follow-up training programs for staff working in the
cotton subsector.
i)    Participate in the workshops organized under the institutionial
management component, and
j)    anv other activities as may be assigned bv the ASMP 11 Project
Coordinator from time to time.
The activities of the cotton subsector development study started in June 1994
by the above mentioned consultants.
Achievements so Far:
a)    Legal and Institutional Framework
The Cotton Act:
The Cotton Act k2ap 335, No. 3 of 1988 Rev. 1990) has been reviewed and
the Final Report submitted and discussed by the Government of Kenya (GOK) and the
Cotton Subsector Stakeholders.
64



The (JOK otficiais and stakehloIders have generally acccpted some of tile
reports recommenidatiois. particularly thle issues of repealing thle Cotton act.
liquidation of the Cotton Board of Kenva. and establishlimnent of tlhe Cotion Industrv
coordinating apex hodv called Cotton A\ssociatiol of Kenya.
A Cabiinet Mlemorandum on liberalization of cottoni industry and establishiment
of an apex bodv. Cotton Association of Kenva (CAK). tor tile GOK ro effect
recommendations inade from the studv hias been prepared and :submitted to the
Attorney General's chambers. and Mlinistrv of Finance. Discussions are still going on
between Treasurv, AG Chambers and MOA officials regarding the issues of the
repeal of the Cotton Act. liquidation of Cotton Board and initial fuundinig of the
proposed industrv controlled Cotton Associationi of Kenva.
In the meantime. the Techinical Review Committee with membershiip from
KARI. Cotton Board. ASMP 11 and MOA is implementing the recommendations from
the studv and also carrving out tile activities of the CAK wlhich is likelv to take a long
time before it is established. These activities include coordinationi of cotton research.
seed multiplication and distribution to farmers. data collectioni and moniitoring of
cotton production among otiers.
The Cottoni Cooperatives Unions:
The Final report on Cotton Cooperatives was prepared and submitted for
discussions. The report recommended that the control and management of cotton
cooperatives should be handed over from the Ministry of Cooperative Development
(MOCD) to the movement. The present legal and institutional structure within which
cooperatives operate has thus been clhanged and incorporated in the new Cooperative
Societies Act.
The recommendations made from the studv will be forwarded to all cotton
cooperative unions.
b)    The Cotton Processing and Nlarketing
The Final Report on Cotton Grading, Classification and Marketing was
submitted and discussed by GOK and stakeholders. The report recommended that a
.,.seed cotton grading system in Kenya be introduced and implemented as an on-going
process. But the initial goal of growers and ginners should be to establish and agree
upon a simple grading system based on segregating selling and purchasing seedcotton
..:  against three Kenvan seed cotton grade standard plus a reject grade to control
contamination. The grades to be introduced will be GRADE 1, GRADE 11, GRADE
III and REJECT GRADE.
65



Presentiv. single proaucer Dr:ces are set ror twko orades AR and BR of seed
cotton. Tllese grades reter not to te type or quality or cotton delivered hut simpiv to
whether rhe coton is clean and t'ree trom  oreign matter XAR) or is G:irtv. discoloured
or coniains . reigin inater 13R). 13R resuits f'rom staining ot Iihe  oktton hv misects or
weeds. late niarvesting, w%iicic leads to soil coltaminaionll  nin  ohlier uainapes rcsuiting
rrom inacecuate or prolonged storage.
Tlle seedcotton gradinig shouid fundamentailv be done to improve tiie products
quality and its presentatioi In tilhe market place in order to enihanlce its desirabilitv to
the buvers. The proposed gradinge system  is simple and need the fullest cooperation
of growers.  inners and seedcotnon buyers for its adoption. The grades will be
introduced during tihe marketinc of .seedcotton between June anid August 1998.
Lint classification is presently done by spinners who are more competenit in
fibre testing than their counterparts in the ginningy sector. Some spiinners test samples
from every bale as a check acainst what thiev have purchlased and as a qualitv control
measure to decide the composition of blends ot lint bales to be processed.
Unider the operating tree-mnarket economv. it is no lonlgyer necessarv to design
marketing, operational procedures. specific to the farmers. oinners. spinners or anv
central marketing organisations. Eacil ginner and trader will adopt their own
operating procedures. But it is vital that tihe operating system ot pricing and
marketing should:
i)    result in cotton farmers receiving with certainty a guaranteed minimum price
announced in advance of the crop vear wilich is paid withiin a specific number
of days from the date of deliverv of seed cotton: the tine period between
delivery and payment should be as short as possible.
ii)    be compatible with a system of input supply which encourages tihe increased
use of inputs in cotton growinz and whicih ensures orderiv and timelv payment
for inputs used bv farmers.
iii)   be compatible witil a mixed system of cooperatives. and privatelv owned
ginneries.
iv)    result in producer prices for seed cotton and ex-ginnerv prices for lint. which
fully retlect qualitt. and
v)     allow the competitive purchase of lint for export when there is surplus
domestic production.
c)     Technological support for Cotton Production:
1.    Cotton Breeding and Seed Production:
ASMP 11 in conjunction with the MOA and KARI have started a cotton seed
multiplication programme by planting one ton of KSA81M (a new high yielding
66
l



.ariety c:e!oned h!%y Ki .I at \.Nonal Irrieation 3Boaro iN[M  P'lrkerra Irriiation
Scheme. FT,e crop wkas harvested in December ILK)' anu about not tons of Relistered
seed %kas nroouced fromn me se~-dicoroil harvested. All the %: sterco seed (00Orons)
producec .maS niantea under n e supervision 01 \S%IP ll. NMOA\ :an.O KAR  in about
*.000 heczares hia) on *armners :arins in Nvania Province anid wlusmi District between
March aaa MNav 19%)6.
rThe seeccotton wias liar%ested from aucust 1996 and veilned cenitraliv at Ndere
ininerv n Siava District.  \bout 100 toins .or re. stered KSA SIM N seed was produced
and distrinutea o Cotton tarmers tor further hulking during 1997 crop season. It is
expected That enouLIhl certified seed will he available t'or farmers inz ail cotton growing
areas in Western ! Kenya during the 1999 Cotton Crop Season.
As a result ot the supply of good qualitv seed for the last two crop seasons.
average yield per unlit area has gone up tfrom 300 kg per hia of seedcottoin to over 700
kg per ha. Thle farmers incoine from cottoin is also expected to * o up substantially.
The second wave of KSA SI M seed production hias started thils season and it is
expected that cer7ified seeds w%ill he available e%erv vear starting froin 1999.
Seed inuitiplication of H4A\RT 89N1 variety suitable tor Eastern and Central
Kenva is going on simultaneousiv. About 30 ton1s of registered seed was produced in
1996 and was planted under irri-atioln at NIB Perkerra and Mlwea-Tebere Irrigation
Scheme for further production ot registered seed in 1997. Certified HART89M  seed
will be avaiiable to farmers in Eastern. Central and Coast Provinces in 1999 crop
season on the completion of first-wave seed production. Thereafter certified seed will
be produced every year for plantinig.
It is proposed that seed production activities be handed over to the private
sector coordinated bv the proposed Cotton Association of Kenya. Before handing
over training in seed technoloov and research  should he provided bv tile MOA and
KARI.
2.     Cotton Research:
The Final Report on Cotton research was prepared and submitted to the MOA
and KARI for discussion and implementation of thle recommendations thereini. The
report mainly assessed the needs and determined cotton research priorities and also
established cotton research strategies in Kenya. An interim cotton research
programme for implementation was developed for thle crop season 1994/95 at Kibos
and Mwea -Tebere National fibre Research Centres (NFRCs) but was not put in place
due to lack of operational funds.
67



An ennanced National Cottoni Research oroorainilie \0lich makes in
consideration ail urceeit needs or zhe (Cotton Industry inciudnii iiproved %arieties.
Integrated Pest Nianateinent IPMN) aiining n reducing pest conrroi cosrs. zind new
farming systems was formuiated and submited 'or inmlementation. Phis programine
has been (iiscussed herwveen ASNIP 11. nOA. KA\RI :anu IDA ano %kas to he
Operationaiizeu during 1)97 croo seasoni. 'A hen IDA hiad given no obiection to utilise
about Kshs. I .() million Nationai Extension Proiect (NEP 11) t'unas hut it was not
possible to carry out the programme. Funlds were not released to r operarionaiization
of the research and seed inultiplicationi.
Cotton Extension:
The Final Report on cotton extension services w%as subinitted to tile Ministrv ot
Aericulture. The report made a number ot recommendationls that are intenided to
revitalize the extension services tor cotton production. These recominelidatiolns have
been adopted bv the MOA because thev emrhliasize more training oin cotton
technologv, stronger linikages with research. intensive field demonstrations. field trials
and svstematic visits to the farmers.
The improved extensioni approacil was applied durinlg the 1996 and 1997 crop
seasons and an increase in the yieild from the previous national average ot 300 kg per
ha to between 500 kg and 700 kg per liectare hias been achiieved. The target is to
reach an average vield of 900 kg/ha.
In order to build cotton specialist capability at the district level to improve
cotton production, the Ministrv on ASMP 11 recommendation has appointed/assigned a
specific subject matter specialists (SMS) in each cotton growing district. with a
responsibilitv for cotton extension. Specificallv, the District Cotton Development
Officer will link-up on regular basis with appropriate research centers on cotton.
identifv needs for and providing training to tle frontline extension staff anid providing
monthiv progress reports to the Cotton Association of Kenva oni various aspects
affecting cotton production.
What remains to be done in this area is the training of all District cotton
production officers and field staff in cotton growing areas on the updated cotton
production technologies. The training programme has been developed and will be
effected during 1998/99 Financial Year starting July 1998. Cotton Scientists from
KARI will participate in the extension training activities and more interactions
between extension and research will be encouraged in the areas of field trials. field
days demonstrations and diagnosis of the field problems in growing cotton. The
training is expected to run alongside cotton growing seasons in Eastern and Western
Kenya.
68



What remains to he Done:
Basicallv what remains to he lonie is stated bv the follo  ing 'Terms of
Reference for the Officer (onsuitanlt in chlaree of COtolnl S.uhsector Component:
a)    l iaise vith the SIOALD&M, Executive secretariat anid techilical Ullit
(ESTIJ). cotton Board and KARI in ensuring thie implementation of the
recommendations from ihe sEudies under the coinponenit.
b)    Liaise witlh the ASMP 11 project coordinator. tile N10ALD&M. Cotton
Board and KARI in designing follow-up training proerammes for staff
workini in the Cotton subseccor. and
c)    Liaise with ASMP 11 Project Coordinator and CottoIn Board/Cotton
association of Kenva in deciding on equipmenit and vehicies required
for the project and in effectinig thieir procureimen.
According to the above project TORs. thie various recommendations agreed
upon with GOK have to be implemented in order for the project to achieve its
objectives under the Cotton Subsector Development component. and also to leave an
operational and sustainable cotton development programmes.
Specifically, the following recommendationis need to be operaEionalized as
continuous process of ASMP II and GOK.
i)    Operationalize Extension service programme to Cotton Farmers:
An improved cotton extension approach within NEP It was formulated and
applied successfully in the production of KSA81M Registered seeds at
Perkerra Irrigation Scheme and in Nyanza and Western Provinces. ASMP 11,
KARI and MOALD&m will continue to provide the extension services in
liaison with the field extension staff for tihe production of registered and
certified seeds and seed cotton covering about 18.000 hectares in Western
Kenya during this 1998 cropping season starting from April to August 1998.
In Central and Eastern Kenva, the cropping season will start in October 1998
to August 1999 and similar extension services will be provided throughout the
cropping season as necessary.
The main extension activities will include training of the field staff on cotton
cultivation technology, stronger linkages with research institutions, intensive
field demonstrations and trials and systematic follow-up visits to farmers.
ii)    Cotton Research:
About Kshs. 7.0 million is needed to start the cotton research activities at
Kibos. Mwea-Tebere and Msahaba Fibre Research Centres during the period
69



April 1998 to .A\uoust I 'QQ coering t%k o cropping coottoI sasosls  experienlced
in Kenva. The researcn prograinine xv ii also he compleinltarv to the
extension anou seed Inuillplicatlon proera:nines. Tie proposed research projects
%kil iniciude:
a)    Evaluatioin ot second cvcle seiected Iijies troin t(KA\ 592(4)
b)    Preliminarv evaluation ot Kibos linies
c)    Oin farm advanced variety trials
d)    Evaluation of Kibos Cotton linies
e)    Germplasm maintenance
t)    Plant populationi fertilizer triais on cotton
g)    Evaluation of niew pesticides for control of cotton pests. rationalised use
of pesticides for etfective pest managemenit in cotton1 production and
IPM.
hI)    Evaluation of skip row spraving method on cotton, anid
i)    Response of cotton to crop rotation and allev cropping in East and
Central Kenva.
Most ot these research activities need at least three growing seasons in order
to have meaningful and realistic results from the analvsis of rhe data collected.
The duraton for operationalizatioln of the cotton research is expected to run
between April 1998 and December 2000.
iii)    Establish a seed Production Scheme:
The "Wave-system" of cotton seed production has been recommenided and
adopted. The process of breeding (production of Nucleus. Breeder and
foundatioa seeds), seed multiplication, processing and distribution of certified
seed to farmer have been started and are currentlv at various stages of
production. The Cotton Breeder/Pure seeds agronomist- Dr. Pathak prepared
a docurnent which determined a structure to manage cottoin breeding, seed
production under wave svstem. processing and distribution of certified seed.
This document would act as guidelines for the establishment of seed production
enterprise from June 1998. Donor/GOK funding will be sought to implement
the seedc multiplication process.
The muttiplication scheine for Western Kenya will continue this season. The
100 tons of Registered seed of KSA81M was multiplied in 1997 in over 5,000
hectares'im Nyanza and Western provinces. The crop has been harvested and
some seedcotton ginned at Ndere Ginnery in Siaya District. About 100 tons of
dressed registered seed available at Ndere ginnery will be released to the MOA
for distribution to farmers for further multiplication in Nyaza Province. It is
anticipaed that adequate certified seed to cover approximately 75,000 hectares
of land in Western Kenva in 1999 planting season.
70



.\t planziln. .'eedilng. t.r:lihzer application1. c,op nrotecuton. picking :and
-rading tecihinicas advice .xdil he provided by tie e\tCensiol and KARI statt.
Tiie seeo inhimip;ication  t.c:me or Eastern ano Cc:itral Kenva was started
durino tlie cron season    ()Q5 and ahoti 2() tons or reoistered seed of the new
cottoIn \arietv'         %k.\RTS'()NI was producea. To conitinue with seed production
process. seconid w%ave ot dhe reaisterca seed of HiARTS9M w,,as produced at
Perkerra and Mwea rehere Irrigation scihemne during April 1997. The rest ot
seed multiplicationi will he donie unider rain-fed conditionis in Kitui and Taita-
Taveta Districts w%hen the crop season starts in October 1998. The staff from
NFRC NMwea-rehere and NSQCS Lanet will be inspectinig thle crop at critical
stages of growthi to inoitor weedinL,. fertilization. insecticides-spravs, picking.
ginnine, seed dressing and lahelling. It is expected thlat adequate certified seed
will be available tor cotton farmers in Cenitral. Eastern and Coast Provinces in
October 1999 planingc, season.
IVi    Estahlish seedcotton and lint gradine system:
MiOA will initiate the introduction of tile recommenided First. Seconld. Third
and Reject Grades ot seedcottoln and Lint Classifving systeins tilrougih
workshiops and( traininig of the relevant stakeholders particuiarlv members of
Cotton cooperative (Jnionis. ginners. spinners. CAK and  IOALDM  officials.
Training on tlhe new grades will be undertaken during picklina (harvesting),
seedcotton marketing and ginning periods which runs between June and
September in Eastern Kenya, and august to November in Western Kenya.
During these same periods, tIfe Cottoil seed qualitv control standards
developed by Cotton Breeder/Agronomist - Dr. Pathak will be operationalized
simultaneousiv throughi training of relevant KARI staff.
v)    Operationalize Lint Miarketing Procedutres:
MOA will operationlize tile recommended Cotton Marketing procedures and
organise training of cooperative and CAK staff on thie aspects of seed
marketing. The Personilel will also be trained in the use of cotton hedging
procedures.
vi)    Review and amend Cotton legislation:
MOA will coordinate the repeal of the Cotton Act (335) and the establishment
of a cotton industry coordinating body called Cotton Association of Kenya
through MOALD&m. AG Chambers and Parliament.
71



3.  SUGAR SUBSECTOR DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT:
Introduction
The main goai was to set Up a inarket responsive, private sector oricuited sugar industrv
in the Countrv.
The objectives of the Sugar Subsector Restructuring Componeint %%ere:
-     To initiate institutional and policv reforms aimed at stimulating tile development
of the sector:
To provide optioins to maximize economic and technical etficienicv in the sector:
To provide optionls for meeting tile distribution objective of the Government
where consumers and canie growers are concerned in a transparent and effective
manner
In order to achiieve the above set objectives. cite component was charged withi five key
responsibilitiesi activities namelv-:
i.    Undertake the Sugar Siubsecror Restrucrturing Studv (SSRS);
ii.    Fornmulate privauization an7d restrzucrtrinig plans for the slugar companies:
iii.   Strengthen the regulatorv frantevork for tlie sugar industrv, redefine tile role and
develop the Kenya Sugar A fthorirv rKSA) capacirv to filfill its rote and finctions
to allow it to serve as a link benveen rthe private sector and tlhe Government:
iv.    Procure vehicles & office equipment! computers. pav operatitig and office (
Kisumu Offce) erpenses, short- Temt Techtnical Assistance (20 Man Months) for
KSA,
v.    Implement the privatization programme.
i.    The Sugar Subsector Restructuring Study (SSRS)
The study was to focus on the following main areas:-
*     Determining an appropriate institutional and regulatory structure for efficient
development of the sub-sector based on the principles of price and market
liberalization and full participation of the private sector and the commensurate
72



removal of Government (includiin parastatal) involvement.
0     Formulatilng measures to divest puNic majority ownership or sugar compamies.
and promote privatization.  Fliese  .oulid include:-
(a)    determination ot the current %%orth of the companiies. tlhroughi an asset
revaluation exercise:
b)    workling out options for fii,ancial restructuring of the companies based on
a projection ot the financial prospects of the sector:
(c)    determination of efficiencv norms for the industrv: and
(d)    determinationl of private ownership  options. including  thie level of
shareholdinie bv cane growers.
-      Determinitme  svstems  tor providing  suear cane growers  with  appropriate
technological support i.e. in research on sugarcane. extension etc.
*     restructuring and strengthenitilg of the KSA as the primarv technical and policv
advisory body dealing with the sugar sub-sector with appropriate association ot.
and contral by, the private sector.
*     determiniwg options for efficient utilization of by-products from the sugar mills
in an environmentally sustainable fashion.
The study was inatwo parts. namely study I and Study I.
Study 1:
This study covered issues on privatization, asset valuation and finanicial restructuring and
the major activities were:-
Asset valuation and preparation of guidelines and methodology be used for
revaluatiom and reporting on all the assets.
Prepare financial restructuring plans in the light of financial prospects for all the
4 factoriesa
Formulate privatization/divestiture action plan and detailed procedures for
implementation for all the 4 factories.
Set guidelives for execution/implementation phase.
73
t



The studv was conducted over a period of 35 mnilmolinlis bv a techinical assistance team
comprisine or: a Team  Leader. a Civil Enaineer. A\r;culiural Enginieers. Sugar
Engineer:Technologist. Accounts Experts aild l1c-al Expert.
Studv II:
This studv covered issues on sugar researcih. imarket liberalization. regulation ot imports
and restructuring of KSA. Tihe major activities were:-
-     Restructuring/strengthening the roles of KSA:
-     Formulate the basis for providing technological support to care growers:
-     Design a mechanism for tile Government to periodicallv review the status
of the industrv:
-     Review sugarcane Research and recommend future activitv.
The study took 20 manmonths and was conducted by a tecihnical assistance team
comprising of: a Team Leader, a Sugar Agronomist. Sugar Tecnilologist. Sugar
Marketing Specialist. Financial Specialist and Technical Writers.
2.    Recommendations and Privatization programme arising from the Study and
as agreed by GOK.
A.   Sugar Conpanies.
3 Chermell Sugar Company Ltd
lmmediate preparations were to be made to offer majoritv of GOK shares for
sale through the public tloatation at the Nairobi Stock Exchange. with cane
farmers and employees getting 20% and 5% of the shares respectively.
* Soutb Nyanza Sugar Company Ltd (SONY)
The Company was to be placed under Performance Based Management Contract
for a period of three years so as to clean the balance prior to the GOK floating
some of is               shares to the public. Farmers and employees were
to get 25S% of the shares tloated.
* Muhweni Sugar Company Ltd
A technical consulting and Performance Based Management Contract was
recommended combined with a three year rehabilitation programme with the aim
74



ot imnimizing :osses. Public tloatation xx as t) :ilow %t wicu farmcrs and emiiployees
-ettinI2 257 or the shares ktfered.
Nzoia Siuar Company Ltd
'rhe (oinpanvy xas to ne olaced ullder a le.-ormancc l3aseu Nianagenelm t Coontract
with a siort- term objective or bringing productonll L to)  Phase I desiszn capacity
and stabilizing operatinis. A contract %\as to be sought to complete Phase II
expansion programme. Public nlotationi wkas co toilo%w and farmers and employees
were to aet 21 .T of the shares offered
B.   Khen!a Sii-a Authority (KSA)
KSA wkas to he strengtihenied and restructured to become tile industrv's Apex
Bodv. It will be controlled. tulided ana managea by the Industrv wiii mininal
CGovernmenlt representation. lI was noted thiat Go%ernrnent will require guidelines
to monitor sector hiealthi. determinle reasonableness of prices' and availability of
sugar and take corrective steps to meet distortions In marked beehavior. These
ouidelines will he developed bv both GiOK and the industrv's Apex Body.
The Apex Body will be run bv a Board of Directors whio will be elected bv
growers and millers. The membership will be limited to 13 inclusive of ex-
officials (MOALD&M. Treasury and A.G. Cliambers) for a three year term of
office. The role and functions of the organization will be expanded to meet the
needs of the privatized industry and will include Research. Extension and
Training functionis among others.
The current KSA will have its legal sectioni strengthened bv appointinig a legal
officer to be company secretary. Also Loans/Credit department wili be created
in due course.
C      Sugar Research.
Kenya Research Foundation (KSF) was to be formed to be directly under the
Apex Body and in the long run a training Institute may be established.
Preparation to create KRF has already been initiated by drafting the memorandum
and articles of Association and a cabinet paper on this topic will be prepared in
due course.
D     Outgrower Companies
Existing Outgrower companies were to be strengthened and new ones formed
were they do not exist.
75



E     Agricultural Extension
It was recommended that the maiii et,rort mor imoroVune cane exensioln shiould be
cnrougn factorv. ourtrower companv ana researcil agrIcultural scarf. The linkage
hetween ap-ricultural extenisioni and trainiun was to ne tihroLcnil KSF.
F     Jaggeries Factories
It was recommended that 'aggeries be broupht wthin ilie ilndustrv with
representation in the apex bodv.
3. IMPLEMENTATION
A.    The Sugar Subsector Restructuring StudY (SSRS).
The Studv was undertaken by F.C.Schaffer &d Associates inc. with Assistance or
an Inter-ministerial technical team popuiarlv known as rihe Tecniical Review
Committee (TRC).The members of TRC were as drawn trom  the follows
I nstitutions-:
ASPM  II                              -     MOALD&M
State Corporations Division           -     MOALD&NM
Department of Agriculture             -     MOALD&M
Planning Division                     -     MOALD&M
DGIPE                                 -     Treasury
ESTU                                   -     Treasury
Kenya Sugar Authority
KARI                                  -     MRTT
The Committeepivvided liaison between the Technical Assistance (TA) Consultants and
the Kenya Govemment Policy makers through their Officer representatives and in
availing the required information/data. The team worked verv closelv with the TA
Consultants so as to ensure that the recommendations made were implementable and in
line with the Government Policy, and where necessary accompanied the team to the field
during the data collection /asset valuation period.
The Committee was responsible to Agricultural Sector Committee (ASC) and ASMP 11
Management Imnplementation Committee (MIC) through ASMP 11 Coordinator.
,.: The TRC's Terms Of Reference (TOR) were as follows-:
1.    Supervise and ensure high quality work from  the Technical Assistance
Consultants.
76



'.     Prepare tor and particloate In the Study w hen necessary or wlhell required.
includinig the Teamn's ineermes.
3.     Guide  tile 'Techlinical .\ssistance  Co)insuitants on the policy  and  technical
rnattcrs% issues as it concerns thle resnecti%e Institution.'    Ministry.
4.     Read. commenit and assess all tile reports fronm tile Conisultanits i.e Inceptioll. Mid-
term. Draft f'inal and fiinal reports.
5.     Review  and discuss with the Consultants the findinies and
recommendations to be included in the ftinal report.
6.     Make recommendations for tile acceptance of each report.
7.     Participate in the Sugar Subsector Stakeholders' workshops.
8.     Prepare to brief your respective Institution/ superior on thie progress of the Study
and also prepare/report feedback to the TRC and the Tecihinical Assistance Team
for inclusion in the reports.
9.     Participate  in the   preparation  of the  implementation plan of the
recommendations arising from the Study.
10.    Prepare strategy for privatization and determine the modalities of sale of the sugar
Companies.
11.   Assist in designing the training programmes for tile staff working in the Sugar
Subsector.
Out-put / achievements of the Studv (SSRS)
The Study and its reports is currently thie most important reference point in the industry.
It achieved and recommended the following:
i.     Determination of an appropriate institutionial and regulatory structure for the
efficient development.
Under this item, the Government Priorities in the sugar industry was identified
as to:
*  facilitate institutional and policy reforms through effecting     necessary
changes to legislation.
*  manage the privatization process, especially in removing and    resolving
impediments to sale of parastatal sugar companies in a transparent and effective
77



manner.
* nornote imeasures kkoiv to icid ad) 'to  iler -roduciivriv \in  particular
latenion to [Inle long term- nroblem of rawisin  agricultural nroouc1t1vtV.
i Ormiuiaton ot tneasures -j divest pubiihc iaoritv ovwership of the 4 sugar
companlies ( Cheinehii. Soniv. Muhoroni aild Nzoia) to proinote privatizatioii:
ii.    Determinationi of systems tor providinl suoarcane witil appropriate techilological
support:
iv.    Formulation of privatization / restructuring pians for Keniya Sugar Authoritv
KSA) as a primarv techinical and advisorv body. co enable it fulfil its functions
as an Apex Bodv for the Industry.
v.    Proposals for strengthening the regulatorv framework for tihe sugar industrv.
' A sugar ACT is to he enacted
' A sug,ar industry policy is to be forinulated anid issued.
vi.    Deermination of options for efficient utilization of the bv-products from the sugar
mills in an environmentallv sustainable fashion.
Bottleneck faced in implementinig the SSRS
The Study took longer than envisaged in that it was started in October 1994 and
completed in May 1995 but the final report submitted and accepted bv the Government
in Februarv 1996. The delay was mainiv due to Consultants submitting unacceptable
reports necssitating several revisions and non-timelv pavment of the Consultants dues.
B.    Implementation of the privatization programme for the four sugar Companies
Chemelil. Sonv. Nuhoroni & Nzoia and KSA.
i)   Caenelil sugar CompanY Ltd:
The recommendation was that GOK majority shareholding in this company be
offered for sale to public but 20% of the shares will be reserved for company
cane growers and employees.
This process is already started with the necessary advisors appointed. i.e the
advsing Merchant Bank, advising legal firm, Auditors and valuers. It is expected
that this process will be accomplished by October 1998
78



:i.  .Soutih Nvanza Sus,,ar Companv (SONY) Ltd:
The recommendation was lo nlace the Comrnanv under P\3IBC i%hde sourcingt for
a technical partner. I'iis corpanv has alreadv been put under l'erformance Based
Mlanapement ('ontract with Booker Tate for 3 y-ears efrectuve I st Januarv. 1996.
An interested  Equitv  Iivestor will he sought to unidertake the proposed
rehabilitation and expansion programme. ;After all tlhe prvatization impediments
have been resolved  hllen (JOK slhares will he offered for sale with 20% reserved
for cane growers and employees. Privatization process Is vet to start.
iii.  .Mluhornni .Sugar Company Ltd.
The Companv will he put under lPerformnanice Based %lanagement Contract
(PBMC) for 3 years tor proper inanagement. rehabilitationi. commercialization
and removal of all privatization impediments. After thlis. GOK shares will be
offered for sale with cane growers and emplovees getting 2n  .
The process of recruiting Technical managemenit firm  xxas started in Janiuarv
1997 and is expected to complete in June 1998.
iv.    Nzoia Sutgar CompanY Ltd.
This company will be placed under PBMC for three years with the short-term
objective of increasinig cane supply and bringing production to phase I design
capacity and stabilizing operations.  At the same time an interested Equity
Investor will be invited to rehabilitate and complete phase 11. After this GOK
shares will be offered for sale with cane growers and emplovees getting 20%.
This process like for Nzoia is on going and is expected to end in June 1998.
v.    Restructuring of the Kenya Sugar Authoritv ( KSA)
The process of restructuring KSA is vet to start. The Cabinet directive is being
awaited. It should be noted that a draft Sugar Bill and Policv Paper have been
prepared and submitted to the Ministry for further action.
vi.    Creation of the KSF.
The Cabinet okayed the creation of a Kenya Research Foundation and action is
being taken.
U. 
vii.   Strengthening of the Outgrower Companies
This has just started with the South Nyanza Outgrowers Co.(SOC) whereby SIDA
through ASIP is to fund a study to come up with recommendation for
79



implemeniation. The process of recruiting a consuitancy tirm is at an advanced
stage i.e. Teclniical proposals have been evaiuated and the results are to be
communicated to tile donor. It is lione that thiis studv will he finalized soon.
Bottlenecks faced in implementing the above programme:
The main ones have been:
*     Delays in obtainiiii Cabinet directives: and
*     Frequent policv changes.
NOTE:       NMsmias Sugar Companv was intt covered by SSRS luut ASMP It is
inivolved in its privatization process.
Privatization of ,Ilumias Sugar CompanY Ltd (.MISC) and the Development of Busia
Sugar Company Ltd. (BSC)
Originallv che prnvatizationi of Mumias Sugar Companv was being undertaken in two
phases namely a nght's issue and then sale or shares through the Nairobi Stock Exchange
(NSE).
The first phase was to be achieved through a sale of shares to existing investors,
company employees and cane farmers. The Privatization proceeds would then be
invested by MSC in the establishment and developmenit of the proposed Busia Sugar
Company.
The above process has now been changed bv the Government with directives that the
GOK sh7ares in Maumias be floated in the Nairobi Stock Exchange and the proceeds be
used to develop-the Busia Sugar Company. This has now reverted to the first option
of a Rights Issue-and completion is expected bv December 1998.
4.          Outstanding Issues and what remains to be done:
1.    Finalization and issuance of the Sugar Policy. The policy paper has been
prepared.
2.    Completon of the privatization of the Sugar Companies namely, Mumias,
Chemelit, Sony, Muhoroni and Nzoia.
3.    Re-evaluation and implementation of the existing Action Plan for the
Restructuring of KSA.
so



4.    (perationalizini ot the Kenya' Sugar Researcil Foundationi:
CON'CLUSION:
1.    The SSRS was successtuliv carried out anid withiin time. However, implementation
of the  recommendations  arisina  tlerefrom  lhave  nlot been  successfuliv
implemented.
2.    The restructuring of KSA  canl be described as a noni-starter. Although the
recommendations for restructuring of KSA were accepted in principle.
implementation has never taken place since this hias been tied to tile issuance of
the "Sugar Bill' and finalization or the "Sugar Policv Paper" w,hicih as mentioned
above are still outstanding issues. Neverthieless, tie KSA maniagement has, out
of its own initiative. retrenched some staff and has also bought some computers
to strengthen its MIS with funds provided outside ASMP 11.
C. 
,.^. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ S



4. OILSEEDS SUB-SECTOR DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Introduiction:
Thle Oilseeds suib-sector Development Component or \SM1P 11 seeks to develop the
oilseeds sub-sector wihichi is still in its intancv. The ohiectives of the co mTonent are:
To establish a legal. institutionial and policy tramework  k)r tile sustainable
development of the subsector.
To formulate appropriate research  programmes and extension to provide
technological support to oiiseed farmers.
To support the oilseeds indusrrv to increase its efficiencv throughi modernizatioll
and provision of improved technologyv finance and supportive tiscal and othier
public policies.
To establisi an Oilseeds Development Council iODC) to coordiniate the
implementiation of tile oilseeds subsector developmenit obiectives.
To improve skills, through training. among kev personiel involved in oilseed
research, extension and processing.
In order to achiew the above objectives. Technical Assistance was obtained in the areas
of Farm Support Services (6m/m) Pricing and Marketing ( 6 m/m) Oilseeds Processing (6 m/m)
and Oilseeds Development Policv (12 rn/mi)
The oilseeds component was expected to achieve the following during the life of the
project.
Year I
-     complete studv on the economics of the oilseeds sub-sector:
-   - complete drafting of legislation for the oilseeds sub-sector:
-     prepare a training program for researchers to provide farm support services to oil
seeds growers:
complete survey on oilseeds processing establishments in Kenya:
commence-overseas and local training programs.
82



N'ear 2
-     establish the (ODC
-     continue   ithl training programs
N'ear 3
-     complete training program
WCHIEVENIENTS OF TIIE COMIPONENT:
While ASMP 11 became effective in September 1993. tile officer consultanit for the sub-
sector came on board in Februarv 1994. The medium and shiort term consultanlts came on board
during the second vear of the project, the earliest (medium term) reporting in September 1994
and the latest (short term) in Februarv 1995. The otiler two short term consultanits reported in
hetween.
Due to delavs in starting work bv technical assistance and consequentiv the delays in
submission of their tinal reports vwe experienced delavs in the completion of activities as
ndicated under I above. The following activities have been completed.
ittudies
Studies in the four areas of Farm Support Services, Pricing and Marketing, Oilseeds
'rocessing  and  Qilseeds  Development Policy  have  been  completed.   Very  useful
-commendations have been made which should bring a turn around of the sub-sector once
nplemented. The: studies have been presented to key stakeholders in a workshop. The
akeholders supported the recommendations made by the consultants.
The major recommendations arising from the work of the TA team include the following:
.rm Support Services:
Promote oilscrops for cultivation is ASAL, using drought resistant crops (sunflower,
lower, castor, sesame and soybean) and dryland farming technologies. In high and medium
ential areas production of oilcrops should take advantage of under utilized resources within
existing farming systems without displacing staple food crops. Use of oil crops as catch
)s, rotation crops, relay crops and in crop mixtures should be encouraged in high and
'ium potential areas:
An initial five year research plan has been proposed: A five year development plan has
proposed which should reach about I million tonnes of oilseeds annually by the 5th year
iplementation. There is also a 2 year Pre-project phase during which fiscal policies will be
83
.-



put in place. ODC formed. Promotionai seeds produced and distributed ano general awareness
and iinfrastructure created.
Researcih should he re-focused co place emnphiasis on probleins of oiiseed production in
ASAL  inciuding  identirication  ot' drouiit resistanit  :op  %arieties .und  developinenit ot
technologies of ollcrop productioni In drylands sucin as water conservation and utilization ot
-round water for supplemental irrigation. For high and medium potential areas. research should
emphasize development of crops and cropping systems w- ihich will enhanlce production of oilcrops
without adverse effects on production or establishied food crops.  These include use of
appropriate oilseed cropsicrop varieties in rotation. intercrop. catch crop or even. trap crop
svstems.
Conclusivelv establish viabilitv of oil palm cultivation thirough identification of suitable
agro-ecological zones. and soils. appropriate varieties and fitting agro-econioinic packages. Well
managed oil palm nurseries should be initiated in the identified areas.
Immediatelv embark on coconut rehabilitation program emphasizing documelitation and
control of coconut pests and disease. establishment of appropriate agronomic management
practices and replacement of old unproductive palms with new improved %arieties.
Both local and international training shouid be conducted.  A  total of 10 KARI
researchers and 10 other oilseed scientists from public. private and cooperative sectors involved
in aspects of oilseed development othier than research should be trained in institutions in India
over a period of 3 years. The training should be offered under the umbrella of Indian council
for Agricultural Research (ICAR) and should take the form of scientific aEtacihment. After the
first three years, ODC should continue to sponsor 2 - 3 oilseed scientists for short term courses
abroad annually for another five years.
A total of 60 KARI scientists and 30 extension personnel from public. private and
cooperative sectors should be trained localiv.
A Management Information Svstem should be set up within ODC to collate. analyze and
disseminate information on Farm  Support Services to provide management and growers
information on production, productivity, inputs (nature, availability, access and use). weather
and field management. This sliould form part of the functions of the Specialists in Oilseeds
Production, Sectoral Economics, Planning and Monitoring, and Marketing.
Oilseeds Development Policy:
,.-: Establish the ODC under the section 191 of the Agricultural Act (Cap 318), after
declaring oilseeds as Special Crops under section 190 of the said Act. An organizational
structure for ODC has been proposed.
Establish an Oilseeds Development Fund under a subsidiary legislation establishing ODC.
84



The ftutid to consist of levies on local pro(dctioni ot oiiseeds. ;.at can he chareed at processing
unit. Levies on1 imported oilseeds. oils and olilneais should Co r- th1is runlid with the approval ot
Finance Mlinister.
Stove rapidlv towards selt surYiciencv. Kenva hias tile notential to grow all tile oilseeds
it needs without adverselv afrectinc the current tarming svsrems ancd tiherefore need to move
rapidly towards seif sut't'iciency in oilseeds. edible oils and oilineals.
The edible oil industrv in Kenva hlas verv little to do witil wihat can be produced in Kenya
(liquid oils) and what is imported and processed in Kenya (solid fats). There is need to develop
backward linlkages. ulilv inltepratinlg oilseed productioni witil processinig anid marketinge.
An integrated policv framework for thie development of tile oilseeds sub-sector is urgentiv
needed.  The objective should he to revive rural markets for oilseeds. protect the Kenyva
Farmers against dumping bv moving towards imports of oilseeds rather thall edible oils:
Increased empihasis shiould he placed on cultivation of oilseeds in ASAL areas and as additional
2rops in the high/medium potential areas. A policv statement hlas been submitted and a public
declaration of the policyv tramework is urgentlv needed.
A Training program on oilseeds development policy should be mounted over the next
three vears to train about 90 professionals from Government, Industrv and other Organizations
involved in oilseeds production, processing and marketing. Each annual training should have
30 participants and be of two weeks duration.
Oilseed Pricing and Niarketing:
Establishment of data base for the oilseeds sub-sector thlat provides intformation on area.
production and yields, consumption patterns of vegetable oils according to income groups. urban
versus rural areas and on costs of cultivation of various oilcrops.
Review of fiscal levies. The import duty on oilseeds shiould be reduced from present
level of 20%  to 15%. crude oils be increased from n20% to 30% and refined oils to remain at
45 %.
A training program on pricing and marketing to train 90 in three course of 15 days each
at Egert,on University.
Establishment of a "think tank" for the sub-sector within ODC. instead of having the
"think tauk" located in V.O.P.S.
Oilseeds Processing:
Kenya should move towards import of oilseeds instead of oils to increase capacity
85
t,



JtiiizatiOn of oiiseea orocessine  ndiusirv to revive tile ;rarket tor domestic oilseeds and to
ncrease availabilit\ on orotein meat mor animnal reed.
niteoratea nroc.ssine or odisecus sinould hie e!2;oura,ed to ensure remunerative prices to
.irrners and at the s; :e rie ne zahle to  oiomnete ni hnnnorred teed.
To minimize mnvestment needs hackward integration of the existing large modern oil
rerineries should he e:couraeed. Sucil an inteiration wll bring tile refiningo inidustrv. hitiherto
fuinctionling in isoiation inito tine main stream ot the sub-sector and enihanice its role in the sub-
sector develooment.
New investment ieeds to he enicouraced in oilseed processing through inicenitives such as
substantial investment allowances in the first year and bv exempting the import of machinerv
from import dutv for a period or five years.
ODC ieeds to he provided with tlhe services of an internationial oilseed processing expert
durinp the planning and expansion of oilseed sub-sector.
A training proorain for oilseeds processine during which 10 Senior Government officials
wiil he trained in India ror 2 montils, and local training of 150 factorv operators to be trained
in various aspects of processing has been proposed and this necessitates hirinig of 4 consultanits
for two months each.
IM PLENIENTATION
The Oilseeds Development Component was expected to implement the recommendations
arising from the work of tile T.A. The following has been achieved.
Training
A training programme covering both local a overseas trainine for key personnel involved
in oilseeds research. extension and processing has been completed anld implementatioll initiated
in 1996. The following has been achieved.
Overseas Training:
The training programme was to provide training in India in-form of observation and
study mission to 30 key personnel (10 KARI Research Scientists, 10 Scientists involved in other
areas of oilseeds development other then research and 10 senior officers in the Management of
oilseed sub-sector)
To date 14 officers have been trained (7 KARI scientists and 7 from non- research areas
of oilseeds development). Non of the Senior officers earmarked for training in oilseeds sub-
86



sector management has been [rained.
The constraints to fiinalizingQ tile overseas traininie are:-
Reduction ot trainingi tunids vi 1997 98 budget such1 that 6 scientists
earmarked for trainilL could not go
While the Indiani Council of Aoricultural Research (ICAR) had committed
itself through thle Department of Aericultural Researcih and Extension
(DARE) to co-ordinate all training in lidia. thev clhanged their minid in
1997 about the training in Oilseeds sub-sector Management and therefore
the officers earmarked could not go.
To complete the overseas training b scientists and 10 Senior officers are
yet to be trained.
Local Training:
The training programme was meant to provide a two monitils training in oilseeds
development to 60 KARI officers (15 scientist, 15 technical officers and 15 technical
Assistants) two weeks training to 90 MOA extension officers (30 SMS and 60 FES) and
a ovo weeks training to 90 senior officers from public and private sector on pricing and
marketing, 90 officers on oilseeds Development Policy and 150 factory operatives. the
folowing has been achieved:-
All the KARI Research officers have been trained. However due to the reduction
of training funds in 1997/98. the technical Assistants course was reduced to one
month.
-     All the 90 MOA  Extension staff have under gone a two weeks oilseeds
development course.
-     30 officers from public and private sector attended a 3 weeks training in oilseeds
Pricing and Marketing. The remaining 60 could not be trained due to reduction
of training funds in 1997/98.
The Oilseeds Development Policy courses could not take place since these are tied
to the establishment of the ODC, and approval of the proposed policy.
;,: - The training of 150 factory operatives is tied up with the recruitment of oilseeds
processing specialists in the areas of Oil Milling, Solvent Extraction. Oil Refining
and Analysis and Quality Control. After placing adverts in both local and
I   international papers twice, consultants were identified only in the area of oil
I  milling for a 2 m/m consultancy. The evaluation of the proposals for oil milling
87
. W!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



has been finalized and approval obtained from the Centrai Tender Board. The
World Bank nio oblection to negotiate a contract hias been requested. However
within the rerainiiig life or the .\S%IP i1 it looks uniiikel v tar thiis traininig will
be implementea.
Establishment of OD)C:
The Government in October 1997 approved the oilseeds Development Policv and the
establishment of the Oilseeds Development Council to co-ordinate the development of the
Oilseeds sub-sector.  The ministry of Agriculture and tile .Ntinistry or Finance has
constituted a Task - Force to take up the necessarv actions tila  w ill lead to the
establishment of ODC.
Among tile actions to be taken wiil include the finaiizationi ot tile letislation for the
oilseeds sub-sector.
Bv tile closing date of ASMP 11 it is unlikelv thiat the ODC %kill have been established
and operationalized. It is thieretore recommended that ODC be included in the plan of
operation for ASIP.
Import Dutv
Prior to 1992/93. while import dutv for oilseeds. crude oil and refined oil were included
in the schedules, imports enjoyed 100% duty waiver. When thie Market was liberalized,
and import duty imposed. the duty structure encouraged import of crude oil as against
raw- material (seed) and refined oil. This contributed to under utilization of the oil
extraction industry and thus the market for local oilseeds.
Through proposals made import duty has progressively been reviewed as indicated
below. This should encourage imports of oilseeds for local processing while at the same
time creating a market for local oilseeds.
88



DUTY ON' IMPORTS OF OILSEEDS. CRUDE AND REFINED OILS (9%)
N EAR       SEED         CRlDE        REFINED         OILSEEDS
OIL          OIL             PROCESSIN(G
EQUIP I ENT
1992/93         30           35             bO
1993/94         25           35             h5
1994/95         20           20             45
1995/96         10            15            40              10
1996/97         5             15            35              5
To encourage modernizadion ot industrv ducv on imports of oilseeds processing
equipment has also been reduced as indicated above.
Support to Elianto (K) Ltd.
Elianto (K) Ltd. a subsidiary of Unga Group, owns one of the three solvent extraction
plants in Kenya. Its source of raw material (Maize germ) is mainly from its sister
company Unga Maize Millers. Maize germ being a by-product of maize milling, and
with recent frequent shortages of maize in the country, Elianto (K) Ltd. has operated at
less than 25% of its installed capacity. Elianto also experienced very high consumption
of steam and hexane, thus making its processing costs very high.
In 1993/94 Elianto imported 6000 MT of soyabeans for famine relief in Sudan but when
they could not use it for this purpose the option was to process it into oil and meal but
could not do so through their solvent extraction plant. About 2000 MT was custom
milled with a recovery of 50% oil and at a cost of Kshs. 3500 per tonne. thus making
the whole operation uneconomical. ASMP If through the T.A. assisted Elianto (K) Ltd.,
particularly in creating awareness of the potential of their machinery training their staff
-- in the plant and modifying their equipment to the point that they can now process
soyabean. The balance of 4000 MT of soya beans has been processed at their plant with
a 98% oil recovery. Elianto has also drastically reduced their consumption of steam and
hexane. The protein meal is also of very high value with upto 45% protein.
Apart from processing maize germ, Elianto can now process upto 6000 MT of soyabeans
per year. Prior to this there was no local processing of soyabean. a factor which has
limited soyabean production in Kenya. Currently this demand has to be met through
89



imports: however Elianto is starttiw a sclheme of contract farmine or sovabeans.
There is need to support more Mndusrrics to imrnrove ilheir efficiencv as proposed under
short and medium rerm consunianicies.
Canalizing Imports:
The idea of canalizing imports ot oiiseeds and crude oiis has been sold to tihe
stakeholders. Tlis is because most of tihe small inillers are not able to import a shipload
of oilseeds or crude oil alone. Wllile this hias not succeeded in imports of crude oil. it
is becoming etfective in imports of sovabeans. The smallest shilp load of sovabeans is
about 25.000 NIT. Tllrough thie Kenyta Sovabeans Association, imlost of the users of
sovabeans are now canalizin2 their imports. each user buvingQ the mucih hie can. It is
expected that thiis to2ether with thie reduction of dutv on imports ot oilseeds will lead to
increased utilization of the installed processing, capacitv.
Oilseeds Prodduction
Tlhrough ASMP 11 oilseeds production were expected to reach 400.000 Hac with a
production of 80.000 tonnes bv the vear 2000. With the delavs in the establishment of
ODC and tilere beino no funds allocated for production activities it hias not been possible
to implement the recommendationis arising tfrom the T.A work. However due to the
liberalization process taking place and review of import duties tciere is an increase in
hectarage of all oilcrops. There has also been a major increase in prices paid to farmers.
Sunflower prices have increased from Kshs. 4.50 per kg in 1993/94 to an average of
Kshs. 12 per kg in 1996/97 (most areas reporting between Kshis. 12 and Kshis. 15 per
kg). Soyabeans prices are between Kshs. 18 and Kshs. 20 per kg.
The progression for each oilseed is as shown below: (Hac)
1993      1994       1995      1996       Targets
Sunflower          6440      10834      9945       9080     l 1000
Groundnuts         8076      19368     16145      16432     17000
Coconut           41692    43000       42894      42980     43400
Simsim             1260       1330       1592      1630      2000
Castor                       2525       2317       2402      2500
Soyabeans           370        766       1455      1480       1500
Rapeseed                        30       250        243       300
TOTAL             57838     77853      74698      74247     77700
90



The drou2hr over the last tlhree years and particulariv 1995!96 arf'ected production.
There is need tor ODC  be in place and resource provided  to irnpletnellc the
recommendations arising from tile T..\. work it protected hectarage by vear 2000 is to
be achieved.
Additional Short and Miedium term Constiltancies:
A number of short and medium term consulitaicies were recommended bv the T.A. and
approved bv ihe World Banlk during the Mid-term Review of ASMIP 11 in October -
November 1998. Thlese included tile followinLe
Coconut Rehabilitation Studv (6 m/ni):
To review Coconut Production in Kenva in term of hiectarage productivity. competition
with other crops. other uses. research. extension. pests and disease. the consultancv is
expected to recommend and justifv a coconut rehabilitatioQn proeram  that will lead to
doubling of copra vields within the next 10 vXears.
Oilpaim Feasibilitv Studv (12 m/rn):
To carry out a feasibility study on potential for Cultivation of oil palm in Kenya. identify
oil palm .varieties suitable for areas identified. prepare a program and support the
establishment of oilpalhn nurseries and train 3 local scientist in the technologies of
oilpalm production.
Advisor Oilseeds Processing (12 mrm):
To advis* GoK, ODC and individual factories and enterprises on oil milling, solvent
extraciorx refining and hydrogenation.  He will also assist ODC  in evolving and
implementing a developmental plan to expand and develop local oilseeds processing
industrv
Specisalin Oil milling (2 rn/m):
To coinduct three inplant training courses for operatives in all aspects oil milling. He
will also -train counterparts from  ODC  and Egerton University who will then be
grespousib'e for training of operatives.
Specialistiin Solvent Extraction (2 rm/rm):
To conduct three inplant training of 2 weeks each on solvent extraction. He will also
train ihe aDunterparts from ODC and Egerton University to enable them conduct future
training.
91



Specialist in Edible Oil Refining 2 rn;mi:
The SDecialist will review thie routine analytical and quaiitv control mneasures to improve
performance ot rerinerics. ColndUct tlree inpiant training or 2 wkeeks each and train
counterDarts rrom ODC and( Egerton Universitv to enable theim conduct tuture trainings.
Specialist in A-nalvtical aind Qualitv Conitrol (2 niim):
To review  standards of oilseeds and veetable 6ils in Kenva. prepare a manual of
standard testing procedures tor routine qualitv and analvtical tests on oil miiling. solvent
extraction and refining and conduct a traininlg course for analvtical and quality control
operatives.
Oilseeds Development Policv Specialist (6 nmnir:
The TOR for the Specialist in Oilseeds Development Policv required hiim among otiler
things to assist the M(OA to establish and operationalise the Oilseeds Development
council. He was also required to prepare an Operational Manual for the ODC. These
two activities in the Inception Report were schieduled to occupy the last 6 montils of the
specialist.  Due to the delaved establishment of ODC thlese two activities were not
completed bv the time his contract caine to an end. It is proposed that once the MOA
is readv to establish ODC. that the Specialist be engaged for a period of six months
contract.
The first. second and fourth consultancies have been advertised. short listed proposals
evaluated and approved by the Central Tender Board. They have been forwarded to the
World Bank for concurrence and granting of no objection to negotiate a contract with the
identified consultunt. It is however noted that with ASMP 11 closing oni 30th June 1998
it will not be possible to implement these consultancies. It is therefore recommended that
they be implemented under ASIP.
The fifth, sixth and seventh consultancies though advertised two in both local and
international papers no consultant was short listed.  However, further search were
suspended due to reduction of funds in 1997198 allocations.
The third and eighth consultancies were suspended due to delays in the establishment of
ODC.
It is important that these consultancies be implemented if we are to achieve the objectives
of the project.
92



IMPLEMENTATION CONSTRAINTS:
The components experienced the following constraints during its implementation:
Delavs i'n thie recruitment or the T.A\. for the component. All thie four member
of the T..\. came on hoard duringa thle second year ot tile proiect.
Delavs in the completion ot final reports by T.A. Apart from the Pricing and
Marketing report which  was submitted on time. the other tilree reports were
delaved Farm Support Services submitted on 7.10/95 and Oilseeds Processing
(15/3/96) and Oilseeds Development Policv (27,4/96). instead of 25,3/95, 22/7/95
and 29/9/95 respectively. There were two main causes for these delavs.
Pavments of Consultanicv tee to the consultanits bv the contracted firm. to the
extend that some of the consultants withilield reports.
The consultants on Oilseed Processing and Oilseeds Development Policv had to
lieavilv draw from tihe report of Farm Support Services Coonsuitanit. The delay
in the completion of Farm support Services report lead to the delav in the others.
Delaved establishmenlt of oiiseeds Development Council (ODC). The component
was designed with the expectation thiat the ODC will be established before the end
of the T.A. work so as to take up the implementation of the recommendation.
To-date ODC is yet to be established. Implementation has thlerefore been possible
only for those activities which had funds allocated i.e. training and short and
medium term consultancies.
Reduction of fund allocated during the 1997/98 budget. Tlis affected training
both local and overseas and short and medium term consultancies.
Identification  of consultants for the additional short and  medium  term
consultancies. For coconut Reliabilitation and Oil palm Feasibilitv direct sourcing
never yvielded anv results and had to re-advertise twice in botil local and
interinational papers before anv meaningful short-listinlg could be done. These
consultancies are vet to be implemented.
In the absence of ODC no funds were provided to implement the
recommendations of T.A
FUTURE OF THE OILSEEDS SUBSECTOR:
The expected impact of the component may not yet be fullv realized due to the
constraints listed enumerated above. For meaningful impact to be realized the following
will need to be done:
93



Support tihe establishminent and operationalizationl of thei Oilseeds Development
Council over the next 3 vears. eithier as a proiect by itseit   or tirouil ASIP.
- nImplemeint the short and inedium term consultanc!es in (Coconut Rehahilitation.Oil
palm Feasibilitv stuov anu in Oilseeds processing imi i-niihng. solvent extraction.
Refinilln an(i auailtv control).
Complete  tile  remaining  local training  tPricino  anoa  Marketuin. Oilseeds
Development Policy and Oilseeds Processing) and overseas trainingo (KARI
Scientists. othier Scientists and Senior Officers). Tilese nave been included in the
1998/99 training plan.
Tile  Department of A-riculture  to coordinate tile  implementation  of tile
recommendations arising  from  the T. A. work.  Resources should be made
available to the department in order to achieve this.
CON'CLUSION
.-\ lot of awareness of the status ot the sub-sector hias be created. Tile sub-sector is
starting to pick-up and there is need for this mnomenituin to be sustained and increased.
This will be possible through completion of activities alreadv started. Provision sliould
be made to ensure that there is continuitv/sustainiabilitv.
94



,.  DRSRS COMPONENT:
I. BACKGROUND
1.    The present Department or Resource Survevs and Remote Sensing was set up in 1976
as Kenia Rangeiaild Ecological Mlonitoring Unit iKREMIUi) under the IDA supported Second
Livestock Development Project (Cr. 477-KE). Funidinlg for the KREMU component was
provided bv the Government of Canada (CIDA) as a co-tfinancer of the project. Its original
mandate as KREMU was to provide data on wildlife and livestock and land use in Kenya's
rangelands. The core program was periodic aerial survevs that gave population estimates and
spatial distribution or wildlife and livestock. The survevs also recorded environmental
parameters (e.g. vegetation structure, agricultural activities. presence of water).
2.    The World Bank assumed support of DRSRS under the Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project (ATAP. Cr. 1277-KE). when CIDA support ended in 1981. The principal
objectives under ATAP was to support and improve DRSRS's abilities to analvze and make
available basic data on Land use and natural resources.
11. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.     After the ATAP concluded. World Bank, support for DRSRS continued under
Agricultural Sector Management Project (ASMP 1. Cr. 1718-KE) from 1986 to 1991. Major
support components was to include the purchase of computer equipment for a Geographical
Information Svstem (GIS), support of the aerial services section. technical assistance and
purchase of miscellaneous equipment. The second phase of the ASMP program (ASMP 11
Cr. 2445-KE) started in 1992 and ends in June 1998. The basic goal of ASMP 11 is to
support DRSRS in providing essential natural resources information for the purpose of
planning and managing Kenya's economic development. To achieve this goal. the objectives
of the project are to strengthen DRSRS's capabilities to:
(a)   collect. analvze and interpret data useful to natural resource management, and
in doing so tfocus on high prioritv issues and help build a coherent data
program for Kenya:
(b)   produce these data on a schedule and in a form that allows them to be most
effectively used: and
.4o)   assist resource managers to use this information effectively.
Project objectives during the last five years have emphasized the modernization of
DRSRS/GIS computer infrastructure, enhancement of users services, training, collaboration
with other institution working in Natural Resource Assessment and phasing out of expatriate
technical assistance. Key project activities included:
(i)   improved quality of data:
(ii)   Upgrade of Geographical Information System infrastructure and it use:
95
.A                                         . i



liii)  support for aerial services uincluding airplanes and pilots). vehicles and
miscellaneous tecinnical equipment:
(iv}   expanding distributioin ot information. services to data users. and the
publications program:
ov)   improved implementation of DRcRS activities. through better work planning
and manaaement and collaborati   Itli other orzanizations:
(vi)  incremental technical and managerial srtff: and
(vii)  staff craining and increased professional development opportunities:
11. DETAILED PROJECTS AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. DATA OUALITY AND ANALYSIS
h.    Tie Departnent has been improving its data qualitv and has been refining its methods
in all spheres of data collection. reporting and analvsis. This section present a brief overview
ot the chanzes that are being promoted to improve on data quality and analysis.
5.    IMPROVEMENT OF AERIAL SURVEYS AND EARLY WVARNING METHODOLOGIES
The aerial surveys have improved the precision of tiving through the use of GPS and data
entry in the field. It takes a shorter time for the results of the aerial census to be released.
Preliminarv results are released within 2 weeks and final results within a month. After each
census the performance of each observer is gauged. In the early warning program the
department is hooked up with Kenva Meteorological Department and we do receive images
on daily basis. Additional information are also such as cloud covers and satellite images are
used to enhance the prediction of crops.
6.    EVALUATION OF WILDLIFE AND LIVESTOCK TRENDS. STATUS AND UNDERLYING
PROCESS IN KENYA RANGELANDS (1977-1998) IN COLLABORATION WITH WAGENINGEN
AGRIC-ULTURAL UNIVERSITY AND INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR AEROSPACE SURVEY AND
EARTH SCIENCES (ITC). The studv' intends to analvse the wildlife/livestock trends in the
Kenya Ranzelands for the last 20 vears and linking this to various factors (rainfall. changes
in landuse. population pressure. management. policv, tse tse distribution etc. It will also
examine the validity of the statistical models and methodology used in Aerial survevs analysis
for the last 30 years. The results of this study will be reviewed by independent referees. This
exercise *ill enhance the statistical and data modeling skills of DRSRS staff. It is also an
opportunitv to conduct an in-depth analysis of the wildlife/livestock censuses.
7. '- CROP EARLY WARNING SYSTEM FOR KENYA IN COLLABORATION WITH THE
NETHERLANDS REMOTE SENSING BOARD (BCRS) AND INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR
AEROSPACE SURVEYS AND EARTH SCIENcES (ITC). DRSRS is responsible for the provision
of a crop yield forecasting for Kenva. This information is presented annually to the Food
Security Steering Committee of the Office of the President. The current yield forecast is
calculated by estimating the areal extent of crops from aerial photographs (slides) taken in
a grid. combined with information on crop condition sampled by a radiometer in the red and
96



infrared radiation. The problems associated with the technology currentlv in use imcludes:
time consuming method to collect the red/NIR readings (readings have to be done at
a tlying height ot approximately 100m (a verv risky exercise)
the radiometer can onlv be read accuratel% tfor large fields (one sample per field),
hience there mav be considerable noise in the Red/NIR data. which will reduce the
precision of the yield estimate.
The aim of the project is to improve the qualitv and etficiencv ot' the existing methodology
of yield forecasting through an improved accuracy of the area estimate: greater efficiency of
the Red/NIR  recording;  improved precision of the Red/NIR  index and automating
calculations.
AntAigmed results:
"*'3  r1;nG    demonstration of a yield forecasting system for the most important crop
growing areas of Kenya,
enhance the training of personnel in the DRSRS to work with GIS and
.,,,..4';n,3mn4atabase programmes for crop forecasting;
''    9i   use of the yield forecasting method across Kenya and exporting the expertise
fted jo other IGAD countries.
8.    TING   ON  DATA  ANALYSIS  FOR  NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT  [N
COLLABW_ON  WITH INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR AEROSPACE SURVEYS AND EARTH
SCIENcS<(ITC). A large number of ITC alumni are employed in organizations responsible
for thly(Jction, storage and subsequent utilization of geographic information. ITC has
great z6ributed to capacity building in the first two fields and as a result several
orga nons in East Africa are currently rapidly building up extensive natural resource
^a0aW4es. This information could be employed to assist national and local government
liencies to monitor the state of the environment, to formulate policies and subsequently
implement interventions. In East Africa the information stored in these databases has so far
remained under,exploited. One of the reasons is the lack of man power with sufficient
analvtical capacity. This includes both the capacity to extract the required information from
the databases. as well as the subsequent analysis of the data. The proposed refresher course
is aimed to strengthen the capacity in these fields. The course is intended for alumni
employed in the above mentioned type of organizations within East Africa. A number of
DRSRS staff will be invited to attend the training and it is hoped in future DRSRS will be
able to conduct such training on its own.
B. Geographical Information System (GIS)
9.    The Department of Resource Surveys and Remote Sensing (DRSRS) began
development of a Geographical Information System (GIS) in 1987 with support from the
World Bank under ASMP 1. GIS development has continued under ASMP II. Much progress
has been achieved toward establishing a sustainable GIS capacity within the Department. This
section gives details on GIS infrastructure development. database development and
capabilities. and products and services provided by DRSRS.
97



10.   Intrastructure Development. The PRlhSIE 2650 was tlhe initial mini-computer installed
at DRSRS tor the purpose of housing the GIS and was installed in 1987 under the ASMP I
program. Due to power supply problems and a lack of local support. manv problems were
experienced with this platform. In 1992 a Digital Equipment Corporation VAX 3400 mini-
computer wvas installed tthroughi French Technical Assistance. Later thlis machine was
upgraded to \AX 4000 wthl a bigger hard disk capacitv and memory. The third phase of
modernizing thle GIS facliities occurred in 1996. Tenidering of the new computers was
comoieted in Julv 1996 and the installationi of the two SUN Ultra 140 UNIX workstations.
6 Pentium PCs. printers. network and UPS was completed in September 1996. The new
svstem became operational in October 1996. During the last one vear most of the data have
been transterred to the new computers. At the moment we are in the process of transferring
all the satellite images from the old tapes to new tapes. Also in the process data validation.
cleaninz and documentation of programs and datasets is continuing. The oniv problem with
these computers is with maintenanice. It has takeen a whille to get the necessarv contract
document approved by the Attornev General Office and we are hoping the contract will be
signed before the end of the credit vear.
t 1.   Database and Capabilities. In order to effectivelv contribute to environmental planning
and nationai development. DRSRS has been focusing its resources to enable the production
of timely. effective data products. A -arietv of data products have alreadv been developed
and orovided to users. During the last one vear. thle DRSRS/GIS databases have been
restructured to run efficientlv on existing hardware. The entire DRSRS 'MeAial Survevs
Database is now online allowing effective, svstematic evaluation of wilFiMMIk'v,estock.
DRSRS/GIS continues to provide inlformation and services to a widelv varietv of isers. The
core program of work focuses support toward    DRSRS aerial section wiftl/t'ivestock
survev. landuse. crop forecasting. primary biomass estimates using NOAAifVI-Iit and
eariv warning. Databases and programming are well established in these areas aa5sd
products are available. To date sev'eral publications have been produced to sumrnarlze 9%e
analvsis  of these  datasets. Standard  products  are  being  identified  for forestry,
landuse/landcover and biodiversitv databases. The following are the DRSRS/GIS databases.
Existing databases and capabilities include:
Wildlife/Livestock Survev
Landuse/Landcover NMapping
Forest Mapping and Assessment
Food Securitv (Maize and Wheat forecast)
Biomass/NDVI Mapping
Land Degradation Assessment and Mapping
Aerial Photography and Satellite Image Acquisition and Analysis
District/National Infrastructure Inventory
Library/Publishing
12.   Various programs have utilized DRSRS/GIS database including land degradation
assessment and mapping in Kenva. Kenya Forest Masterplan. mapping of Tse Tse fly etc...
Section 13 and 14 gives are some of the case studies.
98



13.   Lana degradation assessment and mappina in Kenya. Since the 1970s. a lot has been
witilessed in the development or earth observation satellite and Geoeraphical Information
System. These improvements hiave brought about new tools i natural resource management.
AGENDA  21' and tlhe United Nationis Convention on desertification attacih particular
imnortanlce to decisioni makini inrormation mnainly in developing countries. The international
(Convenntion to combat Desertiticationi was adopted in Paris in 19Q4. Its main obiective was
to comnat desertification and mitigate the etfect ot drought in countries experiencing serious
drougnt by internationial co-operation and partnership arrangemenits. in the tramework of an
integrated approach which is consistent with azenda 21. with a view to contributing  to
achievement of sustainable developmeit in affected areas. The National Land Degradation
Assessment and mapping programme was conceived and implemenited as collaborative
activity involvinig Government of Kenlya. the Roval Netherlands Government and United
Nations Environment Programme. Although the pro;ect activities were confined to Kenya,
the resuits and experience gained are expected to benefit other countries in terms of further
develonment and testing ot' land degradation assessment methodologies as well as the
possibility and techiliques of estabiishinig a well co-ordinated national database througil inter-
institutionial collaboration. The collaborating institutes in this project were: Department of
Resource Surveys and Remote   Sensing, Kenya Meteorological Department. Kenva
\gricuitural Research  Institute. National Environment Secretariat. Cenitral Bureau ot
Statistics. 1.Universitv of Nairobi (Faculties of Arts and Social Sciences). United Nations
Environmental Programme. Internationial Soil Reference and Intormationi Centre and
Universv yt' oAmsterdam. The obiective of the program are as follows:
Short term obiectives
To provide the Government of Keniya with a harmonised baseline database which can
he easilv updated and used for long-term monitoring of land degradation processes.
To strengthen the collaborative efforts of various Kenya Government agencies in
undertaking land degradation assessment and monitoring.
To further validate and improve desertification assessment and mapping methodology
developed at the Baringo and Marsabit pilot studv (Grunblatt. 1990).
Long term obiectives
To facilitate implementation ot' a plan of action to combat land degradation through
the formulation  and  development of efficient and effective strategies for
conservation of land resources.
To assist the Government of Kenva in nationial and district level land degradation
assessment and mapping efforts.
To develop practical methodologies that could be used by governments of other
countries in land degradation assessment and mapping.
To facilitate Kenyvas participation in the implementation of the African Ministerial
Committee on Environment (AMCEN) Sub-programme on the environmentallv
sound management of terrestrial ecosystems and their resources.
This exercise was conducted and supervised by the department. Most of the data used in the
studv was trom DRSRS/GIS database. DRSRS are the custodian of the land degradation
database and are still updating it and improving the models used with additional data.
'.9



14.   Using GIS for planning and Conservation in Drvlands: The Laikipia Model. A
collaborative exercise between Nfpala Research Centre (MRC). Department of Resource
Survevs and Remote Sensing (DRSRS). Laikipia Research Programme (LRP) and Natural
Resources Monitoring. Nlodeling2 and Mlanazement group (NRMI;). For well over a decade.
several azencies in Kenva have been accumulating itirormation about geo-raphical. social and
biotic attributes in Laikipia District and assembling in GIS. The result is that the data is
scattered in various locations. Ti.e collaboration is to address the assemblinz of a Laikipia
GIS database. and applving it to explicitlv deu.,ed planning issues. aspects of local
development and conservation. There is a great porential. for example to use the Laikipia
model to establish the minimum amount of information that is required to put resource use
planning in Drvlands on an informed and quantitative basis. The other services that DRSRS
has provided to MRC is conducting two aerial survevs in 1997. USAID through MRC paid
for the fuel and Laikipia Wildlife Forum provided logistical support. DRSRS is coordinating
the activities of analyzing the wildlife trends. and modeling the effects agricultural activities
to wildlife numbers and distribution and the future of this competition.
C. AERIAL SERVICES
15.   The management of the Air Services section has been localised. The recruitment of
local pilots hias been difficult due mainliv to the disparitv between Government salaries and
those offered by private sectors. The skill required for low tlving are more demanding than
those required for normal flying altitudes. The first local pilot was recruited end of 1993
under ASMP II funding but was emploved in Mav 1994. Training began immediately but was
interrupted bv fiscal problems towards the end of 1994. Another Kenvan pilot could not be
recruited during this period as cashtflow problems affected salaries and aircraft operations and
maintenance thus precluding recruitment, training and survey work. A second pilot was
recruited in January 1996. There is currently one Kenyan pilot with good experience on
actual survev work required by the department. Crop forecasting, livestock and wildlife
cenisus information normally required by user orzanisations like the Mlinistrv of Agriculture
and the Kenya Wildlife Service among other users would get a drastic halt if stability and
continuitv of pilots is not handled with due consideration. In addition one pilot cannot
effectively handle the workload.
16.   Spare parts have been acquired to maintain existine fleet of aircraft. These are already
budgeted for under ASMP 11 but tihere is need to planl for their continued ftunding bevond the
current arrangements. The cost of maintaining the aircrafts is exceedingly becoming
expensive due to ageing of the aircraft. The other options is to pursue the buying of new
aircraft witlh higher performance and added safetv standards.
D. Services to Data Users and Publications
17. '-INTERNAL WORKSHOP. A number of limitations affect performance and output of the
Department leading to inability to meet set targets. In this regard. the Department initiated
and conducted an internal review workshop. 26-29 February 1996.
The main objective of the workshop was to provide a forum for staff in the Department to
evaluate themselves in terms of efficiencv in providing resource data and information for
planning and management. Officers reported on their projects giving emphasis to outputs.
especialiv timeliness and qualitv of products. The presentations were discussed against user
100



requiremenits. The workshop agreed on tie following actions:
To adopt an integrated approach to resource assessment.
To provide timely and quality products and services that meet user needs.
To sensitise potential users on the usetulness ot departmental products and services.
initiallv throughi user workshops.
18.   UJSER WORKSHOPS. DRSRS was created to research and disseminate information for
use in natural resource planninz and manazement. As a data collection and analysis service
organisation. the links between DRSRS and the users of its products have been key to its
ettectiveness. Feedback on the products (maps. statistics. and other publications) are critical
in assessing the qualitv and appropriateness of content. The user workshops were intended
to:
To sensitise and iinform the relevant chief executives, planners, and other natural
resource managers on the availabilitv ot natural resources information as well as
capabilities t'or assessment and monitorinig at DRSRS.
To receive feedback from resources planners and managers ol the most effective
wavs of providing them wvith the intormation thev require. In addition. discuss and
recommend the most appropriate data products.
To discuss with users information needs for planning and management at the districts
and at the national levels.
Demonstrate capabilities,capacity of DRSRS in the generation of information on
natural resources for use in resource planning and management.
Demonstrate how the natural resources data bases in DRSRS can be utilized bv other
government departments in planning and management.
Discuss methods and data bases development.
Discuss collaborative mechanisms and sharing in natural resource data generation,
management and dissemination.
The seminars had the theme:  land resources assessment and monitoring and data
requirements. All three seminars focused on data needs and availability. generation modalities
and ,acquisition planning at district. regional and national levels as well as possible
collaborative and sharing mechanisms.  Areas of focus were livestock/wildlife (population,
distribution. trends. impacts. database. etc.). vegetation (forestrv. biomass. woodfuel.
database. etc.). land use and land cover (crops. settlements, infrastructure. etc.). The
seminars were held for the following categories of users: The first was for planners and
resource managers in the districts. The second seminar was for economists and planners at
nationial level involved in natural resources planning and management. The third seminar
was for individuals concerned with livestock statistics generation and use. It focused on
101



collaborationl modalities includinlL generation. use. and management ot data,'information as
wtell as provision mechanisms.
19.   PRODU:CTS AND SERVICES. Over 200 hunidred ot DRSRS/GIS technical reports have
been purcnased bv individiu.  and orgaaiizations. in addition over 5.000 individual s:tistical
suminmaries anid distributio   dps have sold. A\ wide variety ot special products have also
been prepared for users.
Collaboration with Organizations
20.   Developrment of Range Iniformation System  tor German Agency for Technical
Cooperation (GTZ). The GTZ group worked in 9 northern rangeland districts. The main aim
of their activities in arid and semi-arid areas or Kenya was to strengtheni not only the
knowledge of these ecosvstems and their present land use but also to allow more concise
regional oriented planning outputs based on limited resources. The project involved designing
and prototvping an int'ormation svstem on Range Nlanazement. The objective of creating the
database was to help district planners and natural resource managers improve the production.
utilization and conservation of the rangeland resources oft northern Kenva. Each district had
more than 50 lavers of data. The database included data on veeetation. soils. climate.
topograpliv and hierbivore. The intormation svstem was implemenited on ArcView so that it
is accessible to a varietv of users who are non GIS technical experts.
21  .   Kenva Wildlife Services. KWS is one of the users of DRSRS inlformation on wildlife
censuses. landuse and biomass and eariv warning information. The two institutions have
signed a memoranldum ot' understanding. The MoU is to strengthen the links between the two
institutions in terms of supporting the activities. reducing duplication of data collection and
collaboration in matters of wildlife management. Over the last few years KWS have hired
DRSRS to conduct wildlife and livestock census in various districts. DRSRS/GIS have been
collaborating with Kenyva Wildlife Service Commercial Division to assist in the production
of National Parkl Maps. The Lake Nakuru Map has alreadv been launched and is on sale. At
the moment the department is workingo closer with Ecosvstem division to access the data and
informationl needs of the KWS regional biodiversitv units in terms of wildlife. vegetation,
landuse. settlements and other inlformation.
22.   DRSRS and Kenva Finland Forestry Programme (KFFP) intend to conduct joint
inventorv and evaluation of Forest resources within Kenva. DRSRS shall provide services
to facilitate this exercise. This shall include personnel, aircraft and computer facilities. liaison
for logistics, as well as technical expertise. KFFP will provide technical expertise in data
collection and through its field network through use of Forestry Department Staff. DRSRS
and KFFP have jointly agree to promote in-house scientific exchange by encouraging
discussions and mutual visitations. Together they shall provide an analytical and research
environment where mutual programs of initerest can be conducted. Areas of collaboration can
be expected to inc.-de GIS. Remote Sensing, Forestry, GIS Database development and
Analysis. The objectives of this exercise is to promote Institutional support. Farm Forestry
and Forest Conservation and Manazement.
102



23.   Food  Agriculture  Organization. The  UN  Coniference  on  Environment and
Developmenit (Rio. 1992) has emphasized the need for better monitoring of the Earth's
nlatural resources. includinig land and water. Heads of States in a recent meeting of the
Commission on sustainable Development (CSD) identified two rnaior themes to be looked
at over the next years. namely a stratepic approach to treshwater management ( 1998) and
ntegrated planniig and management of land resources (2001). Both these themes need
established national and regionlal co-operative programmes and processes and avail reliable
and policy oriented int'ormation products and decision support system. DRSRS and the
Division of Land and Water Development (AGL) are forging a co-operation to address this
endeavor. DRSRS as the focal point in land Information Svstem in Kenya will be responsible
tor developing an information system  which will be linked to international and regional
networks. Alreadv DRSRS is in process to providing livestock,; human population distribution
and other data to support some ot these programs.
24.   Intesgrated modeling and assessment for balancinig pastoral food security, wildlife
conservation. and ecosystem integrit in East Africa. It is a collaborative exercise between
Colorado State University. International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI). Kenya Wildlife
Service. DRSRS. Nairobi Universitv. Pastoralist communitv etc.. The project is to develop
an integrating modeling and assessment svstem  (IMAS) that will integrate computer
modelinig. GIS. remote sensing and field studies to provide the information and understanding
necessarv to conserve biodiversitv. wildlife. and ecosvstem integritv while increasing pastoral
r'ood securitv. The svstem will enable alternative policv and managemenlt strategies to be
objectively explored, debated. implemented. and reassessed.
F. Training
25.   The ASMP 11 was intended to build capacity and capabilities in order to strengthen
the services offered by DRSRS in natural resources planning, management. and conservation.
Of critical importance to DRSRS is the need to maintain a strong training programme. Much
ot the DRSRS staff are recruited without previous experience or advanced college-level
training. The potential for advanced training tends to keep staff motivated and interested.
The training programme aims to develop skills and place staff into positiolis that are better
suited to their talents. The ASMP 11 credit has made a significant. yet limited contribution
to staff training. Thle following are some of the areas of training for whicih ASMP It funds
were applied.
26.   GIS TRAINING. The Geographic Information System has played a key role in data and
information analvsis, presentation. and management in DRSRS. In this regard ASMP II
training funds were critical to the Kenvanization of GIS operations in the Department. In
particular. the funds were used as follows:
Three senior Kenvan staff including the Director attended the 1997 International GIS
Conference in San Diego organised bv the Environmental System Research Institute (ESRI).
The conference provided an opportunity for key staff to learn about developments in
technology and management issues.
103



Two senior Kenvan staff attended the Advanced GIS Training Course in the USA
covering Advanced database design: Advanced GIS: Map objects: Programming with Avenue
and Advanced Grid. The two officers are now the principal managers of the Department's
data management system.
One officer successfully completed an Nfrc. decree course in *Geoinformation
.Systems for Rural Applications'' at the ITC.'Wage ngeen Universitv. the Netherlands. The
beneticiary is now a key member of staff in the L  a Management Division.
One officer successfully completed a diploma course in "Geo-information" at the ITC in the
Netherlands.
27 .   Environmental Assessment and Management Course. Two senior Biologists and two
senior Ecologists attended tile 13" and 14t Training Course on Environmental Assessment
and Mlanagement at the Universitv of Aberdeen in lulv-August 1996 and July-September
1997 respectiveiy. The course otters training in areas that are critical to the development
of capacity in resource assessment and management, especialiv in Environmental Impact
Assessment techniques: Environmental Auditing; Sustainable Development and Policy: and
Waste Management. The course  programmes  inciuded  field work and  workshop
presentations.
28.   Publishing Studies. One officer successfuliv completed an M.Phil. degree in
publishing at the university of Sterling. UK 1994-95. Since the products of the Department
have and are likely to be continue to be in report or book form. tile course was relevant to
capacity development in the Department. The course covered editorial functions. market
considerationis. and marketing:
29.   Finance and Public Management Course. The Director attended a short course in
Finance and Public Management at the Institute of Public Service International ([PSI) of the
Uiniversity of Connecticut, September - December 1995.
30.   Finance Management Course The Accountant attended a silort course in Financial
Management at [PSI, University of Connecticut. USA. June-July 1995.
31.   Training Needs vs Achievements. The recommended chiange of status to an institute
specialising in natural resource information collection and management requires capacity
development in specialised analytical skills. Natural resources information analvsis using GIS
for planning and management purposes demands training in policv analvsis. Tlle training
courses funded by ASMP 11 funds made significant contributions to tile realisation of the
above requirement. However, the beneficiaries were too few for the demands made on
DRSRS:
The change in status requires DRSRS to market and generate revenue to sustain some
of its.programmes. In this regard. there is need to train programme leaders and heads of
division in marketing skills, including costing of projects, pricing of outputs. market outlet.
size of market and factors influencing marketing of products. This is an aspect which will
to a great extent determine the success of the Department in a dynamic market economy.
The users seminars are a component of a marketing strategy. Tlhev will have a more
lasting effect if funds are set aside for follow-up action. User seminars have greater impact
if they are more focused. In this connection, follow-up workshops should target actual users
104



and those with greatest potential.  Follow-up seminars should be sufficiently trequent to
sustain and even accelerate momentum achieved..
G. Recommendations and Continuity Actions Reguired
32.   World Banlk supported ASNIP If funding is due to end on 30 June 1998. Several
areas of concern must be addressed to ensure continlued stabilitv and sustainabilitv in DRSRS
operationis. An immediate overriding continuitv concerin is successtul continued management
of vital operations. particularly development and maintenance of GIS operations. air services
and related remote sensing facilities. strengthening ot programmes involved in data gathering
and reporting. publication of reports and documentation. In addressing these concerns. it is
equaliv important to develop capabilities in poiicy analysis. define status and mandate within
government. and rationalize internal structure.
33.   TECHNICAL SUPPORT. DRSRS still requires technical assistance in two critical fields
of expertise GIS and aerial survey pilots. Some limiting factors include civil service
remuneration for these international competitive jobs. Both positions are now being held by
local experts. The pilots have been in their jobs for a period of less than xxx years. while
the GIS experts have been on contract for less thani 14 months. The GIS technical expert
have more than 10 years experience in GIS and programming. The overall goal of continuing
technical assistance and supporting the pilots is to provide continuitv in GIS development and
the carrving out tile aerial surveys whiich is the core activity of the department. Wildlife
census. crop torecasting and information required by various users such as Kenya Wildlife
Services. DIDC and other ministries would get a drastic halt if stability and continuity of
pilots and technical experts is not handled with due consideration. In addition there is need
to consider other aspects which have a major bearing on growth and sustainability of
programs of the Department. Some of these aspects are:
Sustainability through development of marketing of services and products
Status, and internal structure. and motivation
Location in government
Enhanced institutional role
34.   Enhanced Institutional Role. In addition to the roles defined bv the management study.
there is need to develop capabilities in policy analvsis. Suchi a program would provide for
the integration of natural resources data to policy issues in natural resources management.
Furthermore. there is need to expand training services in areas such as aerial surveys. remote
sensing, ground surveys, data management including GIS. as well as publications/public
information. All these activities should enhance the overall viability of the institute.
DRSRS has potential to develop into a national GIS institute. initially on the following
aspects:
'(a) wildlife/livestock censuses
(b) land degradation and land use/cover
Crop forecasting and Early warning
105



35.   MVIANDATE IN GOVERNNIENT. The proposed inistitute is expected to remain in the
Ministrv of 'Planning and National Development as the most appropriate institutional setting.
It is vital to emphasise that the act governing the Institute would have to he carefully framed
to emphasise its role in natural resources information ceneration. anaivsis. and management.
36.      Consultancv to Consider Sustainabilitv through Miarketiing ot Services and
Products. A consultant started work in April 1998 to develop pricing and marketing
procedures for use in enhancine revenue generation for use in sustainine departmental
programmes. Some of the factors to be considered bv the consultant include:
i)  to categories services into two: those of national importance and must be
provided and paid for from government budgetarv provisions. and cost
recovery services.
(ii)    to consider collaboration mechanlisms with other natural resources
planning, management and conservation organisations and government
departments and agencies. Coilaboration should provide for sharing
of costs, especiallv  in areas of data collection. analysis. and
presentation.
(iii)   to consider collaboration with other institutions. includingt foreign ones
with a view to hlaving such institutions use DRSRS as a platform for
their operations. but should pav for the use of facilities.
(iv) t   o  recommend  policy  guidelines. procedures. and  capacity  for
consultancy services in environment, natural resources and development
and propose an aggressive marketing strategy for services and products
within and outside Kenya.
(v)     to recommend strategies for marketing products and services taking into
consideration tile following strategies:
37.        FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY  AND GoK  BUDGETARY ALLOCATION  Financial
sustainability is a major issue identified by the Mianagement Studv. There are manv facets
to it. including revenue generation and government tfunding. On its part. the government has
been increasing its financial commitments to proerams under ASMP II. In fact some
programs are now fully (100%) tunded by GoK, including ecological assessment and
monitoring, purchase and maintenance of computer equipment and software (excluding the
recent major upgrading under ASMP 11), as well as purchase and maintenance of other
survev equipment. such as cameras. tape recorders and cassettes, etc.
A number of constraints affecting management of programs of DRSRS have been identified:
among'them are:
(a) Government funding is often constrained by spending ceilings imposed by the
Treasurv. This has resulted in failure to utilise some donor funds where GoK
component cannot be released.
106



hi Funius under .\SMP 11 C-- 45-KE  ire used bv \arious acencies or Government.
However. it one aLgenc. xled cr,wit conditioni(si ii. e lcnder orten suspends
disburseineint tor tfle %%hole (reit. ::,erebv att'ectic ail deenciesi
HA. Proc:tr.ment
.X.   rule inain iteins procured n. DRSRS are: computers. \ehicles and aircratt spares.
Procurement Ot computers. sortware and networking at a cost or llSS 105. 890 and the
[ender was awarded to NI'S Lecena Technolocgies (EPZ) Ltd. Six vehicles were purchased
3 Toyota Land Cruiser Station Waoons: I Totoia Land Cruiser Pick up: I Peueeot 504 and
I Isuzu Mini Bus) .A  conltract to supply aircrart spares was awarded to lKiS Tradeworth
.viation (UKi Lid amounting to t(SS 226.509.26. The aircratt spares supplied up to date
amounts to U.SS 149.452.11. The nalance of 1SS 77.057. 15 is expected to be delivered
before 30th June. 1998. The departrnent also commissionied a Management Studv in 199x
which was undertakent bt  LI/S Cauricorn amounting to USS t).315. The project also
provided salaries tor the pilots and tecthnical experts. This year DRSRS lhas commissioned
the ITC for consultancv on Pricing and Nlarketing. This studx shiould he completed before
tlhe end or May'. .\ substantial procurement recommended as per the Credit Agreement has
been accompiished. However. we nave been having problem  in cetting G.O.K  support
comnponlenlt ot the budget enough to taliv with thie donor tundinig support component. The
liquidity or GOK  romponlent support nas been a problem tilus delaying in pavment ot goods
and services.
107



b COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT SUB-COMPONENT:
Introduction
The Local Advisor in thie Mlinistry of Co-operative Development was resDonsible for
::nniemenEaEion tor tw o prorects i.e. the second Agricultural Sector Adiustment operation
.A-SA() ll. policy analvsis comoonent. and the second A-ricultural Sector MNanaeement
Proiect iASMIP 11. the Co-operative Component.
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE LOCAL ADVISOR
2.    The main responsibilitv of the Local Advisor was to assist the Development Planning
Division of the Ministrv in the improvement of data and information collection relating to
tile Co-operative sector. and in the tormulating of policies and programmes aimed at
enilancinge the participation of Co-operatives in the agricultural production. marketing and
processing. This broad terms of reference entailed: identification ot constraints faced by co-
operatives and formulating strategies of overcoming them: assessment of training needs ot
hne pranniniQ otticers. monitoring the effectiveness of the training and providing on-the-Job
urainng to tile planning officers: analyzing government agrtcultural policies and helping to
translate them into action programmes for implementation bv co-operatives: follow up and
monitoring of the ASMIP 1 activities in the co-operative sector: and. assisting in the design
ot operational and institutional mechanisms tor encouraging the formation and strengthening
or co-operative societies among the smalliholder agricultural producers.
ASAO 11 - POLICY ANALYSIS COMPONENT IN THE CO-OPERATIVE SUB-SECTOR
3.    The policv analvsis component of ASAO If was premised on the difficulties of
introducing and sustaining improvement in policv analvsis in the Government Ministries
dealing in Aericulture. The component was designed to address the constraints of effective
agricultural policv analvsis which were identified as: inadequate data base: lack or essential
equipment: and the high rate of turnover ot experienced planning officers. The obiective of
the component was to institute adequate analvtical capacitv and capabilitv within the
(Government that can formulate sound policy proposals in response to changing needs in the
Kenvan agricultural sector. The component was an integrated packape comprising both
traininc and technical assistance. The main output of the component was to put in place a
strong policv analvsis capability in the planning units of the Ministries dealing with
agriculture.
4.    This component was implemented at the Development Planning Division of the
Ministrv of Co-operative Development. which in 1994 comprised of seven officers including,
one Principal Economist. four planning officers and one statistician. The establishment was
10 officers. thus three positions were vacant. including a Deputv Chief Economist who was
intended to be the head of the Division and a Senior Economist. Currentiv. there are 10
officers. This component was beset with manv start-up problems. until the World Bank. one
of the two financiers had to withdraw. The report on this project has been prepared and
presented in another cover. In this report. we shall oniv concentrate on ASMP 11.
108



kSMP IT: THE CO-OPERATIVE COMPONENT
:.   .At the end of ASMP I. it had become clear that. the performance of agriculturai
sector in Kenya was being constrained bv structural iiadequacies cilaracterized bv an
inappropriate policy environment. weak managerial capabilities and the domination of the
sector by badly managed. inefficient and loss making public sector mark-eting and distribution
institutions. There was therefore a need for an overhaul ot the policv and creation of a
.ornpetitive marKeting structure.
CO-OPERATIVES IN THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
6.    The roie and functions of agricultural co-operatives in Kenva is intertwined with the
mnode of agricuitural production and marketing in the economv. The agricultural production
in Kenva is dominated bv small-holder producers. numbering over three million holdings,
80% ot which are less than two hectares. Their combined production account for over 75%
of total agricultural production in the countrv and over 50%  of the marketed production.
Most of the production and marketing within this small scale holdings is organized through
Co-operative societies. currentlv numbering 1.800. The co-operative svstem is therefore an
essential institutional framework for production and marketing of agricultural products in
Kenyva.
7.   A,nother major factor affecting the Agricultural sector in Kenva was the pervasive and
otten adverse role of co-operatives. Since agriculture in Kenva is largely small scale,
agricultural co-operatives. who mostily deal with the smaliholder. can plav a positive role in
agricultural development. However. they had shown a less than satisfactory pertormance in
terms of long-term sustainability, business development and type and level of services
provided to members.
8.    A distinctive feature of co-operatives in Kenva. had been the close involvement of the
Government in the promotion and control of the co-operative societies. The level and extent
ot Government intervention was defined under the Co-operative Societies Act. Cap 490 of
the laws of Kenya. It particularly give the Commissioner for Co-operatives wide powers over
external relations and the dav-to-dav internal management or co-operatives. Within this
control framework. co-operatives were seen as feasible channels for providing supply and
marketing services. especially to the small scale holders in the rural areas. through
government sponsored credit and farm input supply schemes. This co-operatives/government
relation created a number of problems:
(a)   It was not conducive to the emergence of a genuine member-controlled, self-
reliant and sustainable co-operative movement.
(b)   It created rigidities that are not compatible with the flexibility required for
running co-operatives as business entities, that need for quick decisions.
(c)    Standardized management systems were too elaborate and costly especially for
small societies with low business volumes.
109



/d)   The mutual self-hele character of co-operatives was eroded and co-operatives
were rormed mereiv to receive credit from government sponsored schemes,
with consequent problems of repavment.
(e}    With  re-ulated  marketing  system. co-operatives  were  given  certain
monopoiies. and as liberalization was taking root in the economv. co-
operatives were t'ndinc it difficuit to survive without them.
(t)    Audits through the Mlinistrv were unsatisfactorv with manv audit arrears in
all types ot co-operatives.
9.    With the above problems. and in the face of ceneral market liberalization in Kenya.
the monopolistic position of Co-operatives was no longer sustainable. Nor was their role as
cliannels for Government sponsored credit and input suppiv schemes within a regulated
agricultural inarketing svstem. It hlad tiherefore become necessary ihat the legislative and
policy framework within the co-operative sector had to be liberalized.
OBJECTIVES OF ASINIP 11: CO-OPERATIVE ComPoNENT
10.   The ASMP ll co-operative component was to ftinance technical assistance and
equipmelit as necessary to develop a tframeworkl for efficient co-operative development in
Krenva. The TA was to undertake the followin2:
(a)    Review the Co-operative legislation and suggest changes aimed at liberalizing
the sector with the aim of making co-operatives independent member-
controlled organizations.
(b)   Review  and determine the phased transfer of Ministrv of Co-operative
Development functions.
(c)    Review and rationaiize the strategic functions of MOCK
(d)   Carry out studies on critical co-operative policv related areas through the
MOCK Planning Division.
ACHIEENIENTS
It.   CO-OPERATIVE POLICY IN A LIBERALIZED ENVIRONMENT. This policv is embodied
in Sessional Paper No 6 of 1997. on Co-operative in a Liberalized Economic Environment.
The paper provides a policy framework for Co-operative development in a changing
economic environment and the Co-operative Management approach. The major change in the
economic environment has been the liberalization of economic activities and the emergence
of competitive market economy. Changes in the Co-operative Management approach involves
the withdrawal of state involvement in the day to day management of co-operative societies
and unions.
Ito



12.   The Paner defines a new relationship between the Government and the Co-operative
movement. The management ot co-operatives will be in the hands of the members in line
\ ith co-operative Principles. This management approach will create an enabline environment
tor making Kenyan Co-operative movement a conglomerate of true co-oneratives. Further.
it wvll make their manaaement democratic and prot'essional and enable co-operatives to be
self-controlled and self-reliant.
13.   The future role of the Government will be that ot creating a conducive environment
ror co-operative growth and development througlh formulation of effective co-operative
development policies and overseeing development and administration of co-operative
legislation. The current co-operative lezisiation has been reviewed to provide for a level
plavina field for co-operatives to compete with the other business organizations as well as
tor safeguarding the interests of all co-operative stakleholders including the members and
creditors.
14.   The policv Paper is developed in line with Government's development strategy spelt
out in national policv documents among them Sessional Paper No. I of 1994 on Recovery and
sustainable Development and the current Development Plan. The co-operative policy
document was a culmination of a series of seminars and workshops held between the
.;lovement and the Government.
15.   Co-operative Societies Act. No. 12. 1997. The purpose of the Act is to revise and
ainend thle law relating to the constitution. registration and regulation of co-operative
societies. in a liberalized economy. as explained in the Sessional Paper No 6 of 1997. The
Act applies to all co-operative societies registered under the Act. The objects are to
democratize and professionalize the management of co-operative societies by making them
autonomous, member controlled. self-reliant, and commercialiv viable. such that they
hencefortil operate within the internationally accepted co-operative principles. The main effect
of the Act is to substantially reduce state control from co-operatives. through removal of
Government intervention in the dav-to-dav management of co-operative societies. and transfer
this managemenit responsibility to co-operative societies themselves. The Act is expected to
become operational on IST JUNE. which is the commencement date.
16.   Co-operative College of Kenva Act. 1995. The objective of the Act is to make the
Co-operative College of Kenva. which has hitherto been a section of the Ministrv of Co-
operative Department. an autonomous organization. independent from  the day-to-day
involvement of the Ministry. The Act is expected to become operational on IST JULY, which
is the commencement date.
17.   RESTRUCTURING OF MOCK. Rationalization of the Ministrv entails restructuring the
Ministry in order to make it more efficient and effective in creating an enabling environment
required by autonomous co-operatives. It entails a change of the current mandate that allows
the Ministrv to be involved in the dav-to-day activities of co-operative societies. These are:
(i)    Accounts and Audit of Co-operative societies
(ii)   Co-operative Education and Training
(iii)   Co-operative Credit and Finance
(iv)   Co-operative Bank
lii



IS.   NEW MANDATE. That the mandate of the Ministry as spelt out in the Presidential
Circular No. I of 1998 be revised to read as tollows:
Xie    Co-operative Legislation:
(ii}   Extension and Advisory Services:
(ili   Formulation and Implementation of Co-operative Policv:
iv)   Registration of Co-operative Audits: and
(v)   Inquiries. Investieations and Inspections of co-operative societies.
19.   Wlhenl the new mandate and the new structure are in place. there will emerge a new
relationshilp between the Government and the co-operative movement. The management of
co-operatives will be in the hands of the members in line with co-operative principles. The
co-operative movement will be a conziomerate of true co-operatives. Further. it will make
riteir inailaement democratic and professional and enable them to be self-controlled and self-
reliant.
'l.   Thle Government role will be regulatorv in the context of normative control. catalytic.
raciliitative and in partnership withi the co-operative movement for their growth and
development.
21.   REVISED ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE OF MOCK. The re-organization of MOCK
retlects a rational structure that will be more responsive to the needs of autonomous co-
operatives, in line with Co-operative Societies Act, 1997 and the Co-operative Policy as spelt
out in Sessional Paper No.6 of 1997 on Co-operatives in a Liberalized Economic
Environmenit. It will entail:
(i)    Creation of the position of thie Rezistrar of Co-operative Societies. and that
of the Director of Administration. With these new positions. tile rational
structure of MOCK. will have the following Departments /Divisions.
(a)    Department of the Registrar of Co-oDerative Societies
This office will be responsible for all co-operative legal matters and will be
organized into two Divisions, i.e.:
*     Legal Services Division
*     Inspectorate Division
(b)   Department of Commissioner for Co-oDerative Development
This office will be responsible for co-operative growth and development of co-
operative societies. It will have two Divisions. i.e.:
112



*     Extension Services Division
*     Project Implementation Division
(c)    Director of Administration
This office will be responsible for the general administration of the Ministrv.
It will have four offices below it as tollows:
*     Deputy Secretarv in charge of Finance and Administration
*     Deputv Secretarv in charee of Development Coordination
*     Deputv Chief Economist in charge of Co-operative policy and
development planning
*     Senior Principal Personnel Officer in charge otf personnel
management and training
(d)   Co-operative Tribunal
Establishment of a Co-operative Tribunal in liaison with the Chief Justice to
be responsible for hearing and determining co-operative societies disputes.
22.   A Cabinet memorandum to seek Government approval of these restructuring changes
has been prepared, in conjunction with the Civil Service Reform Secretariat. and has been
forwarded to the Cabinet Office.
CO-OPERATIVE DEVELOPMXENT PROGRAMNINE 1997/98 - 1999/2000
23.   The purpose of liberalization in the co-operative sector is to professionalize and
democratize management of co-operatives as autonomous, member-based. self-controlled and
selft-help organizations. through policv re-orientation and. adjusting the regulatorv and
institutional system. This will institutionalize responsibilitv and accountabilitv. and make
them commerciallv viable and hence. increase their competitiveness in the Kenvan market
economy. Tllis strategy entails: regulatory and policv chiange; restructuring of MOCK;
capacitv building at MOCK and key Unions, including tihe apex bodv: and consolidating the
core activities of primary societies.
24.   The paperwork related to the regulatorv and policv change including the revised
structure of MOCK is already finalized. The proposed development programme is intended
to addtress CAPACITY BUILDING AND CoNSOLrDATiON OF THE CORE ACTLVITTES OF THE CO-
OPERATIVE MOVEMENT, WiTHIN THE COMPETTTIE KENYAN NIARKET ECONONMY. As part
of on-the-job training, all the Economists in the Development Planning Division were fully
involved in its preparation. The paper is currentiv being used as a basis for discussions with
various donors on how they can be involved in various co-operative sub-sectors.
113



"5.   EQUIPMEN. The project provided for acqpisition of two 2') computers. tour (4)
printers. one ( I) spiral bidder and one (I ) non-spiral bidder for more effective quantitative
policy analvsis. All the planned equipment have been acquired. including calculators for the
Planninm Division.
26.   TRAINING. Trainine includes: introduction to computers. a preilminarv course. carried
out at the Computer Laboratorv at the MALDMI. in which two officers trom MOCK
attended: normal Government training at Kenva Institute of Administration(KIA). where two
plannine officers from MOCK attended: and two officers have fiinalized their MA degree
courses at Harvard and Nairobi University respectively. and four short courses.
ONGOING ACTIVITES.
7.   CO-OPERATIVE DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS. Currentiv. the available co-
operative data is verv unreliable. The methods of data collection is peaged to reports from
tile field which in most cases are incomplete and to some extent overstated. The traditional
reporting system did not take into account the current data needs. Thus. the available data
can not be relied on for plannine and policy development purpose. The objective of this study
is to:-
(a)    Carry out a co-operative survey(census) that will enable a one time total
collection of current co-operative data.
(b)   Set up a system of reliable co-operative data flow to the co-operative data
bank.
(c)    Develop a co-operative continuous data tlow from the field.
(d)   Determine the main users of co-operative data and a set up a computer data
bank that will serve the need of such users.
(e)    Provide detailed data to enable calculation of co-operatives' contribution to
Kenva's GDP.
The exercise is on-going, and so far dully filled questionnaires have been collected
from 45 districts.
28.   PUBLIC AND MEMBER EDUCATION. With the new Act. the Ministry will need to carry
out public and member education on the new policy and the new law. The Ministry will
therefore carry out seminars starting from the headquarter through the provinces to districts.
In addition to the seminars, there will be public media programmes and to some extent
prepare easy to read pamphlets on the implications of the new Act. Thus the objective of this
exercise will be to:-
(a)   Inform the public, especially opinion leaders about the new Act and the new
mode of running co-operatives.
114



(h    Mlake it clear to the members that from  now hence torth thev will be
resnonsible and accountable for ail dav-to-dav activities ot their societies.
(c)    Exolain the tuture role ot the CGovernment in the creation of the enabling
environment tor co-operative growth and development.
The Seminars are plannea to take place in the month of May and June.
29.   INTERPRETATION  OF TIFE  CO-OPERATIVE  SOCIETIES  ACT.   No.12. 1997,
PREPARATION OF MODEL RILES AND SOCIETY BY-LAWS. The legal consultant has been
recruited. contracts sizned and hias alreadv presented an inception report. Thle exercise is
expected to he completed bhv tie end of June. 1998.
30.   Project implemnentation problems: In as far as working in tihe Ministry is concerned.
the Advisor is appreciative thac MOCK  effectively facilitated the Advisor's working
conditions. bv way ot an adequate ot'fice and office equipment. Thie Mlinistrv also paid the
t'irst six months salarv of the Advisor. and claimed from the ASAO 11 to avoid excessive
delavs. The main problem that adversely affected the protect was the initial freezing of the
project tunds bv the World Bank due to unfulfillment of certain conditional,ties of the credit.
The major one however. is seems to be that once the structural and liberalization framework
is completed. an implementation strategv was not provided for at the project conceptual
staee.
CONCLUSION
31.   With the new policy and the new law. the liberalization of the co-operative sector,
as well as restructuring of the Ministrv of Co-operative development is now complete. This
archers in a new beginning for the co-operative movement, with new opportunities and
challenges. The main opportunitv is t'or co-operatives to now utilize the new freedom and
dievelop the mutually selft-help and self-reliant co-operatives. The major challenge is how to
transcenid in real terms throughi intensive member education and training on the new policy
and lawv. This is where further donor assistance could be of particular use.
32.   Thle other important challenge is the need to set co-operatives in a development path,
througih a comprehensive co-operative development programme. with sub-policies of each co-
operative subsector. and well articulated programmes and projects. that would enable them
to set-up and consolidate their core activities. The other is development of a co-operative
training policv with the Co--operative College as the centre of excellency for co-operative
education and training.
33.   The implementation programme. being called for here is one that would allow for
puttine the changes that have been made and agreed upon. in place without causing any
disruptions. There is therefore a need for a programme to implement'the current changes in
the co-operative sector. without creating uncertaintv and confusion.
115



34.   As the proiect comes to an end the tollowinl2 on-o0in1 activities wvill not hiave been
rationallv concluded:
ia)   CO-OPERATINE CENSUS. Although all relevant data will be collected bv the
enid of the proiect period on 3oth Juile. 1998. the required anaivsis. together
with creation ot a new ciata collectionl svstem. mcluding calculation of co-
operative contribution to GDP wili not have heen carried out.
(h)    MIEMBERS AND PUBLIC EDUCATION. This is a inaior exercise. considering the
deep rooted changes that have been put in place. This requires a svstematic
and continuous education programme. The materials required for this training,
i.e. interpretation of the Act. Dratt Bv-laws and Rules. will hiowever be
readv. but need to be disseminated to co-operators if thiev are goinz to be of
use to them.
(c)    Co-operative Development proeramme. The current draft is of a general
macro nature. emphasizing more on policy and legal changes. As discussions
,o on between the Ministry and various donors. tciere is need to articulate for
each co-operative sub-sector. sector policies and possible proiects. This will
he assisted bv quantitative policy analvsis based on the collected data through
the co-operative census. It is this initial co-operative development planning in
a liberal environment that will makle or break for co-operatives' transition and
therefore shape their future in this countrv.
116



7.           NATIONAL ENVIRON'MIENT ACTION  PLAN  (NEAP)
CONIPONENT:
Background:
In 1992, tile World Summit on Environment took place at Rio de Janeiro.
Brazil.  Mlanv hieads or States and representative of governments enidorsed the Rio
Declarations and AGENDA 2 I. the World Global Environment Action Plan. Following this
Summit. each nation was requested to develop its own BLUE PRINT tor implementing
AGENDA 21 programmes. Kenva adopted the National Environment Action Plan (NEAP)
as its plan and process for implementing AGENDA 21.
In 1993. the Kenya Government through the former Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources initiated the NEAP Process to examine environmental challenges
t'acing this countrv. To initiate tihis process. nine task- torces were instituted to develop
various aspects of tile environment through identifvying. prioritizing. and developing strategies
for actions. To effectivelv carrv out these activities successfully. tihe Kenya NEAP Process
utilized nine (9) Task Forces covering the entire spectrum ot the environment. These
included:
l.    Policy. Institutional. Legislative Framework and Economic Incentives
2.    Biodiversitv (including forestry and wildlife)
3.    Water Resources (inland water resources. coastal and marine)
4.    Environmental Pollution Control and Waste Management
5.    Human Settlements and Urbanization
6.    Community Participation and Public Awareness
7.    Desertification anc Drought
8.    Sustainable Agriculture/Food Security
9.    National Environmental Information Systems
The members ot these Task Forces were drawn from  all sectors (the
government. private. the academic institutions, thie NGOs and the community based
organisations). It was/and still is a genuine participatorv process.
Out of this exercise, the Main NEAP Report was compiled and was
consequently adopted by tihe Kenva Government in July, 1994. The Report lays out a
number of very important principles underlying an effective environmental policy and
strategy including:
1.    Harmonization of legislation
2.    Use of economic incentives and disincentives to encourage positive
environment action
3.    A cross-the-board environmental assessment procedure
4.    Formulation of a comprehensive policv or environmentally sound land
use and settlements
5.    Greater community involvement in environment and natural resource
management
117



6.    An emphasis in environmental education
-.    Development of a stronger regional and international co-operation in
environment and development etft'orts
The NEAP  Process calls tor the strengthening  ot the environmental
institutional framework. backed by supporting legislation to ensure the coordination of
environmental policy and management. It also identifies some prioritv areas for sectoral and
cross-sectoral action.
In order for the NEAP Process to accomplish its objectives. there is a need
to establish an  independent bodv to effectively address. coordinate, and  manage
environmental matters in the country.  To put this into perspective. the following is a
description of the prioritized activities that the NEAP Process initiated to facilitate in the
institutional development and other essential aspects: develop Environmental Management
and Coordination Bill. carry out a Training Needs Assessment Study. develop EIA Guidelines
and Procedures and develop modalities for implementing environmental reforms and other
programmes. These are described below.
I.   INSTITurIONAL FRANIEWORK STUDY ON E.NxIRONMENTAL MANAGMENT: The
overall objective of the institutional studv was to assist the government in establishing
an appropriate Institutional Framework for Environmental Management to impiement
the NEAP. The study was initiated in accordance with the NEAP recommendations
and the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1996-1998)
The NEAP Report proposed various options for an institutional framework
with supporting legislation to co-ordinate the management of environmental resources.
In Phase 11 of the NEAP Process. a detailed analysis was carried out on the financial
sustainability. including personnel requirement and potential revenue of the proposed
co-ordl..ating and management agencv. Detailed analvsis was also carried out on its
relationship with the District Development Committees: especially the line ministries
in the field, non-governmental organizations. local community groups. etc. The
NEAP Secretariat worked verv closelv with the current on-going Programme on
Restructuring of the Civil Service.  Networking (linkages) with implementing
ministries/departments at the national level were considered. The then Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources (MENR) initiated discussions with the Attorney
Generals chambers on establishing modalities to review and harmonize all legal
provisions relating to the environment in various statutes.
The studv was awarded to the Environmental Development Consultants Ltd,
an Irish firm. The key tasks included:
a)    Preparation of an inception report outlining main options and related
issues
b)    Organisation  of a' consultation  process  including  participatory
workshop to review the inception report and provide guidance to the
consultants regarding their further work
118



cl    Preparation ot the final report
The estimated consultancv time was three man months over a period of five
mnonths.
It commenced its work on 'nd September. 1996. Two -workshops were carried
out during this studv. Thie first on 16tlh September. 1996. sought the participants views on
'I'is study. The second which was held in Januarv 27 - 28. 1997 deliberated on four key
areas of tihe studv. namelv:
a)    The formulation of effective policies to address the main resource and
enviroinmental issues.
b)    The improved management ot' natural resources and environmental
services. including the use of both persuasion. command and control
(including law entorcement) measures.
c}    Capacitv  building. including  the  skill and  financial resource
implications. and
d}    The relationships between central and locallv-based institutions and
stakeholders: includinlg the extend to whlicih resource planning and
management tunctions can/should be progressivelv de-centralised
Tihe Consultants completed its task on 28th February, 1997, on the
understanding that they would finalize the Draft Final Report. after the meeting of the
Steering Committee, which was convened by the NEAP Secretariat on 30th May,
1997. The meeting made proposals for incorporation into the Draft Final Report,
includingu developing an executive summarv. The same was communicated to the
Conisultants. who have since incorporated most of the comments raised by the
Steerinp Committee and submitted the Final Report.
The Steering Committee will in due course consider this Report with a view
to finalizing it. However, important elements of this Report have been incorporated
in the Environmental Manazement and Coordination Bill. 1997. It was a successful
studv which  provided  useful recommendations  for the  proposed  National
Environmental Management Authority for Kenya.
2.    ENYTRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION BILL: The NEAP Secretariat
through the then Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources wrote to all
Permanent Secretaries. Vice Chancellors of the Public Universities and other
interested stakeholders on 25th November, 1996. forwarding a copy of the Draft Bill
to all these parties and requested their comments and observations on this Bill.
Ample time (about three months) was given to the parties to go through the
document and to make their suggestions and recommendations. The response was
good. A committee was set up to examine and review comments received with a
view to incorporating them into the Draft Environmental Bill. This Committee did
119



a commendable job of incormoratin2 these sue2estions into the Bill.  In our
assessment the Bill hias been substantiallv strengthened.
In addition. the NEAP Secretariat contracted a lawver to translate important
elements  :arious sections of the Bill into a iegal laneuage and finalized it. The Bill
was sial   11 December. 1997 by tile then NMinister ot Environment and Natural
Resource  lid forwarded to the Attornev General for counter sienature and onward
transmission to the Cabinet.
TRAINING, NEEDS ASSESSMEN'T STmDN): The need for training and skill development
are teatured prominentiv In both the Environmental Policv and the NEAP Report as
kev tactors in strengthening institutional capacity in environmental management. The
NEAP dealt with the issue ot'f uman resource development at a broad level. but there
was a need to turther develop the broad recommendations into specific priority areas
of actionl.  In thlis regard. the NEAP Policv Report assisted the Government in
developing a training strategy through commissioning a studv to identifv training
nieeds at all levels. includinz the public. private sectors. NGOs. and communitv based
oruanisations.
Modalities tor implementing the studv report were prepared through a
consultative process involving Government Departments. and the World Bank. The
NEAP Secretariat initiated other efforts to facilitate implementation of the study
report. These initiatives include: development of the Terms of Reference (TOR) for
the consultants. consulting with the World Bank with a view to receiving a no
objectioni letter to initiate this studv, and invited firms to bid for the study. Four
firms out of five which were invited responded.  A committee was identified,
comprising of the Senior Staff Officials from the then Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources and other sectors to adjudicate on these firms with a view to
identitfving a competent firm. Kamfor Company Ltd had the highest score in points
and was thlerefore awarded the contract.
The Studv officialiv commenced on 29th April. 1997 and progressed on well.
As per the Contract Agreement. this studv was scheduled to take about two (2)
inonthis. trom the date the parties entered into the agreement. The consultants did not
comnmenice tiheir work as scheduled due to other contractual obligations, which were
llot executed in good time. leading to some delavs in the completion of this study
within the specified period.
A Steering Committee to guide this study was established and held its first
meeting on 24th July, 1997 to deliberate on the first draft Report of this study by the
consultants. Subsequent committee meetings followed to ensure that the Report was
finalized to the satisfaction of all the parties concerned.
4.    PUBLICATION OF THE NEAP NEWSLETTER ON QUARTERLY BASIS: A no objection
was given by the World Bank to initiate this process. The Work Plan and Terms of
Reference (TOR) for the consultants were developed and approved. The NEAP
Secretariat identified the consultants to undertake the exercise.   Modalities were
worked out to have the consultants sign for their contractual papers. However, this
120



exercise never started due to excessive delavs in responding to requests. especially.
long delays in releasing Exchequer Issues, from the Treasurv.
5.    REPRINrING MAIN XEAP REPORTS AND ITS SUNINIARY: Ai no objection authoritv
has been sought and oranted hv the World Banlk to do so. This could oniv be done
if the GOK matching funds were made available. The rationale for producing more
copies of these documents are dictated bv public demands. The GOK matchine funds
were not forthcoming. hence, we were not able to complete the reports of additional
required copies.
6.    PUBLICATION OF PROVINCIAL WORKSHOP REPORTS AND SECTORAL REPORTS:
Once again, a no objection authoritv has been sought and given bv the World Bank.
We are waiting for the release of funds to put the necessary mechanisms in place, i.e
editing and publishing them. We were later informed that the GOK matching funds
were not available. necessitating incompletion of this task.
7.    DRAFr ENVIRONMfENTAL LNIPACT ASSESSNENT REPORT (EIA):  Th1e NEAP
Secretariat held a meeting with the World Bank and discussed the modalities of
finalizing this programme. It was agreed that a Small Working Group be identified
to work on the Draft Report and finalize it.  We have developed. strengtihened the
EIA Document and has been finalized.
8.    NEAP/ASIP PROGRANWE:  This programme was jointiv done bv the National
Environment Action Plan (NEAP) Secretariat and the Ministry of Agriculture.
Several meetings have been held to work out modalities of imnplementing this
programme. Two workshops were held where the NEAP's EIA Guidelines were
reviewed and modalities established in utilizing them in all agricultural programmes
and projects to minimize environmental damage caused by agricultural activities.
Relevant recommendations were generated. One of these was a need to train Kenyans
on the importance and use of EIA Guidelines and Procedures.
9.    ENVIRONMENTAL SECTOR REFORMS PROGRAMME: The Environmental Adjustment
Credit (EAC) is part of an on-going reform  process. intended to bring about
improvements in the ways the Government addresses environmental protection. and
strengthening its economic growth strategy.
The main objectives of this programme are as follows:
a)    To complete the review of progress in implementing the current PFP
(1996-1998);
b)    To enable the Task Force to focus on the scope and nature of future
reforms, and:
c)    To identify the means and process for action.
A Workshop was organised by the NEAP Secretariat from Januarv 11 - 12.
1997, to look into the various issues such as Policv Framework Paper. Draft Sessional Paper
121



on Environment and Development. Draft SessionaL Forestrv Policv. Current Development
Plan (8th Development Plan). Biodiversity. Climate Chanee and Desertificacion Conventions.
Other matters being addressed bv the Core Workiini GrouD of the Task Force
in readiness for the World Banl Identification Mlission include. reviewvine the Terms of
Reference (TOR). organizing the relevant workshops for articulating EIA and hiow these
-uideliines can assist the aericultural sector in minimizing damage to the environment.
The World Bank Mlission which was scheduled to visit Kenva between August
and September. 1997 on the EAC discussions and preparations was later postponed. pending
discussions among IMF. the World Bank and the Kenva Government.
In addition. the work plan and the proposal to utilize the Japanese Grant of
about Kshs. 13 million was developed bv the Task Force on Environmental Reforms to
implement some ot the NEAP Reforms was submitted to (he World Bank in March. 1998.
These funds are intended to facilitate key NEAP Reforms.
THE NEAP AND STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT. 23RD NOVEMIBER 1992
I.    The NEAP  Process was intended  to provide a framework  tor integrating
environmental considerations into Kenya's overall economic and social development.
The NEAP identified the major environmental problems. laid out an overall
environmental strategy to deal with the problems and provided a very specific plan
tor:
a)    actions to be taken by government:
b)    modified existing projects and programmes: and
c)    an environmental investment program which specifies
projects needed to address the environmental strategv (this has not yet
been done)
SCOPE AND COVERAGE OF THE KENYAN NEAP
2.    NEAP has had an indepth coverage. The following list includes those issues and
problems which have alreadv been reviewed and strategies and recommendations
made (see next page).
122



1,\ PO{LICY, INSVlTUCIONA AI) \1.1 :(;ISI.A'1'% I Ft1\1 ilmi mmi
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1  .. _i                                                  4..fl.                Ni. .            .      ...... .  ~ .. _ I
DeveIipili. a luitiotial eilvirmilliniae         l poilicy  in                       x                                                                    (cd sCNoia4   I'i4llc                      I a   lhc 1.1b l in tlic
Kciiya'                                                                                                                                                    8ul   a.lliallcill
Strengthehninii  anidl imiproviig iinstitutional                                                              x                                            G (itili  piovii'  m.   N liccii do         m lii..  liiN  NlA.    Im l
arranlecileilts (ir iiler-niniiiisterial and  iIlICr-.-l'ClL)                                                                                              li,id  4II1.t14161,41 poi like lnPAt IN till tiili-Ii
cmordiiittiio  ien ettviromtulleItal imatiers.                                                                                                             i uiN  liNl  illS I i ii Ie ci 01.tbiii dl ii II A1nd1    L ll. L1INI .llA 101%
(Oll ClIcili ltiliilit;.t  IIladItc%  e .  ! 1 tlei\ i Nily CL,
llpriolinig enivir(i ,ini:intal lccislatiu (tio rtct ccL  Mid                                                 x                                            D )C\vC ii      L i 11)Cd 1 1lll  IhIIli  llc 1.s111'1i%i.Itill. 
give legal backinig  io rp)licy and  iiistitutimial                                                                                                         W7
re e oIiiiietidtaitioiis.
Integratillg  pI)pulatiOil policies intO tfie                                                                 x :                                          licilLe do14 I en itia   CLI  1c     1 1tll
enivironminietal  ramniewirk aid  viLe verSit.
Developing enviroinimlenital iontirmati on systems to                                                         x                                            lik L    lliiimlncittal Bill, 1997  - INmuimtlilti  il
support civiromneiital decisioni makiiig and                                                                                                               Fimelwoii        1 tir IEmkonimiiceim.il NlIlnl,mem
pr4ilitte hetter use amid coniservatioin  of tile
envirollllmellt.
Developing  a national land use policy  infludinig  the                                                       x                                            Bcing  develtiped  by  tilc  hlinisi ol III aI i11  amill
treatimeint (f lauid  tcniure issues as may  be itecded.                                                                                                   Scitleniciet
123



lopill.il  g)4licy IMi cIovirimm t   iIal i                                                                1                     1 i;  ;___ _ _  _
l   sS.%S%11Ic1 1:11(1 ; III illsitialli,ol,;,l fIIlamewov'rk Ior ic.
oelinSislemllS wsill%h such pol'licy1
124



Hij     OrltTER SEC TORAI. ANI) SmrEcwI- C ENvIRK\XII:NI Isst I:s
C..0   I          \I          Nol           St Ni4 t
Agricinlture ani  livesttok - Preventioni of                          x                         Ikitig d%cs,dupd ihy Niitiisnry nl Agricuilture
land degradation,t maitteianice tf water
supplics; use ofr agro-cheiiicals.
Forestry - Prevetititnl of deforestatio)n:                            x                         FIrest Poilicy approved by Ile C(aitutct. 199%5:
pronnitiew( of stesfainable uses; pWrotection ti
,   Zgtcletteiits; iaitemitece at labIlitaJt for
wildfih.
Wildlife nitiaagemienit - Improvement in                                                        Policy hla  been developed. Act beeng reiiewed
wildlife protection, inemtives to latiedowners
to protuct wildlile: incrc.ase its and protection
of habitat: develetpnietit of lantd use policies
consistent wilh wildlife objectives.
Mainteciatiwe of bitwliversity - Cotservatint                         x                         Stratcgy Action Pl.en at advanced st;tage'  ot
of habitat: susta;inable use of gc,c(Ietic                                                      ItAdlop)tiic
resources; conservation ott speies dliversity
its uispiotctetl area;s.
125



I}s ulrisiul -  e ml tIIdcrsNia jtgim  tIi'                                            X                                I l1k iC'. ...Im  plan ilu    i 4  t-is NlAIA                   lc il 
comtillics fit' lilurislil    Prl vl)"ide sruuiIi rm er                                                                    i
jTsii   tiltor plrowt,:ioltr atki cotlst valtion,
Ienisigre s.
I Imaiiau s.ileti iteois; andI rhbianizailon -                                            x                                 i  i   .   .m1n  ics (Ithimidi NEAII l; lNccA Pk,litit l,ll
Promotiunio,, of rural dcvdlopniieti
elpl4I0yincl)1 as alrtenlaIs ve to urhant
Environimitemal ue     i saltuelices of industrial                                        x                                IliI4flt4 il N lAI  ricummiuc4iu      t i t llcw n       I Ili ,II  III
sIz.vehaltlplemcl" Depciol ft'r Scae ll;lt:nlmal1U\IsI$I ll                                                                                    ( '011"An;s  101   eLCAIL, I')')
festaulces: air iti.d wat1er pollutil rli         sp u ranspoi
sto1rage auid disposal 41f hazardous wastes.
Water reso urecs - ConservationO  t41 wetlands;                                           x                                \tI.lmld Plt   dv)  l      h v\lpiolloll 1Ii '   ccni ifliialvd
ma;rimt  aiid catat;s;l  etwSULxeS LIISen-aliiou;
alitbcaitif .     arce waler resources;
developmemt ol  piu)licy o11 witer usage ;alld
riglIils.
Eitlcrgy - PIMonition, ati .eIlrgy cihxjliX                                                                              I lId :   Pty  1o1cs.t l'4            . i     tcy' l(tct\\v III 1 Vooc   Ati
alterimtivesi 141 fitlwilIld anidl str,lgI(liIiII                                      woil  tiallie Su.sIaitil;lily anld  1ml11.I!IlICIIIl III
resear:ds ald appliCitatitli (f retevWahiC                                                                                 ttsi 4orLcs
sOburc:ss  IIIiIigaiemioI  tit adverse eLivirTolmIktl
eifects (if liydrt) ati  I   fhental power
gt *wratiout l.acilities.
126



Enwifrnmiital etIucadmiII anld public                              x                        8dilyt iiplelnliletlc  by all scvors
awarcitms (if cuwinnmiiietital issues.
Develkilwicli andl applicaion of                                   x                        Eivironweintal EcLtmomic.s beiiig *1evc1opcd aiid teiiiy,
ClWviroinUiWIWal qcont llics - Proulidt                                                     applicd acrtiss scors
awareness by pilicy nakers and public of
high ecnmic cogs of cnvironmental
depdadikN and inefficient resource
depletion.
127
f-,~~~~                    ~~ A J4iy         l',  '.w1 ' 
.4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~~~~



PROCESS FOR DEVELOP&E'%- OF THE NEAP IN KENYA
3.    The NEAP process has represented a majc- -ommitment and undertaking of the
Kenva Government in partnership with    ronmentallv conscious groups and
individuals outside ot government. The p .zess of NEAP preparation itself has
served to strengthen environmental awareness. cooperation and functions within and
outside ot the government.
It has had contributions from all stakeholders. that is. Government departments.
parastatals. public academic institutions. NGOs. private sectors. religious groups,
women and youths. and the communities. Through this Process. NEAP is being
integrated into manv programmes.
128



4.    IN '1ERNIS OF FUNCTIONS, TIIE PROCESS IIAS SUGGESTED AND ACCONIPLISIIED TIIE FOLLOWING AS INDI(CATED BEI.O()W:-
e-                                            COIoI' i-r    ONGOIN    NOr     STATI IS
11)        G          Y l.
Definition of principal environmental issues and problems, analysis of causes,  x                            NEAP Report adopted
and development of recommendation for action to deal witih tile problems -                                   by the Goverinmenit in
conducted by task groups with wide participation from governmelmt and a variety                              1994
of non-governmental representatives, and making maximum use of the
substantial work which already exists in many of Kenya's environmental
problems;
Compilationi df a first draft NEAP by the NEAP Working Group (see below)      x                              Successfully (lone
based on papers from each of the task groups (see below);
Review of the draft recommendations, etc, by local, regional and national     x                              Siiccessfullly dOlle in al I
seminars, conferences and workshops, leading to revised dralis based oil thlese                             eighit Provinces of
participatory inputs;                                                                                        Kenya
Review by an iiterniationlal conferenice on Kenya's NEAP;                                           x        Environmental
hivesimeint Study not
done
;inal reviews and revisions and presentation to governmenit for approval;    x                              Successfully done
129



PROGRAMMES THAT HAVE NOT BEEN DONE OR PARTIALLY STARTED
ENVRONMENTAL INVESTMENT ANALYSIS PROGRAMME: An investment plan will be
developed for the proposed programmes. The plan will review the current on-going
projects in the Public Investment Programme, their relationships to the recommended
actions and propose modifications of existing projects so as to incorporate environmental
considerations. New activities may also be proposed. The investment plan will provide
detailed information on the financial aspects.
The NEAP Secretariat will liaise very closely with the sector ministries in this exercise.
2.    OUrREACH PROGRAMME: This programme is meant to sensitize the public, the
stakeholders and various interested parties on the need to conserve the environment. To
do this, we intend to hold workshops for the industrialists and manufacturers. Also,
workshops will be carried out in the district and provincial levels.
There is need to engage a consultant to translate the NEAP Summary Report to swahili
language for wider readership and contribution.
3.    DEVELOPING ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS: The intersectoral task force to study and
review current status of Environmental Standards need to be established. During this
exercise, workshops will be carried out to deliberate on the Task Force(s) work.
Proposed Terms of Reference (TOR) have been submitted to the World Bank and
comments received from the Task Manager, pending discussion with the Bank on the
modalities of implementing the work. This has not materialized yet.
RECOMMENDATION: These unfinished NEAP activities will need to be done through
other funding sources in order to realize the full impact of the NEAP Process and its
reforms.
IMPLEMENTATION BOTTLENECKS
The main constraints which have hindered the effective implementation of work within
the Secretariat include:
44
a)    LACK OF FUNDS OR INSUFFICET FUNDS: More than one programme cannot be
initiated at the same time because of lack of funds. Sometimes, the on-going
programmes stall as the Project quite often experiences shortage of funds,
prompting them to go beyond the scheduled timeframe.
130
I



Environmental Sector Reforms: The secretariat facilities are being provided bv the NEAP
Secretariat to the task force charged with this responsibilitv. One of the kev outputs of this
programme that has a direct linkage to the NEAP is the preparation of the Environmental
Investment Programme.
TRAINING SERVICES: In the past, the NEAP Secretariat has sponsored local workshops and
the members of the NEAP Process to participate in short courses abroad. This exercise is
on-going. For example. the NEAP Secretariat and KENGO will hold a joint Corporate
Environmental Policy Course in Mav, 1998. Other training courses covered: Environmental
Impact Assessment. Environmental Education and Environmental Economics - strategic
planning.
ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ENvIRONWENTAL WNFORMATION CENTRE: The NEAP Secretariat
intended to establish a documentation library, but it was not possible. However. it has been
proposed in the Environmental Bill. 1997. Once this Bill is enacted. the proposed National
Environment Management Authoritv (NEMA) has a unit for Environmental Information.
EIA GUIDELINES: A national conference on Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) will
be undertaken in an effort to finalize the draft report. This can be done utilizing other funds
after June 30th, 1998.
THE ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF THE NEAP PROCESS
a)    Government adoption of the NEAP Report as a broad strategic framework for
environmental conservation and management (July 1994).
Smpleting the NEAP on time, before end of June 30th 1994 has enabled Kenya to
continue receiving the IDA funds for sustainable development projects.
c)    The NEAP Secretariat has plaved a very important role in facilitating the completion of
the Draft Environmental Management and Coordination Bill. This Bill has been
finalized. Modalities are being worked out to have it forwarded to the Cabinet for
deliberations and enactment into law.
d)    NEAP Institutional Study for Environmental Management was finalized in March, 1997.
The4hnportant elements of this study were incorporated into the Draft Environmental
Bill, 1997.
e)  'Eompleted the Sessional Paper on Environment and Development, awaiting submission
to the 8th Parliament.
f)    The Training Needs Assessment Study was completed. Necessary mechanisms will be
put in place to implement its recommendations.
g)    Sessional Paper on Environment and Development: The NEAP has been central in
assisting the former Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. and now the
Ministry of Environmental CoAservation in the coordination of an editorial committee*-
responsible for transforming the Policy on Environment and Development into a
Government Sessional paper. The first draft Sessional Paper was distributed to various
131



sectoral agencies for comments and review. Comments were also received from the
World Bank. Thle editorial committee has finalized the Sessional Paper. It will soon be
tabled in the current Parliamentarv Session tor adoption.
h)    The NEAP Report is currentiv being used as a key reference document for integrating
environmental concerns.
i)    The Finance Bill for the Fiscal Year 1994/95 incorporated the NEAP recommendations
on economic and fiscal incentives.
j)    Cabinet's adoption of the National Policv on Environment and Development (1995).
k)    Completed Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Guidelines and Administrative
Procedures. Process initiated to submit the document to the Cabinet.
I)    Development of linkages with other initiatives in the field of environmental and
sustainable development are being established e.g Environmental Management and
Coordination Bill. 1997. Process of submitting this Bill to the Cabinet is on-going.
m)   Developed and completed the First Issue of the NEAP Newsletter (August. 1996), and
hias been widely distributed to various institutions and manv stakeholders through
workshops. seminars. both local and international.  Comments from  stakeholders
revealed that the NEAP NEWSLETTER served as an excellent tool for networking and
outreach programmes for educating people about the NEAP reforms and enhanced the
understanding, appreciating, and creating awareness on environmental issues. Other
subsequent issues of the NEAP Newsletter were not possible due to financial constraints.
PROGRAMMES THAT ARE AT ADVANCED STAGES
1.    ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEEENT AND COORDINATION BILL: This exercise is at its final
stages.  Comments on the Draft Bill from  all the Permanent Secretaries, Vice
Cliancellors of the Public Universities and other stakeholders have been incorporated
into the Bill. A lawyer was contracted to translate important recommendations of the
Draft Bill into a legal language.
A Draft Cabinet Memorandum for forwarding the Bill to the Cabinet was prepared to
forward the Bill to the Cabinet for further deliberations and approval.
2.    INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONM[ENTAL MANAGEMENT [N KENYA: This
study was officially completed on 28th February, 1997. The Steering Committee at its
'-rteeting on 30th May, 1997, proposed amendments to be incorporated into the Draft
Final Report. The Steering Committee further proposed that an executive summary of
the Draft Final Report be developed. The suggestions have been forwarded to the
132



consultants and we are now waiting for the finalization of the Report.
Important elements of this Report have been incorporated into the Environmental
Manaeement and Coordination Bill.
3.    TRAING NEEDS ASSESSMENT STUDY: This Study officially commenced on 29th April.
1997 and it is progressine on well. A Steering Committee to guide this study was
identified and held its tirst meeting on 24th July, 1997 to deliberate on the first draft
Report by the consultants. Subsequent committee meetings will ensure that the Report
is finalized to the satisfaction of all the parties concerned.
On completion ot this exercise, modalities will be worked out to implement the
recommendations of this study.
4.    PRODUCTION OF NEAP NEWSLETrER ON QUARTERLY BASIS: A no objection authority
was sought and received from the World Bank to print the Newsletter on quarterly basis.
The Proposal. TOR, and the budget were developed and approved by the World Bank.
We have already identified the consultants but the exercise cannot start as funds are not
available at the moment.
Consultations are going on to locate some funds for the exercise.
5.    NEAP/ASIP Programme: This programme jointly being carried out by the National
Environment Action Plan (NEAP) Secretariat and Ministry of Agriculture through ASIP
Secretariat has held several meetings to work out modalities of implementing it.
-  *  The activities which are being carried out include, identifying consultants to
develop a concept paper on the seven sub-sectors of agriculture, recruiting
representtives from ministries, whose areas of operation is in line with the
activities being addressed by this committee, so that in the final analysis, each
ministry will be required to implement recommendations that belong to them.
*     Resource persons to develop the concept paper on agricultural sub-sectors of
agriculture e.g agro-chemicals, agro-industry etc will be contracted soon. The
NEAP Coordinator has convened and chaired many meetings of the Working
Group on this exercise. The TOR and shortlisted Resource Persons have been
forwarded to the World Bank.
These "were the initial ideas to use the EIA Guidelines and Procedures to assess
agricultural activities on the environment. However, it was later changed to have two
workshops to evaluate agricultural policies, acts, procedures, etc. using strategic EIA.
Theie workshops were organized through the sponsorship- of the NEAP Secretariat.
These workshops yielded important documents, which facilitated the World Bank Mission
to carry out Appraisal of ASIP between 22nd - 24th April, 1998.
133



PROGRAMMES THAT HAVE NOT BEEN DONE OR PARTIALLY STARTED
ENVIRONNIENTAL INVESTMENT ANALYSIS PROGRAMSIE: An investment plan will be
developed for the proposed programmes. The plan will review the current on-going
projects in the Public Investment Programme. their relationships to the recommended
actions and propose modifications of existing projects so as to incorporate environmentl
considerations. New activities may also be proposed. The investment plan will provide
detailed information on the financial aspects.
The NEAP Secretariat will liaise very closely with the sector ministries in this exercise.
2.    OUTREACH  PROGRAMwE: This programme is meant to sensitize the public, the
stakeholders and various interested parties on the need to conserve the environment. To
do this, we intend to hold workshops for the industrialists and manufacturers. Also,
workshops will be carried out in the district and provincial levels.
There is need to engage a consultant to translate the NEAP Summary Report to swahili
language for wider readership and contribution.
3.    DEVELOPING ENVRONMENTAL STANDARDS: The intersectoral task force to study and
review current status of Environmental Standards need to be established. During this
exercise, workshops will be carried out to deliberate on the Task Force(s) work.
Proposed Terms of Reference (TOR) have been submitted to the World Bank and
comments received from the Task Manager, pending discussion with the Bank on the
modalities of implementing the work. This has not materialized yet.
RECOMMENDATION: These unfinished NEAP activities will need to be done through
other funding sources in order to realize the full impact of the NEAP Process and its
reforms.
IMPLEMENTATION BOTTLENECKS
The main constraints which have hindered the effective implementation of work within
the Secretariat include:
4.,
a)    LACK OF FUNDS OR INSUmCENT FUNDS: More than one programme cannot be
initiated at the same time because of lack of funds. Sometimes, the on-going
'v   programmes stall as the Project quite often experiences shortage of funds,
prompting them to go beyond the scheduled timeframe.
134



b)    REGULATioNs FOR PROCURiNG SERMICES: Sometimes it takes long to procure
services. due to reasons beyond our control. These delays cause programmes not
to take-off or be completed as scheduled.
C}    DEPUrY NEAP COORDINATOR: The Deputv NEAP Coordinator left the NEAP
Secretriat to tke up a job with UNSO/UNDP. The Secretriat sought a no
objection authority from the World Bank to recruit two Deputy Coordinators, one
to deal with the Outreach Programme and the other to deal with Capacity
Building Programme. A no objection authority was given for the Outreach
Programme. However. this did not materialize and because of this, the NEAP
Coordinator has-had to handle all the NEAP activities on his own as the only
professional for -more than a year. It has been a heavy responsibility; and at
times, it has been over-stretching.
d)    DRAFr ENVRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT (EIA): This programme
was left pending for sometime due to other commitments, such as coordinating
the activities of the following programmes: Draft Environmental Management and
Coordination Bill, Institutional Framework Studv for Environmental Management
in Kenya. NEAP/ASIP Programme, Environmental Sector Reforms Programme,
etc.
These were some of the constraints which hindered completion of certain aspects of
NEAP. Inspite of all these constraints, the overall assessment of NEAP is good. It achieved
its objectives subsuntially, and its mnpacts have been felt as demonstrated by many sectors now
using the NEAP Report as the basis for all environmental and developmental efforts. Many
recommendatiolis are being implemented by many stakeholders. It is a continuing process.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 21659
t~~~                     ~      ~    ~~~ . .  ,i .. . . .      . .
~~~~~~K. ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ r 4,
N. 8,'                                /      A                        <4,                      ;  0X      0
\~~~~~~N                       I              F it\                                ,.K*@       
<    \       r    H 4    ; . j   A
W~~~ l                                                   z   ~.                           /                         I2
ci~  ;.   ........1
>~~~~~~~~U 
"U ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~"HM-I
z    ..                          Z~~~~~
4~~~VYJI  1V
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UE18



