Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2445 KE
                   Development Credit Agreement
          (Second Agricultural Sector Management Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated March 1, 1993
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2445 KE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "CB" means the Borrower's Cotton Board established
pursuant to the Cotton Act, Chapter 335 of the laws of the Borrower;
      (b)   "DRSRS" means the Department of Resource, Surveys and
Remote Sensing of the Ministry of Planning and National Development;
      (c)   "ESTU" means the Executive Secretariat and Technical
Unit of the Parastatal Reform Program Committee;
      (d)   "GIS" means Geographical Information System;
      (e)   "KSA" means the Kenya Sugar Authority established
pursuant to the Agriculture Act, Chapter 318 of the laws of the
Borrower;
      (f)   "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
      (g)   "MOCD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Cooperative
Development;
      (h)   "MOLD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Livestock
Development;
      (i)   "NEAP" means the Borrower's National Environment Action
Plan;
      (j)   "NES" means the National Environment Secretariat within
the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources;
      (k)   "NGO" means a Non-Governmental Organization;
      (l)   "ODC" means the Oilseeds Development Council to be
established under the Project;
      (m)   "SSRS" means the Sugar Sector Restructuring Study
referred to in Part B of the Project;
      (n)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to a letter dated August 31,1992, from the Association and
confirmed by the Borrower on September 21, 1992;
      (o)    "Special Project Preparation Advance" means the special
project preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower,
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 8, 1991, and June 4,
1991, and November 6, 1991, and June 1, 1992, between the Borrower
and the Bank;
      (p)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and
      (q)   "bring to the point of sale" means that for the
enterprise concerned the following have been completed: the
valuation of assets and liabilities, and evaluation of such
enterprise, preparation of the strategy for privatization and
determination of the modality for sale, as well as preparation,
advertisement and issuance of the prospectus or the tender
documents.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
Page  3
equivalent to thirteen million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance and the Special Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance and the Special
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing March 1, 2003, and ending September 1, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on September 1,
2012, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
Page  4
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending; the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, financial and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December
31, 1993, restructure CB with greater industry participation; and
(b) not later than June 30, 1994, have privatized at least three of
CB's cotton ginneries, and privatized, or brought to the point of
sale, the remaining three CB gins.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1994, following the completion of SSRS, carry out the privatization
plan for the sugar industry, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, which shall include, by December 31, 1994,
privatizating two sugar factories, and privatizating, or bringing to
the point of sale, the remaining sugar factories.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1993: (a) establish ODC, with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association; and (b) establish a mechanism satisfactory to the
Association, to enable ODC to be self-sustaining.
Page  5
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall upon completion of the
studies on the cooperative sector, referred to in Part D of the
project, but in any case not later than December 31, 1993, discuss
and reach agreement with the Association on an action plan to
implement the recommendations of said studies.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than nine
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE V
Page  6
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower shall have appointed the NEAP Coordinator
referred to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, on terms
and conditions and with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Association;
      (b)   the Borrower shall have appointed the financial
controller referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, on terms and conditions and with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association;
      (c)   the Borrower shall have established the DRSRS Steering
Committee referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
      (d)   the Borrower has prepared the packages for inviting
technical assistance proposals, satisfactory to the Association and
ESTU has approved the terms of reference of the consultants working
on privatization of cotton ginneries and sugar factories; and
      (e)   the Borrower has prepared the training program for
Part E of the Project with details of the first year's training,
satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister at the time responsible for finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 30007
            Nairobi, Kenya
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINANCE                   2282 MINFIN
                   Nairobi                   Nairobi
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
Page  7
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                         By /s/ Denis D. Afande
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Francis X. Colaco
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                140,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                60% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)   Vehicles, furniture        850,000        100% of foreign
      and equipment                             expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)   Consultants'             6,750,000        100%
      services and studies
(4)   Training                 2,710,000        100%
(5)   Incremental
      operating costs:
      (a)  Aircraft              530,000        100% of foreign
           operation                            expenditures
           (excluding
           fuel)
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
      (b)  Vehicles               90,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 80%
                                                of local expen-
                                                ditures up to an
                                                aggregate of
                                                $70,000, 50% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                up to an aggregate
                                                of $100,000, and 30%
Page  8
                                                of local expen-
                                                ditures thereafter
(c)   Office expenditure         270,000        100% of foreign
      and equipment                             expenditures,
      maintenance, and                          80% of local
      allowances                                expenditures up
                                                to an aggregate of
                                                $200,000, 50% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                up to an aggregate
                                                of $320,000 and 30%
                                                of local expen-
                                                ditures thereafter.
(6)   Refunding of               350,000        Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7)   Refunding of                60,000        Amounts due pur-
      Special Project                           suant to Section
      Preparation                               2.02 (c) of this
      Advance                                   Agreement
(8)   Unallocated              2,050,000
                               _________
           TOTAL              13,800,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) develop key
agricultural sub-sectors by fostering greater private sector
involvement; (b) reform the cooperative sector to make cooperatives
more efficient and responsive to member needs; (c) increase the
overall efficiency of MOA and MOLD by rationalizing their role,
structure and strategic functions; and (d) ensure the sustainable
use of the Borrower's physical resources by strengthening the
Borrower's capability to factor in the impact on the environment of
agricultural programs and policy initiatives.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Cotton Sub-Sector Development
1.    Establishment of an appropriate legal and institutional
Page  9
framework for the cotton industry, including a restructured CB.
2.    Facilitation of reforms in the processing and marketing of
cotton, including the privatization of the six CB cotton ginneries,
rationalization of the organizational structure of the cotton
cooperatives, and establishment of quality control systems for lint.
3.    Improvement in the technological support to cotton farmers,
including development of a system for the production of good quality
seed, formulation of appropriate research programs and strengthening
the extension system.
4.    Provision of training and acquisition of equipment to support
above activities.
Part B:     Sugar Sub-Sector Restructuring
1.    Carrying out a sugar sub-sector restructuring study.
2.    Formulation of privatization/restructuring plans for five
sugar factories.
3.    Strengthening the regulatory framework for the sugar industry
and developing the capacity of KSA to fulfill its functions.
Part C:  Oilseeds Sub-Sector Development
1.    Establishment of a legal, institutional and policy framework
for the sustainable development of the oilseeds sub-sector to
achieve cost-effective import substitution and export promotion.
2.    Formulation of appropriate research and extension programs to
provide technological support to oilseed farmers.
3.    Improvement of skills amongst key personnel involved in
oilseed research, extension and processing.
4.    Provision of training and acquisition of equipment for above
activities.
Part D:     Program to Restructure Cooperative Sector
1.    Review of cooperative legislation with a view to liberalizing
the sector and making cooperatives independent member controlled
organizations.
2.    Carrying out a study to determine the phased transfer of
MOCD's functions to the cooperative movement.
3.    Carrying out a study on rationalizing MOCD's new role.
4.    Carrying out studies on critical cooperative policy-related
areas.
Part E:     MOA/MOLD Capacity Building
1.    Identification, formulation of plans as necessary, and sub-
sequent implementation of the revised roles and functions of MOA and
MOLD in a changing liberalized agricultural sector framework.
2.    Strengthening management of operations in technical units of
MOA and MOLD, that will remain in the public sector.
3.    Facilitating commercialization and cost recovery in appro-
priate functions of MOA and MOLD, including the provision of
agricultural services.
4.    Facilitating privatization of appropriate functions of MOA and
MOLD.
5.    Provision of training, carrying out of studies and acquisition
of vehicles and equipment for abovementioned activities.
Page  10
6.    Construction and furnishing of prefabricated office space for
about twenty officers.
Part F:     Strengthening of DRSRS
1.    Carrying out a detailed management study of DRSRS, to examine
DRSRS' current capability and outline a core program of activities
for the next three years.
2.    Assistance for the GIS.
3.    Support for aerial services, including operation of aircraft
for natural resource-related work, repair and maintenance.
4.    Support for information services, including the publications
program, library, literature database, and extension services to
users; acquisition of computer and peripheral equipment and
supplies, provision of staff training, workshops and extension
training of users of DRSRS products and library materials and
equipment.
5.    Strengthening data quality and staff productivity.
Part G:     NEAP
1.    Final preparation and implementation of NEAP including:
      (a)   appointment of a NEAP Coordinator;
      (b)   establishment of a policy steering committee;
      (c)   formation of a NEAP Working Group;
      (d)   formation of task groups to prepare individual
components of NEAP; and
      (e)   setting up of advisory group of donors, private sector
and NGOs.
2.    Acquisition of office equipment and transport for above
activities.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Kenya may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  11
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods and vehicles estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $750,000, and for civil works
estimated to cost $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $220,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Spare parts for aircraft may be procured on the basis of
arrangements by inviting bids from the original manufacturers of the
aircraft and from manufacturers of components and sub-assemblies
where applicable.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Parts A, B, C and E
Page  12
1.    Parts A, B, C and E of the Project shall be implemented under
the overall direction of the Agriculture Sector Committee to be
established by the Borrower not later than March 31, 1993, to be co-
chaired by the Permanent Secretaries of MOA and MOLD. The other
members shall be the Director of the External Resources Department
of the Ministry of Finance, representatives of MOCD and ESTU, and
the chairpersons of CB and KSA. The chairperson of ODC shall become
a member once ODC is established and a chairperson appointed. The
committee shall have overall policy guidance, resources allocation
and review responsibility for these parts of the Project.
2.    The day-to-day implementation of Parts A, B, C and E of the
Project shall be managed by the ASMP Management and Implementation
Committee (MIC), chaired by the Project Coordinator. The Committee
shall be comprised of the heads of the Development Planning
Departments of MOA, MOLD and MOCD, heads of Technical Departments of
MOA and MOLD and the Financial Controller to be appointed under the
Project. The MIC shall develop project teams in technical and
sectoral areas to implement Parts A, B and C of the Project.
3.    The privatization of cotton ginneries and sugar factories
shall conform to the Policy Paper on the Public Enterprise Reform
and Privatization published on July 1, 1992, by the Borrower. ESTU
in its role within the Agriculture Sector Committee referred to in
paragraph 1 above, shall approve the terms of reference of the
privatization consultants under Parts A and B of the Project and
supervise the privatization aspects of the consultants' activities.
Part D of the Project
4.    Part D of the Project shall be implemented by MOCD. The head
of the Development Planning Department of MOCD shall be Project
Coordinator.
Part E of the Project
5.    The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1994,
following work done under Part E of the Project, discuss and agree
with the Association on an action plan to strengthen key technical
functions of MOA/MOLD, and commence the commercialization and/or
privatization of identified MOA/MOLD functions. The Borrower shall
by March 31 in each year, prepare and furnish to the Association a
detailed annual training program based on identified training needs,
cost effectiveness considerations and an evaluation of the previous
year's training program.
Part F of the Project
6.    The Director of DRSRS shall be responsible for implementing
Part F of the Project. The Borrower shall establish a steering
committee, chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Planning and National Development and consisting of the Permanent
Secretaries of MOA, MOLD, Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources, Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of Arid, Semi-
Arid and Wasteland, the Director of the Kenya Wildlife Services and
the Director-General of the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute.
The DRSRS Steering Committee shall meet at least twice a year and
shall be responsible for ensuring that the DRSRS work program
focuses on the Borrower's high priority natural resources-related
issues. DRSRS shall, by March 31 in each year, prepare and furnish
to the Association, a management/work plan, acceptable to the
Association, which shall be endorsed by the Steering Committee, and
shall also incorporate the lessons learned from the evaluation of
the previous year's management/work plan.
Part G of the Project
7.    The NEAP shall be prepared in two stages: (a) The first stage
shall focus on getting agreement on the NEAP process itself and the
institutional framework for its implementation. This shall involve,
inter alia: (i) an explanation of the concept of the NEAP process
Page  13
based on broad participation, (ii) formation of a representative
group to discuss this process, and (iii) appointment of a NEAP
coordinator with experience satisfactory to the Association; and (b)
the second stage shall involve the implementation of the NEAP
process, including, inter alia, (i) preparation of terms of
reference for Task Groups, and (ii) initiation of the work of the
Task Groups.
Mid-term Review
8. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1995, carry out
jointly with the Association a mid-term review of the Project. At
least three months prior to such review, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association, such reports as shall be needed to
undertake the review. The review shall focus on the progress in
implementing the Project and in particular assess: (a) the progress
of recruiting and managing technical assistance, assessing its
impact and sustainability, (b) implementation against performance
indicators, (c) implementation of training programs under Part E of
the Project, and (d) long-term impact and performance of technical
assistance and officer consultants.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required,
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, for
                   the payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
Page  14
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account,
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Arti-
cle V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association,
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made, pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule, shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
Page  15
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
