                                          DOCUMENT     OF
                                        THEWORLDBANK

                                 FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                      '    REPORTNO.      27627-MX



   INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT

                                  PROGRAMDOCUMENT


                                      FORA PROPOSED

                                  PROGRAMMATIC LOAN

                        INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$100MILLION

                                              TO THE

                                 UNITEDMEXICANSTATESFOR

                 AFFORDABLE HOUSINGAND URBANPOVERTY

                              SECTORADJUSTMENT LOAN


                                          APRIL 27,2004




FINANCE,PRIVATESECTORANDINFRASTRUCTURE
MEXICO COLOMBIACOUNTRYMANAGEMENT
       AND                                             UNIT
LATIN
    AMERICA ANDTHECARIBBEANREGION



   This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
   performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World
   Bankauthorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                Currency Unit : Mexican Peso

                                    EXCHANGE RATE
                             Dec. 31,2000 Mexican $9.59 =US$1
                             Dec. 31,2001 Mexican $9.13 = US$1
                             Dec. 31,2002 Mexican $10.27 =US$l
                             Dec. 31,2003 Mexican $11.25 = US$1

                               WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                        Metric System

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1-December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

  BANSEFI                  Bank of National Savings andFinancial Services
 CAS                       Country Assistance Strategy
  CBO                      Congressional Budget Office
  CENAPRED                 National Center for Disaster Prevention
  CNBV                     NationalBanking and Securities Commission
  CODEVISU                 Coordination Agreement for Housing and Land Development
  CONAFOVI                 National Housing Commission
  CONAVI                   National Council of Housing
  COPLADE                  PlanningCommittee for State Government
  COPLADEMUN               Planning Committee for Municipalities
  CORRETT                  LandRegularizationCommittee
1 DDS                    I Direct Demand Subsidies                                      I
  EA                       Environmental Assessment
  FDI                     Foreign Direct Investment
  FONAEVI                 National Fundfor Low-Cost Housing
  FONDEN                  NationalFundfor Natural Disasters
  FONHAPO                 Low-Income Housing Fund
  FOVI                    Financial Housing Aid Fund
  FOVISSSTE               Housing Fundfor the Social Security Services Institute o f the
                          Public Workers




          Vice President:                David de Ferranti
          Country Director:              Isabel Guerrero
          Sector Director:               Danny Leipziger

 I        Sector Manager:                John Henry Stein
          Task Team Leader:              Anna Wellenstein                              I

                                          Page ii

                                                        FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




 I GDP                I Gross Domestic Product                                  I
   GOM                  Government of Mexico
   HUSAL                Programmatic Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Sector
                        Adjustment Loan
   HUTAL                Housing. and Urban Technical Assistance Loan
   IBRD                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
   IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
   INDESOL              National Institute for Social Development
   INFONAVIT            Institute for National Housing Fundfor Public Workers
   LICONSA              Industrial Milk ConasuDo
   MW                   MinimumWage (1MW=MX $1,20O/month =
                        US$lOS)/month)
   NAFTA                North American Free Trade Agreement
   NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
 I PROCEDE
   OECD               I Organization for Economic CooDeration and DeveloDment
                        Programfor Ejido and Urban Land Regularization
   PROSAVI              Special Program for Housing Credit and Subsidies
 ~




   SEDESOL              Social Development Ministry
   SHCP                 Secretarv of the Treasurv and Public Credit
   SHF                 'Federal Mortgage Corporation
   SOFOLES              Financing Societies with Limited Purposes
   UDI                  Investment Unit
   VIVAH                Savings and Subsidies Program for Housing
   WBI                  World Bank Institute




This documenthas a restricted distributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
/withoutWorld Bank authorization.                                                      I


                                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                                             PAGE

 LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY                             .................................................................................................................           v

 1.     RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVE                            ...........................................................................................................          1

 11.    HISTORICAL CONTEXT                    .......................................................................................................................           2

 111.   MEXICO'S HOUSINGAND URBANREFORMAGENDA 2001-2006                                                                           ..........................................    6

    A. NATIONALHOUSINGPOLICY AND INSTITUTIONALFRAMEWORK.............................
    B.  HOUSINGSUBSIDIES.                                                                                                       ............................................ 7
    C. HOUSINGCREDIT AN
    D. URBANREAL PROPERTYREGISTRIE
    E.  NATIONAL URBANPOLICY, SLUM UPGRADINGAND INSTITUTIONALSTRENGTHENING 14
    F. LOW AND MODERATEINCOMELANDDEVELOPMENT..............................................................                                                                     15
    G. DISASTER PREVENTIONAND MANAGEMENT....

 Iv.    THE PROPOSEDLOANS                     .....................................................................................................................            17

    A. OBJECTIVESOF THE PROGRAM...                                              ...............
    B.  CONTENTOFTHE! PROGRAM........                                           .....................................................................................          18
    C. ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS...............................................
    D. CONTENTOFTHELOANS...................................................................................................................18
    E.  FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE & INSTITUTIONAL & IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS.......22
    F.  ENVIRONMENTAND RESETTLEMENT                                            ...................................................................................... 23

  V.    THE MACROECONOMICFRAMEWORKFORTHE PROPOSEDOPERATION                                                                                               ....................  24

  VI.   BANK STRATEGY              ................................................................................................................................            25

  VII.  BENEFITS     ...............................................................................................................................................           26

  VIII. RISKSAND MITIGATION                     ...................................................................................................................            27

  M. RECOMMENDATIONS                       ........................................................................................................................            28


 TABLE 1: SUMMARYLEXICONOFAFFORDABLEHOUSINGAND URBANDEVELOPMENTIN
          MEXICO.............................................................................. ....................................................................             4
 TABLE 2: OVERVIEW OFMEXICOHOUSINGAND URBANSECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM.......20
 TABLE 3: MEXICO'SMAINMACROECONOMICINDICATORS..................................................................24

ANNEXES                                                                                                                                                                        29

Annex 1: Policy Matrix                                                                                                                                                         29
Annex 2: Letter of DevelopmentPolicy                                                                                                                                           38
Annex 3: Environmentaland SocialAspects of the HUSAL                                                                                                                           44
Annex 4: Mexico - FundRelations                                                                                                                                                48
Annex 5: Status of BankGroupOperations                                                                                                                                         49
Annex 6: Statementof IFC'sHeldand DisbursedPortfolio                                                                                                                           50
Annex 7: Mexico at a Glance                                                                                                                                                    52




                                                                  Page iii

This operation was prepared by a World Bank team composed o f D. Biller, T.
Campbell, R. Chavez, L. Chiquier, M. Freire, W. Gwinner, M. Hoek-Smit, E.
Mosqueira, K. Oleson, C. Piedrafita, P. Pini, M. Sabella, V. Serra, T. Solo, J. Stein, C.
Velazco-Weiss. The team was lead by A. Wellenstein and Bruce Ferguson. Peer
Reviewers were Christine Kessides, Omar Razzaz, Jan Brzeski, Robert Buckley, and
William Cobbett. The team worked under the general guidance of John Henry Stein
(Sector Manager), Maria Emilia Freire (previous Sector Manager), Isabel Guerrero
(CountryDirector), and DannyLeipziger (Sector Director).




                                    Page iv

                                            MEXICO
   AFFORDABLEHOUSINGURBANPOVERTYPROGRAMMATICSECTORADJUSTMENT LOAN
                        AND


                             LOAN PROGRAMSUMMARY
                                     AND


Borrower          United Mexican States

Implementing      Secretary of the Treasury and Public Credit
Agency

Poverty Category  Not Applicable
Amount            US$ 100 million
Terms             Standard IBRDTerms

Commitment        0.85% on undisbursed loan balances for first four years, standard charge of
Charge            0.75% on undisbursed balances thereafter, beginning sixty days after signing,
                  less any waiver.

Front-End Fee     1%of loan amount

Objectives,       The operation proposed inthis ProgramDocument representsthe first of a series
description, and  of quick disbursing loans to support the Government of Mexico's (GoM) low-
benefits          income housing and urbanprogram. The proposed first Affordable Housing and
                  Urban Poverty Sector Adjustment Loan (HUSAL I)         in an amount of US$ 100
                  million will support initiatives already completed. The second HUSAL of US$
                  100million and third HUSALof US$ 200 million will follow 12 and 24 months
                  later, depending on the pace of reform implementation. A Housing and Urban
                  Technical Assistance Loan (HUTAL) will accompany this three-year adjustment
                  program.

                  Mexico is at a critical point in its demographic history where affordable housing
                  and related urban development represent crucial challenges for the country's
                  socio-economic development. Although population growth rates have slowed
                  dramatically, the formation of new families by the "baby boom" of the 1970s
                  and 1980s will double the number of total households and the resulting demand
                  for housing and basic services between the years 2000 and 2030 as this group
                  comes of age. The institutions and financial architecture necessary to serve
                  about 60 percent of families are largely in place. Low and moderate-income
                  families, however generally lack formal-sector support. If this problem goes
                  unaddressed, the resulting informal settlement, lack of housing, and attendant
                  social, economic, environmental, and health problems will generate enormous
                  private and public costs. The Government has committed to address this critical
                  challenge by doubling formal-sector housing production to 750,000 housings
                  solutions per year by 2006.

                  This operation furthers this goal in seven key areas, which compose the
                  objectives of the program:




                                           Page v

                          Develop a sound national policy and institutional framework for housing
                          and urban development;
                          Design and put in place a unified housing subsidy policy that facilitates
                          access of low/moderate-income families to housing and leverages
                          household savings and privatecredit finance;
                          Strengthen the housing credit and savings systems, and move these
                          systems downmarket;
                          Strengthenurban real property registries and rights;
                          Increase the supply of urban land and access by the poor and improve
                          this market's function;
                          Coordinate and support physicaland social investments to systematically
                          upgrade poor neighborhoods; and
                          Better prevent and managethe impacts of natural disasters.

Risks             The cross-sectoralapproach i s relatively ambitious, and -thus- may risk timely
                  approval of the second and thirdloans. However, the natural synergies and
                  complementarity among these areas require a comprehensive packageto be
                  effective. The GoM and the Bank address this riskthrough a well-designed,
                  integrated strategy and a small number of key prior actions.

                  The project must also deal with severalagenciesto achieve the intended reform.
                  The Program deals with this risk by relying on the leadership of the Ministry of
                  Finance (SHCP) -the key counterpart of the loan- while worhng closely with
                  the sectoral agencies incharge -CONAFOVI for housingpolicy, SHF for
                  housing finance, and SEDESOL for urban development.




Net Present Value Not Applicable

Project           PO70371
Identification
Number




                                          Page vi

                                  IBRDPROGRAMDOCUMENTFOR
     A PROPOSEDPROGRAMMATICLOANTO THE UNITED MEXICAN STATESFOR
           AFFORDABLEHOUSINGAND URBANPOVERTY SECTORADJUSTMENT

                                    I. RATIONALEANDOBJECTIVE

1.       Affordable housing and related urban development represent crucial challenges at this critical
point in the Mexico's demographic and socio-economic development. Population growth rates have
decreaseda percentage point every twenty years, going from 3% per annum in the 1960s to around 1% in
2002. However, the coming of age of the "baby boom" of the 1970sand 1980swill acceleratethe pace of
new household creation, doubling the number of total households and the resulting demand for housing
and basic services between the years 2000 and 2030. This demand will increase at even higher rates in
cities as the country continues to urbanize. The institutional and financial architecture necessary to serve
about two-thirds of the families is largely in place. However, low/moderate-income families generally
lack formal-sector support. If   this problem goes unaddressed, the resultinginformal settlements, lack of
housing, and attendant social, economic, environmental, and health problems will generate enormous
private and public costs. Housing and urban investment also account for around 10% of Mexico's GDP
and the construction sector consistently generates 9% of all employment. Finally, housing is the main
asset of most families. GoM has responded by giving housing a high priority, setting a bold goal - to
double production to match the rate of new household formation (750,000 housing solutions per annum) -
and putting in motion reforms to support housing and land markets, target assistance to the poor, and
generateeconomic growth through housinginvestment.

2.       This operation supports Mexico's medium-term reform agenda in affordable housing and urban
poverty. It consists of a quick-disbursing loan (US$ 100 million) that will be followed in the second and
third years by quick-disbursing loans of an estimated US$ 100 million and US$ 200 million, depending
on reform progress. A Technical Assistance Loan will accompany this three-year sector adjustment
programinorder to support the related policy changes.

3.       The program's overall objective i s to assist the Government's efforts to improve the living
conditions and access to real assets of low/moderate-income households. Specifically, the operation
supports GoM to: (a) develop a sound national policy and institutional framework for housing and urban
development; (b) design and put in place a unified federal housing subsidy system; (c) strengthen the
housing credit and savings systems, and move these systems downmarket; (d) strengthen urban real
property registries and rights; (e) coordinate physical and social investments to systematically upgrade
poor neighborhoods; (f) increase the supply of urban land and access by the poor and improve this
market's function; and (g) better prevent and manage the impacts of natural disasters.

4.       The program helps Mexico to achieve three objectives of the CAS discussed by the Board on
April 15, 2004: poverty reduction, competitiveness, andenvironmental sustainability. Most fundamental,
the project will improve affordable housing and basic services, and strengthen the real assets of the poor.
In addition, housing often serves as a key source of capital accumulation and income generation for
low/moderate-income households. Improving urban development enhances the efficiency of cities, which
account disproportionately for national economic growth. The project will generate highly positive
environmental impacts through upgrading existing slums and promoting formal-sector development on
appropriate sites with rational layout.

5.       The Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex 2) and the multi-year matrix of policy
and institutional reforms for the proposed operation and potential subsequent loans (Annex 1) lay out the
medium-term reforms supported by this program.

                                           11.      HISTORICAL        CONTEXT

6.        Access to housing and urban services strongly support both economic growth and poverty
reduction. Mexico has a robust urban economy. About 66% of the population lives in urban centers and
80% of GDP originates in cities.' Under previous administrations, many aspects of housing and urban
policy have clashed with attracting investment and reducing poverty. About 40% of newly formed
households (300,000 per year) earn less than 3 minimumwages (below US$ 327 per month) and cannot
afford a finished house in a serviced neighborhood. National government has largely lackedthe means to
reach this group. Most federal programs and policy have, in effect, targeted moderate and higher income
households, while financial institutions and developers have yet to reach the low/moderate-income
market   .

7.        As a result, lowlmoderate-income families have mainly resorted to informal settlement and
incremental buildingof their own units over five to fifteen years inorder to afford homeownership. When
unsupported and unguided by the private and public sector, such development generatesenormous public
and private costs; in the form of insecure tenure, poor construction, low quality, unhealthy environments,
and inadequate and costly service provision. Roughly half of all new housing production continues to
occur informally without support from formal-sector institutions, prejudicing the country's socio-
economic development and these families' life prospeck2

8.        The Government has committed to address this critical problem by doubling production of
housing solutions and by promoting a sustainable expansion of the sector. To attain this goal, the
administration is taking measures to reform institutions and policies and to address the key bottlenecks in
the sector. These actions include: (i)          increase the efficiency and equity of housing subsidy programs,
harmonizing these efforts so that they provide comparable levels of subvention for similar uses, and
coordinating their administration; (ii)expand and diversify market-rate housing credit; and (iii)                     reform
urban development, property rights, and landmarkets.

9.        The operation proposed in this Program Document represents the first of a series of quick
disbursingloans to support the Government of Mexico's (GoM) low-income housingand urban program.
The proposed first Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Sector Adjustment Loan (HUSAL I)                                 in an
amount of US$ 100 million will support initiatives already completed. The second HUSAL of US$ 100
million and third HUSAL of US$ 200 million will follow 12 and 24 months later, depending on the pace
of reform implementation. A Housing and UrbanTechnical Assistance Loan (HUTAL) will accompany
this three-year sector adjustment program.

10.       Demandfor Housing and Urban Services. New household formation - and, hence, demand for
new housing and related urban services (basic infrastructure, and land)- runs at about 750,000 housesper
year. According to CONAPO (National PopulationCouncil) the maturation of Mexico's "baby boom" of
the 1970s and 1980s will result in a doubling of demand by the year 2030 by adding 23 million new
households to Mexico's existing 22 million households in the year 2000. About 40% of this demand
(300,000 per year) comes from families earning less than three minimum wages who in general cannot
afford to purchase a market-financed commercially-built unit even with significant subvention.                               In




 This refers to the systemof urbanareas made up of cities with populationsover 15,000. All together, these cities account for
*68,000,000last
            inhabitants.
  Over the     decade, institutionalmortgagefinance has financed an average of around325,000 unitsannually-roughly half of
new householdformation of 750,000 families per year.



                                                          Page2

comparison, current formal housing production financed by an institutional mortgage ran over 500,000
unitsin2003.3

11.        While rapid new household formation requires expanding new housing and urban services,
improving existing homes and communities holds equal importance. Over 80% of Mexicans already have
rights to the property in which they live.4 However, a large portion of these homes and attendant urban
services and those of the surrounding communities are of poor quality. Approximately 2.5 million houses
require major improvements and 1 million need replacement. These less-expensive "housing solutions"
cost a fraction of the purchase of a new commercially-built home5and -thus - represent the financially-
sustainable alternative for most low/moderate-income families. In addition, surveys show that Mexican
low-income households - as those in other countries - strongly prefer improving their existing home and
their community to moving to a new unit in a social housing development far from work and critical
social networks (friends, family - i.e. social capital). For various reasons, improvingthe existing housing
stock and poor neighborhoods - in effect, support of the progressive building and upgrading process -
holds key importance for low-income households.

12.        National housing policy and institutional framework. Until the last three years, the federal
government lacked an effective vision for reform of the housing sector. Similarly, the federal agencies
involved in housing - FOVI (which has become SHF, and has lead responsibility for development of
market-rate housing credit in Mexico), FONHAPO (a federal social housing agency), and INFONAVIT
and FOVISSSTE (off-budget provident funds that receive mandatory contributions from, respectively,
formally employed private-sector employees and federal-government employees) - operated with neither
an overall strategy nor coordination. No agency existed with responsibilityfor sector policy.

13.        Housing subsidies. Over the last five years, Mexico has launched two small-scale (total funding
of US$ 300 million in 2003) housing subsidy programs - Prosavi now operated by SHF (previously by
FOVI), and Tu Casa (formerly called "Vivah")                   now operated by FONHAPO. These two subsidy
programs used wildly different levels and methods of subvention. Until recently, the Prosavi program
transferred a federal subsidy of approximately US$ 6,000 (in 2002) for purchase of an expandable unit
built by private-sector developers and financed by private-sector financial institutions. In turn, Tu Casa
operated by FONHAPO delivered a federal subsidy of US$ 3,000 (matched by $3,000 from local
government) for a core unit developed and financed by state and local housing institutes. These initial on-
budget federal housing-subsidy programs have proved useful trials, but can be substantially improved - a
pre-requisite for expansion of funding to a level necessary to have an important impact in reaching the
government's goal of producing 750,000 housing solutions per year as intended. However, until the last
three years, no plan or policy agency has existed for building on these subsidy programs to develop a
unified national subsidy program-the mechanismthat has proved most effective inLatin America.




    For 2003, this included approximately: 291,400 units financed by INFONAVIT; 54,300 by SHFBOVI; 68,300 by
FOVISSSTE; 23,000 by FONHAPO, and63,000 by other sources. This productioncovers new demand and some of the backlog
in the above 3 minimumsalary incomehouseholdsegment.
  About 60% of these homeownershold full legaltitle, while 40% have various degrees of para-legalrights to their property. The
Mexican homeownership rate of over 80% compares to that of 67% in the US and in Canada, and an average of 61% in 16
WestemEuropeancountries.
   The least expensive commercially produced unit costs US$ 16,000 and is affordable only to families earning above five
minimum salaries without subsidies. In contrast, major home improvementand/or expansion costs US$2,000 to US$4,000 and
i s affordable to householdsearning 1.5 to 2.0 minimumsalaries. Other relatively low-costhousingsolutionsincludeconstruction
of acore unit on alot already ownedby ahousehold(US$6,000 to US$ 8,000), andpurchaseof an existing unit in a low-income
settlement (aroundUS$10,000).



                                                        Page 3

Table 1 Summary Lexicon of Affordable Housing and UrbanDevelopment inMexico
            -

BANSEFI. This federal institution was created in 2001 in order to promote householdsavings, help popular finance institutions adjust and prosper
under the new Law for Popular Savings and Credit that phases in requirements between 2001 and 2004, and coordinate govemment support to
financial institutions that focus on serving lowhnoderate-income households ("popular financial institutions").

CONAFOVI. Formed in 2001. this federal institution- a dependencyof SEDESOLthat also reports to the President- develops housing policy and
coordinates nationalhousing institutions,particularly the federalhousinginstitutions (SHF and FONHAPO), but also INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE.

CONAVI. Created under the same law as that of CONAFOVI, this organizationserves as a forum for public and private-sectorinput into housing
policy andprograms.and is managedby andreports to CONAFOVI.

CORETT. A dependency of SEDESOL, this organizationhas leadresponsibility for regularizing informally-urbanized ejidos, and has operated on a
massive scale. The process involves purchase of ejido land by the federal government (expropriation), regularizing title. and sale to the existing
occupants.

Ejidoland. Createdby Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution,this form of communal property (often termed "social land") was intendedto protect
ruralfarming communitiesandis regulatedby acomplexsetoffederal lawsandinstitutions. With urbanization,two-thirds of the landonthe fringeof
Mexico's cities now consists of ejidosandconstitutesthe mainsourceof developableparcelsfor new housing.

FONHAFW. Historically, this institution has served as the federal govemment's main support to low-income housing. Poor repaymenton below
market-rate loans madeby FONHAPO to state and local housinginstitutesthat on-lentthese funds to low-income householdsledto this organization's
near bankruptcy, from which it has now recovered. A presidentialdecree has given the organization- along with FONAEVI - the mandate to
develop a unifiedhousingsubsidysystem. Currently, FONHAPOs mainprogramis Tu Casa.

FONAEVI. A division of FONHAPO, this entity will receive, account for, and disburse funds under the unified housing subsidy system. and
currently performsthis function for Tu Casa.

FOVI. FOVI had the mandate to develop market-rate mortgage finance as a second-tier institution until the creation of SHF in 2002, which has
assumed this role. FOVI continuesas a trust within SHF with a number of specific functions mainly relatedto covering liabilities created during its
former lending operation.

FOVISSSTE. This institution gets funding from a compulsorycontribution of 5% of the salary of federal public-sectorworkers. It then uses these
resources to extend mortgage finance for housingat below-marketinterest rates graduated to favor lower-income households. FOVISSSTEaccounts
for around 14%of all mortgagefinance. Inaddition to home lending, FOVISSSTEforms part of the pension fund for its contributing workers,

INFONAVIT. Governed by representativesof formally-employedworkers, employers, and government, this institutiongets funding from agoverned
compulsory contribution of 5% of the salary of private-sector workers and applies these monies to extend mortgage finance for housing at below.
market interest rates graduated to favor lower-income households. INFONAVIT accounts for around 60% of all mortgage finance. In addition tc
homelending, INFONAVIT forms part of the pensionsystem for its contributing workers.

Low-incomehousehold. A householdearning 3 minimumwages (currently US$327 per month) andbelow

Minimum Wage. A measure used for social programs including housingprograms. Currently, one minimum wage is approximatelyUS$ 109 pel
month.

Moderate-incomehousehold. A householdearningabove 3 minimumwages to 6 minimumwages (currently US$ 327 to US$655 permonth).

Prosavi. A subsidy program started by FOVI and now operated by SHF that provides an upfront grant (currently, about US$5,000). Households
earning 4 to 6 minimum wagesjoin this grant with a mortgageloan (currently from SOFOLES that receive their funding from SHF and that channe
the Prosavi grant to specific projects) and a downpayment in order to purchase an expandable unit (around 40 m2; price: US$ 13,900) built b)
developers.

SEDESOL. The SocialDevelopmentMinistryholdsoverallresponsibility for government action inurbandevelopment.

SHF. Createdin 2002 as the successor to FOVI, the FederalMortgageSociety enjoysbacking of the faith and credit of federal govemment for 1:
years in order to lead the development of primary and secondary market-rate home lending. SHF operates as a second tier-finance institutiontha
providesliquidity and guaranteesto first-tier lenders (currently, mainly the SOFOLES). SHF accounts for around 11%of total mortgagefinance.

SOFOLESHipotecarias. Followingthe withdrawal of banks in 1995,thesespecialized lenders havebecome Mexico's mainsourceof privatehome
lending. These institutionscan makeloansand raisedebt oncapitalmarkets, but cannotaccept deposits from the public.

Tu Casa (formerly "Vivah). A subsidyprogramoperatedby FONHAPOthat deliversa federalgrant(currently about US$3,000) that stateandloca
governmentsmust match- typically with aservicedlot. The local government contracts the construction of a basic unit (up to 30 m2) that household:
earning2.5 minimum wagesandbelow purchaseby making adownpayment and, sometimes, their self-help labor inthe construction.




                                                                      Page 4

14.      The bulk of Mexico's housing subsidies come in the form of below-market interest rates - off-
budget subsidies mainly provided by INFONAVIT. In 2000, interest rate subsidies from INFONAVIT
amounted to an estimated US$ 2.2 billion6 INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE granted the highest subsidies
on a per credit basis, near US$9,000 per borrower. Although all formally-employed households pay into
these pension funds in principle, the interest-rate subsidies inthese housing loans have gone mainly to the
moderate-income households that can afford the mortgage payments necessary to purchase a finished,
commercially-built unit. As low-income householdscannot afford the finished housingfinanced by these
subsidized mortgages, INFONAVIT has servedthese families far less than higher-income households.

15.      Housing credit and household savings. Despite some advances in recent years, the credit
finance system remains weak relativeto other countries at a similar level of socio-economic development.
Outstanding mortgage loans represented5.2% of GDP in 2000, compared to over 10% in Colombia and
Chile, and 35% to 40% on average for OECD countries. Below-market rate loans for the middle class via
the provident funds for federal and private formal-sector employees (FOVISSSTE and INFONAVIT,
respectively) still account for about 75% of all mortgages. The funding method of INFONAVIT and
FOVISSSTE - 5% of formal-sector payroll - has provided the cash flow for considerable housing
production, even duringtimes of economic stagnation or/and instability. However, the heavy subvention
embedded in these government loans has crowded out the private sector, hindered the mobilization of
private savings, reduced liquidity in the private housing market, and provided few housing options for
low-income households.

16.      Mexico's home-credit finance has been characterized by a narrow range of products and, while
expanding, has yet to reach a large portion of the potential market. The mortgage-finance industry
focuses on lending for the purchase of new developer-built units affordable to a small share of moderate-
income people accompanied by a substantial subsidy and to the middle class and above at market rates.
These mortgage institutions provide virtually no credit for the lower-cost housing solutions suited to the
low/moderate-income majority, including home improvement, expansion, a serviced site, and purchase of
low-cost existing unit. Similarly, savings for housing is quite low. Although those who save do so
mainly for housing, 70% of Mexican families lack any type of relation with a formal-sector financial
institution, including a savings account. As a result of low savings, the family contribution necessary to
leverage credit and subsidies is small or missing.

17.      Urban real property registries and rights.              The lack of agreement on basic legal and
administrative principles, operational inefficiency, and the antiquated and insecure information systems of
the great bulk of Mexico's 32 state property rights registries has helped make real private property
ownership difficult and expensive. Widespread insecurity of tenure and informal ownership has followed
as low/moderate-income households opt out of this costly, cumbersome system.

18.      National urban policy, slum upgrading and institutional strengthening. Until recently, slum
upgrading has occurred - ifat all - in piecemeal fashion, without planning, neighborhood participation,
sequencing of investments, or integration of physical and social improvements. The fragmentation of
these functions within different areas of SEDESOL - the government ministry in charge of urban
development - also impeded an integratedapproach.

19.      Low and moderate income land development. The supply of urban land in Mexico represents a
major problem for low/moderate-income households. According to the National Urban Development
Program 2001-2006, an estimated 32,000 hectares of land are currently available for urban use -

  The estimate of total subsidies is based on the net present value o f the implicit interest rate subsidy for the life of
all INFONAVIT loans originated in 2000. The implicit interest rate subsidy was estimated as the difference
between the rate offered on the mortgage and the conservative estimate of 7.1% real interest rate on government
funds.



                                                      Page 5

sufficient to meet only two years of demand. Myriad, complex and costly building and subdivision
regulations have contributed to making low and moderate-income land development an uneconomic
venture for the private sector. The bulk of residential land development in urban areas occurs informally,
at costs far higher than that of formal-sector development.

20.      The difficulties of developing ejido land have exacerbated this problem. About two-thirds of the
land on the periphery of medium and large towns consists of ejidos, while high-end private-sector
developers control most of the remainder. This form of communal landownership dating from the
Mexican Revolution has had a complicated legal regimen that contributes to making private freehold
ownership, assembly of parcels of significant size, and rational land development difficult and expensive.
Since 1992, ejido lands can be privatized, but the process is cumbersomeand centralized under the federal
government. Municipalities must then get the explicit authorization of the federal authorities - which is
often slow in coming - to intervene, raising the cost of subsequent regularization. Many of Mexico's
cities show discontinuous spatial patterns as formal development leap-frogs over ejido lands in search of
lower-cost parcels far from cities and employment centers, creating much higher costs for infrastructure
provision and congestion (extra traffic, air pollution).

21.      These problems have resulted in government provision of virtually all the parcels used in social
housing projects, massive government purchase of informally-urbanized ejido land in order to
subsequently regularize and transfer title of these lots to their de-facto occupants, and the accumulation of
land reserves by government - often, a problematic process in other countries - for these two other
purposes (social housingprojects and ejido regularization).

22.     Disaster prevention and management. Vulnerable to earthquakes, hurricanes, and other natural
disasters, Mexico has, until recently, assisted the victims post-event. In contrast, taking measures to
prevent the damage from disasters can avoid immense suffering and cost. Inresponse to the devastation
caused by the earthquake of 1985, Mexico began to set aside reserves for emergency reaction and
reconstruction after natural disasters. Recently, however, SEDESOL has focused on mitigating the
vulnerability of unplanned poor communities.          The first step involves assessment based on GIS
information.    This assessment leads to mapping of risk hazards and to the development of mitigation
measures and a community emergency plan. SEDESOL intends to take this process a step further by
completing risk maps for 60 cities.


                111.    MEXICO'S    HOUSING URBANREFORMAGENDA2001-2006
                                               AND

                                    IMPLICATIONS FOR THE PROGRAM

23.      The Fox administration has respondedineach of these areas:

A.       National Housing Policy and InstitutionalFramework

24.      Strategy and Institutions. The recently formulated National Housing Policy for 2001-2006 state
the importance of increasing access of the poor to shelter. Inline with the promises of President Fox -
who gives high priority to housing as a driver of economic growth and social development - the
Government has committedto doubling formal housingproductionby 2006 (to 750,000 housing solutions
per year) through a decentralized and market-based approach. The pillars underlying this
Administration's housing strategy include: (i)targeting lowlmoderate-income households; (ii) unified
                                                                                                   a
system of housing subsidies to be administered by a single agency complemented by credit and savings;
(iii)expanding housing finance by puttingin place the methods and institutions to develop primary and
secondary markets, and by working with financial institutions experienced in serving low/moderate-



                                                  Page 6

income groups to develop products for financing low-cost housing solutions (improvement, expansion,
purchase of existing housing); and (iv) strengthening property rights.

25.       Institutionally, the Fox administration has taken bold steps to achieve these national priorities.
By harmonizing and defining the roles of federal housing agencies. CONAFOV17- a new institution -
now coordinates other federal housing agencies (SHF, FONHAPO, and -to some extent - the off-budget
autonomous national institutions, INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE) and defines policy for the sector.
CONAVI - also new - serves as a consultative forum of public and private stakeholders for CONAFOVI.
GoM has created a new housing finance institution - SHF - to take the lead in developing market-rate
primary and secondary mortgage markets. FONAEVI-a new institutionthat works in coordination with
CONAFOVIand FONHAPO - receives, accountsfor, and disburses housing subsidy funds.

26.       Decentralized Execution. CONAFOVI has entered into coordination agreements (CODEVISU)
with state governments that establish federal housing funding requirements and amounts, and policy
goals. These agreements joined with the strengthening of state housing institutes will contribute to
effectively decentralizing housing programs. FONHAPO will assist municipal governments in assessing
their needs, inventorying their resources, and developing a request for selected federal support programs
best suited to local conditions. Eventually, this system could evolve into a housing block-grant program
that flexibly allows a range of program options and requires a local match - an approach with wide
currency in large federal countries with widely varying regional conditions (e.g. the U.S.).

27.       While many aspects of decentralization and local capacity building extend beyond the scope of
this initiative, the HUSALprogram supports government in the following measures: (a) FONHAPO will
develop models for the administration and programs of state and local housing institutes; and b)
CONAFOVI, SHF and SEDESOL will enhance systems for data-collection and analysis of
housing/housing finance and urban planning, to inform local decision-makers (see paragraph 46 for local
capacity buildingefforts in support of urban policy).

B.        HousingSubsidies

28,       New Subsidy Proposal. The GOM has committed to standardize federal housing subsidies across
its previously-fragmented, uncoordinated programs by:                        (a) conveying comparable amounts for
comparable uses; and (b) placing all on-budget federal housing subsidies under the control of one
operating fund, FONAEVI (a division of FONHAPO). The following basic principles will help ensure
the consistency of this systemand lay the basis for expansion to more significant scale:

     a)            Match objectives and instruments. A first step in the creation of a housing subsidy
           system consists of defining and balancing objectives. The implicit objectives of the housing
           subsidy structure in Mexico consist o f (i)            helping low-income households acquire adequate
           shelter (e.g. Tu Casa); and (ii)     teasing private housing development and lending down-market to
           serve moderate-income households that mainly require this extra purchasing power to afford a
          basic unit, and to develop financial and real estate markets (e.g. Prosavi). However, these two
           objectives require explicit definition and clear balancingin a unified subsidy system.




  CONAFOVI has formulated a five-year housingpolicy/strategyfor the country and has: (i) assessedhousingrequirements for
different income groups; (ii) established a decentralized and participatory institutional architecturefor the housing sector; (iii)
formulated a general strategy for the four critical housing supply sectors - land, regulations/taxation,productiodinfrastructure
and finance; (iv) prepared proposals for a unified housing subsidy system, and (v) started a well-orchestrated agenda of
committee/commissionmeetingsat the federal and state levels.



                                                          Page 7

     b)             Eficiency. The efficiency of housing subsidy programs depends most on three factors:
         (i) ofsubvention;(b)per-unitamountandchoiceofhousingsolution;and(iii) versus
             type                                                                                       benefit
         cost.

         Direct demand subsidies ("DDS") have proved the most efficient type of homeownership
         subvention for moderate and middle-income households in Latin America. Essentially, DDS are
         portable vouchers that bridge the gap between the amount households can afford (by joining an
         affordable mortgage, a downpayment, and the subsidy) and a housing solution. This form of
         subvention most effectively stimulates competition among supply agents (developers and
         financial    institutions) and furthers development of the financial sector.                 Securitization of
         accompanying market-rate home credit becomes feasible with DDS, whereas it is generally
         unviable when subvention takes the form of below-market interest rate loans. Once subsidy
         programs reach a significant size and continuity, they also develop important economies of scale
         necessary for systemic improvement of housing conditions as supply agents increase their
         knowledge of and ability to use these programs. However, developers, financial institutions, and
         other formal-sector institutions (e.g. secondary mortgage markets, insurers, property registries
         etc.) often find serving low-income groups uneconomic if they have other options even if these
         families have direct demand subsidies.

         Hence, countries with successful low-income subsidy programs have also facilitated supply
         through policy changes and through programs.* These supply bottlenecks - particularly the lack
         of land and credit for low-income households - require direct action (e.g. assistance in
         development of housing microfinance and low-income housing credit, expanding independent
         mortgage insurance, reducing landdevelopment standardsand streamlining the process, etc.)

         Provision of the lowest per-unit subvention feasible for the least costly type of housing solution
         appropriate to the family constitutes a second important aspect of efficiency. Third, calculating
         the costs and benefits of the subsidy types that compose a system provides critical information for
         the creation of an overall strategy, a key measure of efficiency, and the fiscal justification for
         expansion of a subsidy system.

         Mexico has partly met these efficiency criteria, but has considerable distance to go. Prosavi has
         operated on a small scale as a direct demand subsidy program for moderate income households -
         those earning up to 5 minimum wages (MW). Also on a minute scale relative to Mexico's size,
         V i v a m u Casa has provided both a grant and assistance to supply in order to serve low-income
         groups -those earning up to 3 minimumsalaries.

         The experience of these programs since their inception in 1998-99 provides part of the basis for
         ramping up to more significant levels of fundingand impact. However, neither of these programs
         has received a comprehensive evaluation nor incorporated important features that make similar
         programs work well in other countries. The available evidence, however, suggests two lines of
         reform.

         First, neither Prosavi or Tu Casa effectively address the two most critical supply barriers facing
         most low/moderate-income families in Mexico:                     (i)foremost in importance, access to an
         appropriately located serviced &and;              (ii)second, accessto small loansto finance low-cost
         housing solutions (improvement, expansion, purchase of a serviced site, etc.) In addition to
          mandating that local governments provide land to the project as the required match for the federal
         subsidy - the current approach of Tu Casa - further efforts are need to improve the function of

*  ~




    Here, direct federal govemment development and finance has generally worked poorly, whereas use of NGOs and
municipalities to organize poor householdsand get access to a parcel has worked better (Costa Rica).



                                                         Page 8

     land markets. The Mexican Government has taken a first step in addressing this problem under
     Habitat throughsupport of land reserves for the poor.

     Second, the present subsidy level of both Tu Casa (including both federal and local subvention)
     and Prosavi is quite high - about US$ 6,000 and US$ 5,000 respectively. Such high per-unit
     subsidies greatly limit the reach of the program. At the funding level of US$ 300 million per
     annum, Tu Casa and Prosavi served only about 33,700 households in 2002. Incomparison, low-
     income household formation (a proxy for need) runs at about 300,000 families per annum and
     moderate-income household formation (a group also frequently unable to access minimally
     adequate market-rate housing unassisted) at an additional 245,000 per year. As more sustainable
     modes of housing finance (market-rate credit and household savings) expand, per-unit subsidy
     amounts should be lowered and favor less costly solutions, such as serviced sites and home
     improvement, as recommended by Mexico's official national housing strategy. In addition, it
     underlines the importance of reforming these subsidy programs and quantifying their benefits
     (relative to their cost) in order to justify increasing the level of on-budget housing subsidies
     towards internationalnorms.

     In summary, both Prosaviand Tu Casa could operate with a lower level of subsidy per unit, and
     could focus more on lower-costs housing solutions for lower-income households than currently.

   c)       Equity. An equitable housing subsidy system typically has the following characteristics:
     (i)progressivity or neutrality in targeting of subsidies to income groups; (ii)delivering
     comparable subsidy amounts to households in comparable situations; and (iii)regional
     adjustments for price/cost/income levels and local fiscal capacity.

     "Progressivity" means targeting the subsidy system to lower-income families by either delivering
     more subvention per low-income family or by assigning more total resources to low-income
     groups. The first alternative - delivering a greater subsidy amount per family to low-income
     households - has proved difficult and, sometimes, impossible for many reasons. However, at a
     minimum, an equitable subsidy system assigns more resources to low-income groups, thus
     meeting the second criterion for progressivity. Taken as a whole, however, Mexico's current
     housing subsidy system is heavily regressive as INFONAVIT - the main source of subsidies -
     goes largely to moderate and middle-income families that are formally employed.

     Mexico has made progress in harmonizing the levels of subsidies across its on-budget programs
     (Prosavi and Vivah). These programs now deliver roughly comparable levels of subsidy per
     family taking into account all sources of subvention. However, Mexico requires development of
     regional housing cosdprice indices in order to adjust subsidy levels as well as other parametersto
     reflect local costlprice variations and fiscal capacity - a task recently begun by SHF and
     CONAFOVI.

   d)         Overcoming market and policy failures.       In addition to neglecting credit and land
     bottlenecks, a number of other market and policy failures hinder the creation of a national subsidy
     program. Heavily subsidized lending by local governments as well as FONHAPO undermines
     development of credit markets for low/moderate-income households. Instead, FONHAPO and
     local housing institutes could usefully concentrate on the management of an upfront grant
     program, rather than a subsidized credit system.

29.  GoM i s planningthe followingreforms to deal with these issues:

   4          FONHAPO and States will withdraw from the credit market. Government (SHF) will
     focus on measures to foster the capacity of the Cajas de Ahorro y PrCstamo, credit unions, and



                                             Page9

        other financial institutions to extend housing credit to low/moderate-income families for a range
        of low-cost housing solutions.

                In tandem, Government (BANSEFI) will develop and expand housing savings programs
        with the goal of increasing the household contribution that complements the housing subsidy
        provided by various programs (Tu Casa, Prosavi, INFONAVIT).

                INFONAVIT will focus its subsidies increasingly on low-income households. GoM will
        eliminatejoining subsidy amounts from different programs - such as INFONAVIT and Tu Casa -
        to reach totals above those mandated for these programs separately ("double dipping"), or adjust
        the amounts for households receiving different sources of subvention to correct for double
        dipping.

                Government will conduct a comprehensive and coordinated evaluation of all national
        subsidy programs, starting with Prosavi and Tu Casa, but also including those of INFONAVIT
        and FOVISSSTE. This evaluation will include a quantitativeanalysis of the costs and benefits of
        these programs, and the fiscal, social, and economic implications of the expansion of Prosavi and
        TuCasaonce reformed.

                Both Prosavi and Tu Casa will be changed to deliver a smaller per-unit subsidy for lower-
        cost housing solutions for lower-income households, as follows:

        For Prosavi: (i)the federal government subsidy per unit will decrease from its current level of
        around $5,000 per unit; (ii) local or state government will be asked to contribute a modest amount
        in cash or in-kind (e.g. land) to these projects; and (iii)the total amount of subsidy will be
        progressive -thatis,  lower-income households will receive more than higher-income families.

        For Tu Casa: (i)  the eligible solution will change from the purchase of a complete finished unit to
        a serviced lot joined with a small loan to assist the construction of a basic unit; (ii)the subsidy
        amount of both the federal and state/local governments (currently, about US $3,000 each) will
        decrease; (iii)local government will facilitate land assembly for developers, NGOs, employers,
        and others to develop these projects and sell them to families.

        A series of studies will further define the parameters of the new Prosaviand Tu Casa, the project
        cycle of these new interventions, and the transition from the current programs to the new ones.

                Government will conduct quantitative studies of the present value of subsidies embedded
        inINFONAVITfinancing.

                Capacity building for local governments aimed at dealing with supply constraints in
        urban land and property rights will help deal with these structural issues unaddressedby housing
        subsidies.

        Housing Credit and HouseholdSavings

        The Government views reform of the housing finance system as critical to meeting its goals in
both the housingand urban sectors. GoM's program builds on important structural reforms initiated under
FOVI and continuing with SHF - the successor of FOVI - and includes: (i)        leveraging market-oriented
private resources, mainly through guarantees of private-sector debt on capital markets and elsewhere,
rather than government borrowing directly to provide liquidity; and (ii)     improving the efficiency and
increasing the capacity of the existing home lending institutions (banks, SOFOLES, SHF, and the



                                                 Page 10

provident fundshousing lenders INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE).                         Future actions will include the
measuresdescribed inthe rest of this section.

31,       Foreclosure and Transparency. All but three states have already modernized their legislation
through civil code proceedings on mortgage liens and foreclosure.                   In some instances, however,
foreclosure remains ineffective due to judicial and political resistance. Congress has recently approved a
financial transparency law to protect and better inform mortgage borrowers. The next step is to build
confidence of lenders and investors in the enforceability of mortgage contracts. The GoM is moving
forward on furtherjudiciary reforms at the national level, including recent passage of a new guarantee law
that allows expedited foreclosure through a trust collateral instrument.

32.      Development of secondary mortgage markets, SHF, and SOFOLES.                                The growth and
diversification of Mexican institutional investors provide ample opportunity for secondary market
development.' Since its creation in 2001, SHF has successfully advanced the development of primary
and secondary Mexican mortgage markets. Its contributions include: (i)                  steady access to long-term
priced funding; (ii)revised actuarially-priced first-loss credit insurance products; (iii)               improved risk
management and pricing(refinancing and guarantees); (iv) consistent rating policy applied to SOFOLES;
(v) stimulating access to private bond markets and funding diversification; and (vi) an acceleration in
Prosavi execution. Additional key actions to be tackled in the near future with related milestones under
the HUSAL program include the following: (i)expand SHF mortgage-related products (refinancing,
guarantees) both in UDIs and pesos; (ii)     design and expand the use of products for the credit finance of
low-cost housing solutions such as home improvement, serviced sites, and purchase of existing housing;
and (iii)develop rules (property appraisal and disclosure of lending costs) as required by the new
financial transparency law.

33.       Commercial banks, which had been the main market-rate home lenders, largely withdrew from
the mortgage market after large losses from the 1994-95 peso crisis. Since then, 16 SOFOLES have
become the main market-rate mortgage lenders and main clients of SHF. SOFOLES currently get 90% of
their funding from SHF. The lead SOFOLES, however, have begun to issue debt on domestic and
international markets as planned under the SHF's broader mandate. The H U S K program will support
SHF's development of and private-sector participation in a mortgage-risk databaseessential for secondary
markets and mortgage insurance.

34.       Subsidies and the Fideicomiso Fondo Nacional de Habitmiones Populares (FONHAPO).
FONHAPOhas actedas Government's lead institution infundinglow-income housing. Over the last five
years, the organization has recovered from its quasi-bankruptcy resulting from the subvention and high
arrears of on-lending to state housing institutes by recouping debt. Continued below-market rate lending
to state institutes would not only jeopardize FONHAPO's hard-won financial solvency, but also
undermine the Government's strategy to promote market-rate lending." Hence, this second-tier lending-
which i s already at a low level'' - will phase out during the program and be replaced by more financially
sustainable approaches to supporting low income housing. Specifically, the fundingof social housing by
FONHAPO from newly-budgeted monies will occur inthe form of grants and not loans.

35.       Rather than channel home credit - a function of SHF - FONHAPO will unify the federal
govemment's housing subsidy programs for low-income households. In this regard, FONHAPO will
work with SHF to design and monitor Prosavi grants.


  Morethan US$90 billion betweenmutualfunds, providentfunds, pensionfunds, andinsurancecompanies.
''FONHAPOlendspayments
lo                 at minimumwage (MW) plus4% to 6% to state housinginstitutesthat providestate guarantees.
  Fundedonly by           on FONHAPO's loan portfolio, which are small and shrinking fast in real value. In addition, most
of the reflow from FONHAPO's loan portfolio goes to support this organization's administrative cost, leaving little for these
below-marketrate loans.



                                                    Page 11

36.       In lieu of FONAHPO's second-tier lending to states, SHF will guarantee micro and mortgage
housing credits to low and moderate-income loans originated by private financial institutions for both
purchase and renovation of existing homes.                    Sustainable low-income housing finance requires
strengthening of the regulations and standards for this business, access to a range of new SHF products,
and institutional capacity building.

37.       Redefining the role of the Znstituto del Fondo Nacional de la Viviendapara 10s Trabajadores.
(INFONAVIT) has initiated an impressive array of reforms under the current government. In 2003,
INFONAVIT made a record of 291,000 loans. This high production has relied on: i)large inflows of
compulsory wage contributions of formal sector workers - many of whom will not receive a loan; ii)low
servicing costs due to direct payroll deductions; and iii)less stringent capital and provisioning rules than
for primary credit institutions. Improved management practices on the credit side have come from more
transparent credit allocation, a better system for originating and managing loans; reformed internal
organization, an active and out-sourced debt recovery program, improved management of credit risk12and
operation risks,13 new minimumdown-payment requirements, a simplified scoring system, extraordinary
loan-loss provisions (US$ 2 billion in 2002) made for non-performing loans, and piloting the use of
INFONAVIT savings to leverage private credits for higher-income members (article 43 bis). On the
savings side, INFONAVIT expects to pay an annual return of the minimumwage ("MW') 2.5% on its            +
savings accounts, exceeding its minimum requirement and paying closer to private pension fund
benchmarks (net of management fees). After many years of poor performance, this trend reflects the
increasing importance of INFONAVIT's role as a mandatory saving institution, in addition to its
traditional home lender role.              FOVISSTE - a providentiary institution that operates similarly to
INFONAVIT but for federal public-sector employees - has also made important operational
impr0~ements.l~

38.       Despite this progress in improving its operation, INFONAVIT's conflicting roles continue tc
undermine the development of housingcredit markets. INFONAVIT's roles include functioning as: a) an
efficient housing lender that provides loans to an ever higher proportion of contributing members,15
achieving a better social match between the "taxed" contributors and borrowers, and leveraging more
market-oriented credits with private lenders; b) a social housing agency contributing to the provision and
targeting of subsidies; and c) a profitable pension fund increasing pension returns for retiring members
and improving liquidity by permitting early withdrawals for housing investment purposes. These three
roles create multiple contradictions. Most fundamental, the extension of subsidized housing loans reduces
the returns available to pay contributors' pensions.

39.       Over the mediumterm, the GoM aims to foster a transition to private market-rate housing finance
and rationalize INFONAVIT's conflicting roles. However, the Mexican housingfinance system's current
dependency on INFONAVIT (which provides two-thirds of all mortgages) and the institution's complex
governance structure complicate the transition. Hence, rationalization of INFONAVIT's role requires
time and a clear plan in order to build broad support among stakeholders, avoid potentially devastating
disruption of mortgage lending, and facilitate increased private lending. The challenges and path to
reform of FOVISSSTE - an organization that operates similarly to INFONAVIT but for public-sector




  Mostly when membersbecome unemployed,or changejobs, notablyto the informal sector where there is no automatic payroll
deduction.
l3Mostly due to improper payroll deduction by the employer.
I4FOVISSSTEhas contracted SOFOLES as professionaloriginators of its loans. Better management and credit recovery have
resulted in accumulated liquidity and increased lending in 2002-2003. Non-performing loans are relatively low, at 3%. The
proportionof members (public-sectoremployees) expectedto receive a subsidized housingcredit is expectedto rise from 26% to
40% by 2006.
l5 With a current low "cover" ratio still less than 20%.



                                                         Page 12

employees but at much smaller scale - parallel those of the much larger institution and - hence - will be
subsumed under those of INFONAVIT inthe program and the remainder of this document.

40.      Savingsproducts and BANSEFZ. In Mexico, over 60% of households that save in informal and
formal-sector institutions dedicate these accumulated funds to housing, mainly to improvement of their
existing home. Hence, housing savings product are crucial for low-income households, particularly non-
wage earners without bank accounts, in order to help them build equity, encourage financial discipline,
achieve a "bankable" credit score, make use of formal financial institutions (go from "unbanked" to
"banked"), and facilitate eligibility for housing subsidies. Larger savings can also reduce the cost of the
subsidy program, which tries to compensate for miniscule downpayments (i.e. savings) for purchasing a
house by increasing the level of subvention. These higher downpayments also lower the credit risk of
home lendingby reducing loan-to-value ratios.

41.      BANSEFIwas createdinApril 2001 inorder to promote household savings, help popular finance
institutions adjust and prosper under the new Law for Popular Savings and Credit that phases in
requirements between 2001 and 2004, and coordinate government support to financial institutions that
focus on serving lowlmoderate-income households ("popular financial institutions").           In the last three
years, the number of savers in BANSEFI's 560 branches has grown from 800,000 to 1.7 million, and is
currently increasing by about 10,000 clients per month. BANSEFI has created a technical platform to
connect its branches with those of several other popular finance institutions - the "people's network."
BANSEFI has begun to partner separately with INFONAVR and FONHAPO to help households
applying to these institutions for support by opening savings accounts that help them meet eligibility
criteria. SHF and BANSEFI are poised to launch a similar savings initiative shortly. The HUSAL
programhas milestones for developing these savings links to credit and subsidies.

D.       UrbanRealPropertyRegistriesand Rights

42.      About 40% of those who say they own their property, in fact, lack full legal title. This problem
arises not only from the complications of the ejido system (see paragraph 20), but also from the
cumbersome and costly procedures of the 32 state real property registries and an ineffective legal
framework. With few exceptions, these state real property registries depend on manual data entry in
paper books with entries arrangedchronologically (rather than the modern standard of electronic files for
each property), involve 30 to 100 separate steps to register relatively simple transactions (a mortgage lien,
for example), remain unlinked to the municipal cadastre (the other main source of land information), and
lack transparency.

43.      Well aware of the importance of real (and housing) property rights for many markets and for
social stability (including the development of housing finance, urban real estate taxation, extension and
charging of public utilities tariffs, safeguarding of family relations, and general well-being of housing
dwellers), the GoM has initiated a project to strengthen the real property registries in two states through
CONAFOVI. CONAFOVI's assistance matches each state's counterpart resources in order to:                      (i)
analyze and reform the institutional and legal framework for property registrylrights; (ii)     re-engineer the
processes and work flow of the property registry in order to cut time, improve efficiency and accuracy,
andreduce costs; (iii) from manual entry of transactions inchronological order to electronic folios of
                        shift
properties; (iv) digitize historical data as necessary inorder to incorporate it into the electronic system; (v)
permit remote consultation of the property registry; and (vi) link the state property registry to the
municipal cadastre in order to unify land information. The HUSAL sets milestones for extending this
project from the original two states to other states and for agreement on a legal framework.




                                                  Page 13

E.      National UrbanPolicy, Slum Upgradingand Institutional Strengthening

45.     Strategy and Institutions. The recently formulated National Urban Development Plan for 2001-
2006 focuses on achieving sustainable and spatially-balanced urban development. The pillars of the
Government's urban strategy include: (i)upgrading low-income communities through joining physical
and social investments guided by planning and community participation; (ii)     increasing land availability
for the poor; and (iii)moving from mitigating the costs of disasters to prevention. To support the
achievement of these goals, SEDESOL hasjoined control over the activities necessary for integrated slum
upgrading - including both physical and social investments - in one division. In recognition of the
growing importance of urban poverty, the Government has expanded Oportunidades- its major program
of social support to the poor -from a rural focus to include urban areas.

46.     Decentralized Execution. The success of the GoM urban policy also largely depends on
implementation capacity at the local level, particularly in land development and planning, community
development, and property rights where local govemments have the main power and responsibility. The
lack of local planning agencies and financial capacity represents an important bottleneck to the
implementation of the GoM program. Over the last two decades, Mexican municipalities have gained
increased political, administrative and financial autonomy, but many still lack the technical capacity and
funds to perform their new roles.        For example, while the reform of constitutional article 115
decentralized responsibility for construction and operation of infrastructure and urban services to states
and municipalities, federal transfers through Ramo 33 still fund the bulk of local infrastructure
investment. Proposals for fiscal reform and the government's on-going decentralization programpromise
to further strengthen local and state governments. As previously mentioned, while many aspects of
decentralization extend beyondthe scope of this program, the HUSAL will provide support SEDESOL to
launch a comprehensive program to build capacity of municipal and state governments on land
management, local economic development, and community-based planning.

47.     Slum Upgrading and the Habitat Program. Unable to access formal housing or land, about
100,000 poor families each year settle in marginal areas with overwhelming infrastructure deficits and
without urban planning. The layout of many Mexican barrios appears orderly in comparison to others in
the region (e.g. those of Venezuela or Brazil). However, location in hazardous or sensitive areas, scarcity
of public facilities and goods, distance from infrastructure and services and the absence of mechanisms
for community input frequently damage these neighborhoods and raise the cost of regularizing them to
well above that of new formal-sector development. The cost to organize and provide public goods ex post
exceedsthe capacity of households as well as communities and usually requires public support.

48.     The GoM (SEDESOL) has developed an integrated program called Habitat to address precarious
poor neighborhoods.       Habitat provides support for neighborhood upgrading, access to land, and
prevention of natural disasters and includes initiatives to support community facilities, day-care centers
for working mothers, and local development agencies that bring together community, private sector, and
local government. Habitat channels federal funds (under Ramo 20) as matching grants to municipalities
for programs that benefit families earning up to 3 MW.

49.     The urban upgrading subprogram of Habitat includes: (i)     preparatory studies such as municipal
urban-poverty diagnostics and action plans, comprehensive barrio upgrading plans, and detailed
engineering for infrastructure projects; as well as (ii)investments in urbanization including water,
sewerage, storm drainage, paved access roads, electricity and street lighting, rehabilitation or construction
of community facilities, and improved solid waste management. The program has started in 60 medium
and large cities, and invested around US$ 90 million in 2003. HUSAL Iincludes as prior actions the
integration of upgrading activities under Habitat and the programs approval and fundingby Congress.

50.     HABITATincludes severaldesign innovationsto improve targeting and programimpact:


                                                Page 14

           Capacity. Habitat will create local capacity among municipal authorities, NGOs and CBOs and
           related agencies. A capacity buildingprogram run by SEDESOL in proposed collaboration with
           the World Bank Institute (WBI) will help strengthen local actors to implement the upgrading
           program.
           Poverty Targeting. SEDESOL has developed detailed geo-referenced poverty data down to the
           block level for eligible municipalities that allows for accurately allocating Ramo 20 funds.
           Neighborhoods must include at least 50% poor households, or 30% in special cases as specified
           in Habitat's regulations, with federal government support matched by local government and
           beneficiaries' contributions.
           Eligibility criteria for participating cities include the level of poverty, city rate of growth,
           potential to generate wealth (per capita GDP), level of inequality, and environmental
           sustainability (availability of water). Based on the prioritization of such criteria, appropriate
           blocks and neighborhoods are selected.
           Multiyear program of improvement. The program supports the development and execution of
           multi-year plans for neighborhood improvement, helping to overcome some of the transaction
           costs and capacity limitations of progressive investment.

           Although an important advance, the upgrading component of Habitat requires further action for
the program to-fulfill its potential. The program design stipulates important procedures essential to its
performance such as community participation, neighborhood investment plans, and an appropriate level
and sequencing of investment in each community. However, the rapid expansion of the Program in its
first year (2003) and the urgency of meeting initial investment goals (the Program disbursed the budgeted
amount of approximately US$ 90 million in 2003) have sometimes taken precedence over these other
aspects. SEDESOL i s fully committed to meeting these other milestones by the HUSAL Program's
 secondand third years of operation.

F.         Low and Moderate Income LandDevelopment

 52.       In formal housing development, public goods such as environmental quality, green and
community spaces, access, and storm drainage come at the beginning of the development process.
Middle-income families can afford to pay for these services upfront in the form of the price of the new
house and local taxes. Most low/moderate-income households, however, lack the financial ability to pay
these sums upfront, and must stage them over time to make them affordable, thus reversing the process,
 which often starts with informal settlement.

 53.       Thus, most of Mexico's low/moderate-income residentiallanddevelopment occurs illegally, often
 on ejido lands. The dominant method of land supply for the poor consists of an agile system of illegal
 subdivisions, followed by a costly and time-intensive process of expropriation and regularization by the
Government through CORETT. When unassisted by the formal-sector - as i s usually the case -the
 incremental settlement and buildingprocess has one crucial virtue: it puts low-income households on the
first rung of the ladder of homeownership. In the process, however, it generates enormous public and
private costs. From the families perspective, securing their property and building a house over many
years involves a huge investment in time and labor, during which the family must live in inadequate and
unhealthy environments.          From a public-sector perspective, informal settlement leads to a broken
 settlement pattern that often costs two to three times the amount (generally of government funds) to fix
than planned formal-sector development (generally, private funds) would have initially.16                              Hence,
replacing informal settlement with low-cost formal sector land development holds crucial importance.
Although some preliminary analysis has occurred inMexico, the costs of informal development and their

~~




  l6
   A Colombianstudy has calculated the costs of provisionof basic infrastructureto informal development at three times the cost
of that to formal-sector development. A number of studiesof landdevelopmentin Mexico has reachedasimilarconclusion, but
without quantification.



                                                        Page 15

impact on diverse participants in the process - households, landowners, local government, federal
government - have yet to be quantified and publicized. Ineffect, the costs of the dominant approach to
low/moderate-income land development in Mexico - informal urban settlement of ejido land,
regularization, and slumupgrading of many of the resultingareas - remain undocumented, as do the costs
and benefits of other options.

54.     In turn, formal-sector low/moderate-income land development represents a small fraction of the
total. Most formal-sector low/moderate-income land development occurs as part of housing projects
financed by federal agencies (INFONAVIT, FOVISSSTE, SHF, and FONHAPO) and local and state
government housing institutes. Local and state government usually provides the land at discounted rates
to the developers of these federal and locally-assisted affordable housing projects. Most states and local
governments, however, do not own substantial amounts of developable land. Hence, in order to attract
and make possible these low/moderate-income housing projects, most state and local governments
purchase land to constitute "land reserves". Here, too, however, no study has quantified the costs and
benefits of land reserves, or of the feasibility of and changes necessaryto improve profitability and spur
formal private-sector involvement. Analysis of successful experiences in Mexican states and other Latin
American countries could shed light on options for low/moderate-income land development from
deregulation to land readjustment.

55.     In summary, the next steps in land are to: (a) quantify the costs and benefits of informal vs.
formal-sector development; and (b) analyze the experience of selected Mexican states and other Latin-
American countries in low/moderate-income settlement in order to develop viable options for reform.
Based upon this analysis, GoM intends to put in place a pilot program. The HUSAL program supports
these actions.

56.     A number of factors require consideration in this analysis of costs, benefits, and options, and a
subsequent reformprogram:

             a) Rural-to-Urban Land ConversiodEjido System.           Without an agile process for talung
                 ejido land to the market, ejidatarios illegally parcel their land without attention to urban
                 plans and regulations yielding unserviced plots and leapfrog development.               The
                 PROCEDE certificate was clearly an important step forward, but it appears that the
                 subsequent processes for conversion to full legal title or the development of ejido real
                 estate companies remain cumbersome and ~omplicated.'~        Thus, the next steps for reform
                 are unclear and await definition.

             b) Regulations and standards.          SEDESOL has carried out studies to identify the
                 incongruities and omissions in urban and standards and problems in compliance. An
                 analysis of the costs and benefits of informal vs. formal-sector development, and of
                 viable options for low/moderate-income development represent the missingcomplements
                 to develop a program.

             c) Govemment role in low/moderate-income land supply.          Inthe face of the pressingneed
                 for increased land supply, GoM continues to encourage and fund state and local
                 governments to amass land reserves. In certain instances, this solution provides a short-
                 term response but, as experiences in other countries have shown, has some important
                 drawbacks: (i) increases in land prices; (ii)slowness of the transactions under the reserve
                 process; iii)inefficiency of government in identifying the most desirable land offerings;
                 iv) tendency of the agencies handling land reserves to become large and inefficient; and
                 v) a large percentageof the land reserves used for other than social purposes. SEDESOL

"PROCEDEisaprogramtoregisterandcertifyejidoproperty.



                                                 Page 16

                 i s considering ways to minimize the shortcomings. Possible measures may include
                 restricting support for land reservesto housing agenciesthat are: (i)at the local level and
                 target a limited range of objectives; (ii) well capitalized and managed; (iii) focused on
                 functions that the private sector has difficulty performing, e.g. provision of costly trunk
                 infrastructure to suburban areas; (iv) usingthe private sector to perform other aspects of
                 development, such as the finance and construction of houses; and (v) politically
                 independent. SEDESOL will also explore alternatives to land reserves, from demand-
                 side subsidiesfor purchaseof serviced lots to landreadjustment.

57.      More systematic land data is essential in order to inform the analysis of costs, benefits, options,
and land policy - in general. In 2003 and 2004, SEDESOL will carry out surveys in several major cities
to collect land prices across formal and informal markets in order to pass this information on to local
authorities to strengthen their planning capacity. SEDESOL will also develop a system for information
and monitoring of urban land, including planning and development information (urban development
plans, cadastres, legal subdivisions, identified informal settlements, etc.), drawn directly from local
authorities and complemented with information from satellite images to register the process of
settlements.

G.       Disaster Preventionand Management

58.      The Disaster Prevention and Mitigationsubprogram of Habitat addresses the risks resulting from
unplanned urbanization invulnerable areas by providing federal funding for planning and for investments
such as retainingwalls and storm drainage. The Habitat Program also includes resourcesfor vulnerability
assessments at the neighborhood level that identify risk areas, and structural and non-structural mitigation
measures. These actions should be complemented with city-level assessments in order to provide a more
complete view of risks helpful for strategically targeting limited resources. Traditionally, Mexico has
focused on ex-post natural disaster clean-up - a relatively costly and reactive strategy - as opposed to ex-
ante mitigation. Thus, this new focus on prevention supported by the HUSAL program represents an
important step forward in SEDESOL's approach.


                                     IV.      THEPROPOSED       LOANS

A.       Objectives of the Program

59.      The Housing and UrbanDevelopment Sector Adjustment Program (comprised of four operations:
HUSAL I,HUSAL II,H U S K 111, and HUTAL) supports the Govemment's efforts over a three-year
period to improve the living conditions of the poor and strengthen access of low-income people to real
assets, notably housing and serviced land. The Govemment's program to be supported by the Bank loans
has the following objectives:

         Develop a sound nationalpolicy and institutional framework for housing and urbandevelopment;
         Design and put in place a consistent and unified housing subsidy policy that facilitates access of
         low/moderate-income families to housing and leverages household savings and private credit
         finance;
         Strengthenthe housing credit and savings systems, and move these systems downmarket;
         Strengthenurbanreal property registries and rights;
         Increasethe supply of urbanland and access by the poor and improve this market's function;
         Coordinate physicaland social investments to systematically upgrading poor neighborhoods; and
         Better prevent and manage the impacts of natural disasters.




                                                 Page 17

B.      Content of the Program

60.     The HUSAL program will support a subset of the GoM's medium-term reform agenda in the
housing and urban sectors through three programmatic sector adjustment loans and an accompanying
technical assistance loan.    Key milestones have been selected as prior actions for adjustment loan
approval. The milestones for H U S K Ithat are necessary for disbursement have been reached, as
detailed by the Policy Matrix in Annex 1. The program aims to facilitate the development and
implementation of policies, plans, and instruments, in a selective and flexible manner, in response to the
GoM's review of its program and emerging issues. As such, the next adjustment loan will take place
when the next set of key prior actions have been met, and at the same time a critical mass of reform
measures from the broader matrix have been achieved, such that there i s sufficient confidence in
substantial progress towards the development outcomes in the housing and urban sectors. Figure 1below
presents an overview of the adjustment program to be supported (see Annex 1 for the detailed policy
matrix.)

C.      Analyticalunderpinnings

61.     The program rests on a solid foundation of analysis carried out by the GoM, the Bank and other
development partners over the past three years. Recently-completed work includes two major Bank
reports: A Contribution to an Urban Strategyfor Mexico, Report no. 22525-ME, July 15,2002, and Low
Income Housing, Issues and Options, Report no. 22534-ME, September 16, 2002. The first document
examines the urban sector in Mexico and makes policy recommendations on: (i)        land use, housing and
transport; (ii)
              the backlog of infrastructure investment; and (iii) concentration of poverty in peri-urban
                                                                the
areas; and (iii)developing institutionsto manage and implement these policies. The low-income housing
study examines the access of the poor to housing (both finished and progressive housing), quantifies
housing needs interms of stocks and flows, and discussesthe inefficiencies created by the present system
of indirect and direct subsidies. The report also sets out the major building blocks of a more sustainable
low-income housing strategy. The proposed programhas also drawn on the on-going technical assistance
project to the State of Mexico for a new low-income housing policy for the periphery of Mexico City
(Cities-Alliance funded). In addition, major work has been performed on housing finance under the
ongoing FOVYSHFproject.

D.      Content of the Loans

62.     The programconsists of three Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Sector Adjustment Loans,
scheduledto disburse in mid 2004,2005, and 2006, and an accompanying Technical Assistance Loan to
support necessary reforms, scheduledto be implementedfrom 2004 to 2006.

63.     The disbursement of the first adjustment operation, HUSK 1, of US$lOO million supports the
following actions already completed by the GoM (see Annex 1for the detailedpolicy matrix):

        Macroeconomic Framework

        0    Maintenance of sound macroeconomic framework consistent with policy objectives and
             programs described in the Letter of Development Policy.

        NationalHousingPolicy and InstitutionalFramework

        0    The Government has approved and presented the National Housing Development Policy,
             strengthened transparency through presentation of annual report on policy implementation
             and provision of information on related programs to the public through the internet.




                                                Page 18

  The Government has harmonized and defined the roles of federal housing agencies:
  CONAFOVI is the overall coordinator and policy body; CONAVI serves as a consultative
  forum for public and private stakeholders; SHF takes the lead in developing market-rate
  primary and secondary mortgage markets; FONHAPO is in charge of housing subsidies; and
  FONAEVIreceives, accounts for, and disburses housing subsidy funds.

  Government has completed an environmental assessment (EA) of the housingsector.

Housing.Subsidies

  The Government has mandated a unified housing subsidy program to be administered by
  FONHAPOlFONAEVI that i s efficient, progressive, and equitable as established through
  presidentialdecree.

  CONAFOVI has set up an on-going working group that includes all main agencies involved
  in housing subsidy andor administration at the national level in order to consolidate
  objectives and programs for the unified housing subsidy program and its continuous
  refinement.

  FONHAPO has establisheda database of beneficiaries of Tu CasaNivah.

Housing Credit and Household Savings

  Congress has approved a set of reforms that strengthen the legal framework at the national
   level for mortgages (credito hipotecario), allowing adjudication of defaulted mortgage liens
   in federal courts, simplifying documentation required to prove the existence of the lien, and
   allowing for extra-judicial foreclosure of collateral trusts.

   Congress has approved a new financial transparency law relatedto mortgage loans, providing
   standardized, clear and comparative information and contracts to borrowers. SHF has issued
   rules for the licensing of property appraisers, and the calculation of costs disclosed for
   residential mortgage loans.

   SHF has designed and put in place a database for mortgage risk assessment, and the private
   sector i s contributing information on loans.

   SHF has expandedits products to include financing and guarantees bothinUDIs and pesos.

   Bansefi has launched savings programs for low- and moderate-income households linked to
   lendingby Infonavit and to Fonhapo's Tu Casa subsidy program




                                       Page 19

                     Table 2. Overview of Mexico Housing and Urban Sector Adjustment Program

Govt. actions completed                     Rest of Program                                Long-term vision
           (2003)                                (2004-06)

Presented           National    Clarify federal mechanisms for housingand     Low-income housing and          neighborhood
                                urbanpolicy implementation                    upgrading become national priorities with
DevelopmentPrograms                                                           well-defined delivery systems funded in a
                                                                              :onsistent way by government subsidies,
                                                                              private-sectorcredit, andfamily savings

Unified program of housing      Consolidate     federal  housing    subsidy   Transparent and equitable subsidies leverage
subsidies legally mandated      framework that includes Tu Casa, Prosavi,     private-sector credit and householdsavings for
and      overall    concept     andINFONAVIT                                  an appropriate mix of low-cost housing
achieves broadacceptance                                                      solutions. Reformed subsidy system expands
                                                                              to play a major role in resolving low-income
                                                                              housingproblems

Public    property   registry   Extend property registry project to other     The time and cost of registering property
pilot project launched in       states; GoM and states reachconsensus on a    rights falls substantially and reliability rises,
two states                      legal framework and national program to       enhancing the housing assets held by
                                strengthenreal property rights                low/moderate-incomehouseholds

Financing     housing    and    Develop a model for local housing institute   State andmunicipalhousinginstitutes have the
urban           management      administration and programs, and train        technical capacity to prepare, execute, and
capacity-building program       municipal staff in planning, upgrading, and   monitor programs to be jointly financed with
for states & municipalities     community participation                       the federal government

Advance       reforms      on   Improved      regulatory  framework     for   Housingfinance in Mexico is operatedmainly
housing finance including       securitization fosters expansion of private   by private sector, under supervision from
establishment    of    SHF,     housing finance;       new home lending       Central Bank and regulatory bodies. Market-
approval     on    guarantee    products expand to finance low-cost           rate lending for low-cost housing solutions
package and transparency        housingsolutions (improvement, expansion,     affordable to lowhoderate-income families
laws, and establishment of      purchaseof existing units); housingsavings    becomes widespread, accompanied by entry of
mortgagerisk database           instruments      develop,    spread,    and   new lenders into this business. Empirical data
                                increasingly leverage credit and subsidies;   on mortgageoutcomes replaces the impression
                                and the private sector uses and supports      of high risk heldby commercial banks, leading
                                mortgagerisk database                         to rapidexpansionof private-sectorlending.

The     Govemment        has    Use      of    integrated    neighborhood     On-going       govemment       funding       and
integrated its physical and     development plans as a means to               sustainable sources of finance such as
social    interventions    in   prioritize investmentsstrengthens Habitat     housing       microcredit      allow       well-
urban communities         for   program                                       synchronized investment to upgrade poor
slum upgrading (Habitat),                                                     neighborhoods
as approved and funded by
Congress

Community       level    risk   Risk mapping efforts and sensitization        Disaster mitigation capacity of cities i s
analysis, city level risk       and mitigation projects taken to scale        strengthened through risk analysis and its
mapping and sensitization                                                     incorporation into long-term planning
and mitigation projects
initiated

Base land data collected        Analytic studies lead to streamlining         Complexity and costs of land development
and preliminary studies         development standards and identifying         fall,   private-sector    starts   playing      a
completed                       effective methods for a program to            substantial role in developing land foi
                                increase     low/moderate-income      land    low/moderate-income housing, and scale 01
                                development and the role of the private       low/moderate-income        land development
                                sector                                        increases




                                                       Page 20

         Urban Real Property Registries and Rights


         0   Two state govemments have started to implement property registry modernization programs
             with support from CONAFOVI

         NationalUrbanPolicv, SlumUpwading and InstitutionalStrengthening

             The Government has approved and presented the National Urban Development and
             Territorial Planning Policy and strengthened transparency through presentation of an annual
             report on policy implementation and provision of information on related programs to the
             public through the internet.

             SEDESOL Poverty mapping has been completed and used for targeting social programs
             (Habitat, Oportunidades, Liconsa).

             SEDESOL has integrated its physical and social interventions in urban communities under a
             single umbrella slum-upgrading program (Habitat), as approved and funded by Congress.

             Government has modified its regulations to expand its major social program (Oportunidades)
             from a rural focus to include urban areas, reflectingthe growing levels of urban poverty

             SEDESOL has completed an environmental assessment (EA) of the urban sector.

         Low and ModerateIncomeLand Development


         0   SEDESOL has completed a full assessment of state and municipal land regulations in two
             regions to rationalize and simplify the land development process.'8


         0   SEDESOL has finished studies that: (a) inventory developable urban land; and (b) analyze
             the legal and financial options for residentialland development.

         Disaster Prevention and Management


         0   SEDESOL has carried out at least 30 community-level risk analyses under its HABITAT
             program.


         0   SEDESOL has carried out at least 15 sensitization and mitigation projects under its
             HABITAT program.

         0   SEDESOL has put forward at least 10 proposals to organize land use in order to prevent
             naturaldisasters.

64.      The second operation will follow on the development of the policy changes initiated under the
first with the following key prior actions: (i)    maintenance of sound macroeconomic framework consistent
with policy objectives and programs described in the Letter of Development Policy; (ii)            Government has
completed an evaluation of federal housing subsidy programs taking into account land and infrastructure
subsidies delivered at the local level to federally assisted housing projects, and the results &e reflectedin


   The two regions include the states of Baja California, Baja California Sur, Chihuaha, Coahuila, Durango, Nuevo
Leon, Sinaloa, Sonoraand Tamaulipas.



                                                     Page 21

the subsidy programs designed for 2005; (iii) has designed and put in practice pilot projects, in
                                                 SHF
accordance with standards agreed between the Government and the Bank, for financing home
improvement, additions, and purchase of existing housing; (iv) five additional state governments have
implementedproperty registry modernization programs, in accordance with standards agreed between the
Government and the Bank; (v) SEDESOL has strengthened Habitat through participatory planning,
coordination, and sequencing of investments; and (vi) Government has completed a quantitative analysis
of the costs and benefits of different modes of low/moderate-income land development, and developed an
action plan that facilitates lowlmoderate-income residential land development. Key prior actions for the
third operation include: (i)maintenance of sound macroeconomic framework consistent with policy
objectives and programs described in the Letter of Development Policy; (ii)Government has designed -
as reflected in the approved 2006 budget - a unified subsidy systemacross federal subsidy programs that:
(a) improves equity, progressivity, and increased beneficiary contributions across programs; (b) does not
allow joining subsidies from a variety of federal programs ("double dipping") thereby resultingin a total
amount of subvention per-unit that exceeds agreed-upon ceilings; (c) adjusts state and municipal
contribution requirements to federal subsidy programs based on the poverty level in the jurisdiction; (d)
establishes consistent rules for beneficiary selection, for linking receipt of the subsidy to household
savings, and for the subsidy amount; and e) increases portability of subsidies; (iii)SHF mainstreams
financing of home improvement, addition and purchase of existing housing, in accordance with standards
agreed between the Government and the Bank; and (iv) satisfactory implementation of a pilot program
that facilitates low/moderate-income residential land development. Additional non-prioritized actions
expected as part of program implementation can be found in annex 1.


E.       FinancialAssistanceandInstitutionalandImplementationArrangements

65.      The proposed US100.00 million HUSALl in the form of a fixed spread, US Dollar Loan, will be
made to the United Mexican States. The full amount of the loan i s expected to be disbursed upon
effectiveness based on actions completed prior to presentation of the loan to the World Bank Board of
Directors. The proposed loan would cover the first of three adjustment operations in this program. The
subsequent adjustment loans will be based on the Government's implementation of its medium term
program as shown by the actions outlined in paragraphs 64 and Annex 1. It i s expected that the second
and third loans of this program take place in August 2005 and August 2006 respectively. The closing
date for the first SECAL (HUSAL 1) i s December 31, 2004. The companion Technical Assistance Loan
supporting reform implementation i s expected to be presentedfor Board approval shortly.

66.      Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal (SHF) will act as financial agent for the Borrower under a
subsidiary agreement (contrato de mandato).

67.      Disbursement. Loan disbursement will be made under simplified disbursement procedures.
Proceeds will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program, including
compliance with stipulated effectiveness conditions. The Borrower has already fulfilled the conditions
for disbursement as a condition of Board presentation of the operation.          In accordance with the
Operational Directive on Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sector
Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996), disbursements will not be linked to specific purchasesand, hence,
there will be no procurement requirements. Once the loan becomes effective, the Borrower will open and
maintain a corresponding deposit account in dollars at the Banco de Mexico. When the loan becomes
effective (assuming no policy or macroeconomic reversals), the Borrower will submit a simplified
withdrawal application against which the Bank will disburse the corresponding loan proceeds into the
deposit account for the Borrower's use. If,after deposit inthis account, the proceeds of the loan are used
for ineligible purposesas outlined in the Loan Agreement, the Bank will require the Borrower to either:




                                                Page22

(a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to the
Bank (in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan).

68.     Financial Management        -  Country Issues.     The Mexico Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) was completed in October 2003. The CFAA focused on the national level public
sector, which it considered to have generally sound FM systems and institutions. Country financial
management risk was rated as Moderate and all individual risk factors were rated Low or Moderate.
Although, the direct impact of this CFAA on Project FM system i s low because project implementation
will be handled by a national financial agency Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal (SHF), CONAFOVI and
SEDESOL; project funds will go through public financial managementsystems.

69.     Auditing.    Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower will have the Deposit Account audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with specific audit terms of reference for
this project, agreed with the Bank. Copies of any audit will be submitted to the Bank no later than four
months after the date of the Bank's requestfor such as audit. The Bank will review those report, evaluate
its acceptability, and provide comments and recommendations (if any).

70.     Loan Management and Monitoring.            Loan administration will be the responsibility of the
financial agent, SHF, designated by the Borrower. The financial agent will be responsible for preparing
the withdrawal application, maintaining the Deposit Account and arranging for its timely audit (if
requested by the Bank), and monitoring overall loan implementation. The financial agent will also be
responsible for coordinating the preparation of the Borrower's contributions to the Implementation
Completion Report and for writing those sections relating to loan administration. Monitoring of reform
programimplementation will be supported by the accompanying technical assistanceloan.


F.       Environment and Resettlement

71.      During project preparation, the Mexican Government complete an environmental assessment
(EA) of the housing and urban sectors (see Annex 3 on the "Environmental and Social Aspects of the
HUSAL."). These reports detail policies, technological options, and planning methods, and make
recommendations. The EAs indicate that formal-sector development has highly positive environmental
impacts that can nonetheless be enhanced.         Informal development, however, occurs frequently at
considerable distance from infrastructure lines, on environmentally sensitive or risky sites, and lacks
proper solid waste and sanitation services, and spaces for public utility, and requires some re-platting on
upgrading. The EAs conclude that the foreseen reforms of the HUSAL will have widespread positive
environmental impacts, largely by increasing the share of formal-sector development and mitigating the
problems of informal development. Some localized negative impacts, however, are to be expected. For
this reason, the project i s rated Category "B". The SECAL does not finance direct investments and the
Bank`s Involuntary Resettlement Policy (OP 4.12) does not apply.

72.      Given the nature of these potential impacts, one of the aims of the program will be to mainstream
environmental and resettlement concerns into housing, land and urban policy. As part of these efforts, a
strategic environmental assessment (SEA) will be prepared with procedures and standardsagreed between
the Government and the Bank, with financial and technical support from the accompanying technical
assistance loan.




                                                Page 23

             v.       THEMACROECONOMIC          FRAMEWORK     FORTHE PROPOSEDOPERATION

73.      After enactment of N m A in 1994, the Mexican export sector experienced strong expansion.
As the US economy slowed in 2001, the Mexican economy went in a recessionfrom which it is presently
recovering. Real GDPgrew at 0.7% per annum in 2002 and at an estimated 1.3% in 2003. The economic
downtum was explained by several factors. Mexico's market share of non-oil exports in U.S. imports fell
from 11.4% in 2001 to 10.7% in 2003. Exports of manufactured goods, that had quadrupled over the
previous decade, dropped from their 2000 highpoint to an average US$ 141billion inthe past three years.
Finally, a sharp contraction of private investment, associatedwith global economic uncertainties and lack
of domestic structural reforms, ledto a deceleration of domestic demand and weak output growth.

74.      Mexico has been able to maintain financial and price stability and access to capital markets
duringthe international economic downturn and emerging market turbulence of the past few years. The
recession was the first in Mexico's recent history not associated with a balance of payments or financial
crisis. There are still concerns about loss of competitiveness, but Mexico should be able to benefit from a
sustained recovery in the U.S. and attain higher rates of economic growth over the coming years (see
Table 3 below.) Industrial production and trade figures for the last quarter of 2003 already show a strong
responseto the upturnin US.economic activity.


I                          Table 3. Mexico's MainMacroeconomic Indicators                              1




75.      The government's economic policy remains focused on price stability as a precondition to
economic growth while pursuing structural reforms to boost private investment and increasethe country's
medium-term competitiveness. Monetary policy aims at controlling inflation at about 3% with a margin
of pludminus 1 percent. The gradual decline in inflation over the past few years and a 2003 year-end
inflation within the medium-term target range has contributed to the credibility of the monetary policy
framework and the authorities' commitment to the medium-term goals. This, in turn, has allowed the
easing of monetary policy, leading to substantially lower domestic market interest rates, and the
development of the longer-term fixed-rate debt market (the government recently issued a 20-year fixed
rate peso denominated bond). Historically low interest rates are also improving the availability of credit
to the private sector.

76.      The govemment has maintained tight fiscal policies, largely meeting its annually established
fiscal targets and setting objectives for further, medium-term fiscal consolidation. Fiscal deficit targets
have gradually been reduced, moving toward a balanced budget by the end of the government's term.
Automatic budget adjustment rules.requiringexpenditure cuts incase of lower-than-expected revenue and
allocating higher-than-budgeted revenue have been adopted and applied through the annual budget laws.
A broader Public Sector Borrowing Requirements (PSBR) deficit measure has also been adopted and
published on an annual basis, strengthening the case for further medium-term fiscal consolidation.
Mounting public expenditure pressures in areas of social sector spending, public infrastructure, public
sector pension reform, and declining oil revenue will require a renewedeffort at tax reform



                                                 Page 24

77.      Mexico's external accounts do not pose a risk to macroeconomic stability. The country's extemal
deficit (i.e. the balance of payments' current account) has beenreduced over the past two years to about 2
percent of GDP as a result of strong oil export revenue, rapidly increasing workers' remittances, lower
interest payments on external debt and subdued net import demand. Strengthening of the external
accounts and sound macroeconomic management allowed the country to broaden access to international
capital markets and meet its external financing requirements.

78.      Mexico adopted a floating exchange rate regime following the balance of payments crisis of
1994-95, with interventions in the exchange market normally limited to rule-based mechanisms. The
flexible exchange rate provides a useful buffer against external shocks, such as a sudden fall in oil prices,
a significant drop in capital inflows or increased international competition. In reaction to the limited
progress on a competitiveness-enhancing reform program, over the past two years the peso depreciated
with respect to the U S dollar. While this may initially compensate part of the deterioration of extemal
competitiveness, in the medium term, a continued depreciation of the currency is likely jeopardize the
country's price stability and growth objectives.

79.      The internal economic transition i s proving much more challenging than would have been
expected a decade ago. After the resolution of the debt crisis and the implementation of NAFTA,Mexico
was believed to be in route to a long and sustained period of economic development. However, the mid
ninety's crisis and the recent prolonged stagnation of economic activity highlight the fact that there are
still unresolved structural development challenges. The legacy of the 1994-95 crisis remains with Mexico
as poverty levels only just recovered to early 1990's levels and the advantages brought by NAFTA could
be undermined if Mexico does not tackle the competitiveness agenda.


                                         VI.     BANKSTRATEGY

80.       The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The HUSAL Iwill help the World Bank support
Mexico's efforts to achieve three objectives of the CAS approved on April 15, 2004: poverty reduction,
competitiveness, and environmental sustainability.       Most fundamentally, the project will result in
improved housing, basic services, and access to real assets by low-income households. The project
addresses this key aspect of poverty through support of a national slum upgrading program and new
housing and land development for low-income families.               The project also targets increased
competitiveness through increasing the efficiency of housing and urban development, housing finance,
and property registries and rights systems. Many low/moderate income homes contain microenterprises
as well as provide shelter, while homeowners often build accessory units to rent or for family members.
Thus, the housing unit often serves as a key source of capital accumulation critical to building a strong
middle class. By supporting measures to reduce the housing system's reliance on inefficient public
housing finance and to bolster a stable financial system, the loan will help reduce risks to the federal
government of bailouts and reduce demand for Government support. Finally, the project will have a
strongly positive environmental impact through improving conditions inexisting slums and by promoting
formal-sector development on appropriate sites with rational layout.

81.       Complementarity with Other Operations by the World Bank.               The proposed Technical
Assistance Loan (HUTAL) will provide support for implementation of the policies and reforms of
HUSALI, foster continuity between this first operation and the secondandthirdHUSALloans. The
             and
sector adjustment program will also complement the ongoing FOVVSHF operation. Although both of
these operations deal partly with "housing", FOVI and HUSAL have quite different target clientele,
purposes, and methods. The FOVIproject mainly provides liquidity and technical assistance for reform
of SHF - an institution that serves primarily middle-income families - whose central role i s to lead the



                                                 Page 25

development of primary and secondary mortgage markets for this group. The HUSAL program mainly
targets low-income families through broader sector reforms involving housing subsidies, moving housing
finance and savings programs downmarket, slumupgrading, and low/moderate-income landdevelopment.
Similarly, the adjustment loan will support a strong national policy and programming framework for the
housing and urban sectors, and complement efforts for adjustment and funding for infrastructure at the
state level by the Decentralization Program. The HUSAL program will also work with SEDESOL to
develop policy and programming focusing on disaster mitigation. The ongoing Disaster Management
Program(FONDEN) has focused on fundingdisasterclean up.

82.      The IFC has a number of operations in the housing finance area, and inthe pipeline that total US
$215 million. These projects offer different types of investments (equity, debt, and guarantees) and
include primary and secondary mortgage finance and construction finance. The largest of these projects
was an equity stake in General Hipotecario, the largest SOFOL, which was sold two years ago. At that
time, the IFC invested as a shareholder in the second-largest SOFOL, Su Casita, and supported this
financial institution's first mortgage bond issue.

83.      Finally, the program helps lay the groundwork for a broader effort in property rights reform for
which the Government has requested Bank support. The new CAS contains a specific operation on
Property Rights for FY 05. The HUSAL and its accompanying T.A. loan will pave the way for this
broader program by: (a) continuing the property registry modernization pilot project that i s a priority of
the Fox Administration and important to show immediate results; (b) conducting studies on property
rights reform necessary to effectively design the broader Property Rights program; and (c) establishing
working relationships between Bank staff and relevant government agencies inthe area of property rights.

84.      Complementarity with ZDB Operations. The proposed adjustment loan will complement the
ongoing IDB loan supporting Prosavi housing subsidies. As with the FOVI project, the proposed Bank
adjustment loan goes beyond the more limited objectives of the IDB Prosavi loan to assess institutions
and programs across both the housing and urban sectors, and to develop a unified and effective housing
subsidy system.



                                             VII.    BENEFITS

85.      The program coordinates reforms in the multiple areas that affect affordable housing and urban
poverty to galvanize progress inthis sector. Formal-sector housingproduction (with accompanying urban
services and land) will increasefrom the current pace of around 500,000 formal-sector housing solutions
currently to afigure approaching 750,000 per year by 2006 -the official government goal. Typically, this
new production will benefit low to moderate-income families (2 to 6 MW). Inaddition, the program will
support joining physical and social interventions to improve the living environment of 90,000 households
per year in the poorest urbancommunities (below 2 MW). These slumupgradingefforts will likely have
long term effects as they help break the cyclical poverty that occurs as a result of the fact that youth and
children suffer most from slum conditions; visible housing and infrastructure disparities fuel social
tensions and crime; and unplanned expansion of urban settlements make delivery of services and
conventional infrastructure more costly over the long-term. Overall, the, HUSAL will benefit the range
of income groups requiring assistance for adequate shelter and settlement. Reaching a broad range of
incomes holds particular importance as experience shows that higher income groups will find ways to
take the housing, land, and assistance targeted to lower-income groups if they (higher-income groups)
have no other alternatives.

86.      Equally important, the program supports the strengthening of the systems and institutions that
underlie advance in these sectors. As regards systems, the HUSAL furthers reforms that improve



                                                 Page26

secondary mortgage markets, housing microfinance for low/moderate-income households (for low-cost
housing solutions), safety and soundness regulation of home-finance institutions, property appraisal, full
disclosure of finance costs, secure tenure and property registration, low/moderate-income land
development, community participation, and disaster mitigation. As regards institutions and programs, the
program sets milestones for improving the interventions of a wide range of organizations involved in
housing and urban poverty - including CONAFOVI, SHF, FONHAPOFONAEVI, BANSEFI, financial
institutions, state property registries, SEDESOL, state and local housing institutes, and local governments.



                                       !%I.RISKSANDMITIGATION

87.      The program has three main risks. &, the comprehensive, cross-sectoral approach i s relatively
ambitious, and - thus - may risk timely approval of the second and third loans. Reform of housing and
urban development, however, must deal with credit finance, subsidies, land development and planning,
property rights, slum upgrading, disaster management, and policy. Hence, the natural synergies and
complementarity among these areas require a comprehensive package. Moreover, Mexico's housing and
urban sectors have suffered from fractionalized policy-making and implementation. As a result, a cross-
cutting program best addresses the housing and urban sectors. The GoM and the Bank team intend to
address this risk through a well-designed, integrated strategy and a modest number of key prior actions as
triggers for the different phases of the program.

88.      Second, the project faces institutional risks as several agencies must contribute to achieve the
intended reform. The Program deals with this risk by relyingon the leadership of the Ministry of Finance
(SHCP) - the key counterpart of the loan. While the Bank team has worked extensively with SEDESOL
-theleadagencyintheurbansector-CONAFOVI-theleadagencyinaffordablehousing, andSHF-
the lead agency on housing finance reform, SHCP can provide leadership across ministries, ensure the
fiscal sustainability of the program, and link the real and the financial side of the program. In addition,
the accompanying technical assistance loan (HUSAT) will provide an extensive program of support
tailored to mitigate technical and human-resourceconstraints.

89.      Third, the lack of federal fiscal reform severely constrains immediate possibilities for increasing
the housing and urban development programs that depend on subsidies. HUSAL deals with this risk by
improving these programs and making their benefits clear in order to prepare them for expansion when
fundingbecomesavailable.




                                                 Page 27

                                   IX.    RECOMMENDATIONS

90.   IamsatisfiedthattheproposedloancomplieswiththeArticlesofAgreementoftheBank,and
recommend that the Executive Directorsapprove it.




                                                                 James D.Wolfensohn
                                                                 President




Washington, D.C.
May 25,2004
Attachments




                                           Page 28


(A
      b




      b

2
x
0
.3

a
0

I




/z
 x
 o

            m
            m

            a%




a    a    a

  5c!




0
x
3
.3
a
0

x
.e
0

PI
0

z




2
c

0




      -
        e,
        e,
       3
       .-x
       Y
       i)

0    0      0

                                               ANNEX 2

                           LETTEROFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY



                                     SllBSECRETARlADE HACIENDAY CREDIT0 PUBLICO


                                     102-8- 039


                                     Ml!xico, D.F.,a 10 de mayo de 2004




Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.20433
US.A.


Dear Mr.Walfensohn


           This letter of Sector Dedelopment Policy describes Mexico's current economic
conditions and its on-going process a'ffinancial sector reforms in order to improve the housing
and urban sector. The proposedrefor-msincludemodifyingthe incentive6faced by the different
economic agents, strengthening the legal and regulatory framework, as well as completing the
restructuring of the sector related iniititutions. To implement these reforms and manage the
associatedfiscal coststhe Government requestsfinancial assistance from the World Bank.


                                   I MacroeconomicFramework

            Matro-economic stabilization and the reduction in inflationhave createda favorable
context for reform in the housing anti urban sector. In particular, these macro improvements
have dnven down mortgage interest ratesfrom over 30% per annum in much of the late 1990s
to around to 15% 17% nominal (2004). Ceteris Paribus, this change has made housing and
                   -
urban development more affordable.

           Since 2000, the Government of Mexico has been engaged in a broad range of
reforms specifically related to housingand urban development. We have developed an official
housing strategy and an official urban development strategy that set overall goals and
approaches in the sector. The Gowrnment has also launched a series of programs and
created new institutionsinthese sectors.

       The majorreformsinhousing include:

               Creation of a new organization, CONAFOVI,to coordinate other housingrelated
               institutionsand to dew op housingpolicy, along with the formation of CONAVI as
               a public-private forum to stimulate and organize the participationof key actors in
               the sector into policy and programs.

                                                  Page 38

                                    SUBSECRETARIA DEHAClENDAY CREDIT0 PUBLICO




                                              - 2 -


              Formation of a new secondary-tier housing credit institution, the SHF, with the
              powers essential to develop this market. Although the SHF inherited important
              assets from FOVl     -  the beneficiary of considerable govemment and donor
              capitalizationin which the World Bank has participated   - the SHF increasingly
              relies on private-sector fundingand isdeveloping a rangeof new productscritical
              to expansionof the market-rate homecredit.
              Development of BANSEFI in order to stimulate household savings, in general,
              and the link betweenhousehold savings andhousingcredit, in particular.
              Expansionand improvement of two subsidy programs "Prosavi" and "Tu Casa"
                                                                     -
              organization - FONAEVI
              and harmonization of these subsidy programs, and creation of a new
                                         -to   centralize informationand operation of'a unified
              housingsubsidy system.
              Substantialimprovement in the operation of INFONAVIT(e.g.a substantialdrop
              in arrears, and new products, auch as expansion of 43b that use8 INFONAVIT
              accountsto enhance piivate-sectorcredit).
              A pilot property rights registry modemizationprogram in three states that is now
              set for expansionto five more.

These improvements have resulted in increased production of housing solutions          - from
somewhat over 300,000in 2000 to over 500,000in 2003.                                -
social and economic benefits it brings       represents an important accomplishment of this
Administration.                           -                   Improvement in housing and the




       The urbansector hasalso seen importantprogressincluding:

              Creation of a national !slum upgradingprogram, "Habitat". This programfocuses
              a rangeof physical and social investmentsin poor urbancommunities.
              Support of local and state governmentsin getting accessto land for low-income
              housingdevelopment.
              Spreadinga rangeof poverty relief efforts   -such as "Opottunidades"-from rural
              to urbanareas.
              Substantial expansion in naturaldisaster relief and mitigation efforts. We are
              convinced that mitigating and, thus, preventing the damage caused by natural
             disasters is much more effective than post-disaster aid and are strengthening
             this aspect of our disaster policyand programs.
              Strengthening of SEDESOL so that this Ministry more effectively develops and
              executes urbanpoliciesand programs.




                                                Page 39

                                     sJBSECRETARIA DEHACIENDAY CREDITOpuecico

                                     102-B- 039




            We are interested in a programmatic adjustment program with this $100 million
                                                                          -
operation as the first operation in order to continuethe reform momentum and to assist these
and other efforts inthe housing and urban sectors,


                                    If Strategies and Actions


            This section highlights some of the main strategies and actions that Government
had implemented in recent years and will implementin the medium term to deepen recent and
on-going reforms and to provide the ltameworkfor donor-assisted program in the housingand
urban development sectors. These measures are aimed at facilitating and building markets,
strengthening institutions, and targeting assistance to low-income households that would
otherwise be unableto affordbasic housingandurbanservices.

            Macro-economicstabilization. A criticalelement inthis medium-term programisthe
maintenance of fiscal disciplineand macfo-economicstability. Housing and urban development
are particularly sensitive to macro-economic conditions for a number of reasons. Foremost,
long-termmortgage interest rates are set off the yield curve on the Govemment'sdebt. In turn,
the level of .mortgage interest rates plays a crucial role in the ability of households to afford
adequate housing and the urban sewices financed with it (land. tenure, water, sanitation) in
formal-sectordevelopment. Hence, the most fundamental policy for Govemment in this sector
is to bring down nominal and real interest ratesthrough continued macro-economicstabilization
andfiscal discipline.

sector andMacro-economic positiori of public and private organization8 that serve it. For
             on the financialstabilization ha6 had substantial positive impact throughout the

example, this decrease in long-term interest rates has brought INFONAVIT loans to middle-
income householdsto levelsthat are close to marketrates. In contrast, the same nominalrates
on such INFONAVIT loans were previously substantially below market, with this burden
assumed by this autonomous public financial organization. The drop in nominal interest rates
has also substantially expanded the potential marketfor mortgagelending and the potentialfor
development of a secondary mortgage market by SHF, as more and more households can
affordthese loans. Hence, Govemnient's most fundamental action in the housing and urban
sectors consistsof maintainingmacroaconomicstability,which hasproduceda sharpdecline in
the levelof nominalinterest rates and a gradualdeclineinthe level of realinterestrates.




                                               Page 40

                                     SIJBSECRETARIA DEHACIENDA Y CREDIT0 PUBLICO




             Even with such macro-economic improvements, however, a substantial share of
Mexicansare unable to afford adequate housingand urban services, while developing markets
(for credit, land, urban services) also requires support. Hence, the Government is pursuing a
series of sector-specificactionsto besupported by the programmaticadjustment loan, based on
the following principles;

             Housina strateav and institutions. The recently formulated National HousingPolicy
for 2001-2006 states the importanceof increasingproductionand access of the poorto shelter.
The Government has set as an over-archinggoal the doubling formal housing production by
2006 (to 750.000 housing solutions par year) through a decentralized and market-based
approach. The pillars undertying this Administration's housing strategy include: (i)targeting
lowlmoderate-incomehouseholds; (ii) a unifiedsystem of housing subsidies to be administered
by a single agency complemented by credit and savings; (iii) expanding housing finance by
putting inplacethe methods and instilutionsto developprimary and secondary markets,and by
working with financiai institutions experienced in serving lowhnoderate-income groups to
develop products for financing low-ccst housing solutions (improvement, expansion. purchase
of existing housing); (iv)strengthening propertyrights.


subsidies across previously-fragmented, uncoordinatedprograms
             Housina subsidy P r o m s and policy. Mexico has standardizedand
                                                                   -"Proaavi'  federal housing
                                                                                   "Tu Casa"   -
by: (a) cpnveying comparable amounts for comparable uses for these programs; and (b)
placing all on-budget federal housing subsidies under the control of one operating fund,
FONAEVI (a division of FONHAPO). This Administrationwill continuethis reform under the first
loan by completingevaluations of all national housing subsidy programs and designing a new
unified housingsubsidy programthat meets agreed-on principlesof efficiencyand equity.

             Housina credit and household savinas. This Administration views reform of the
housingfinance system as criticalto meeting its goals in both the housing and urban sectors.
GoM's program builds on important structural reforms initiated under FOVl in the previous
administrationand continuingwith $HI=-the successorof FOVl       - underthe current government
that include: (a) leveraging market-orientedprivate resources, mainly through guarantees of
private-sectordebt on capitalmarkets and elsewhere. ratherthan government borrowingdirectly
to provide liquidity; and (b) improvingthe efficiency and increasingthe capacity of the existing
home lending institutions (banks, SOFOLES, SHF, and the provident funddhousing lenders
INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE). The Govemment has also approved a new credit-guarantee
law and a financial-transparencylaw, while SHF has expandedits productsto includefinancing
and guaranteesboth in UDlsand pesos.




                                                Page41

                                       SLIBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDIT0 PUBLICO


                                       102-B- 039




             Other reforms in housing :redit under this loan will include: (a) issue of rUkS on
property appraisal methodsand disclo:;ure of costs for construction loans: (b) makingavailable
a mortgage credit-risk database to the! private sector; (c) adjusting SHF pricing to reflect the
effectiveness of foreclosure practices in states; and (d) SHF development of financial products
for finance of low-costhousingsolutionsto lowlmoderate-incomehouseholds.
             Prooertv riahts modernization. The Mexican Government places great priority on
securing property rights as key to the development of many markets and socio-economic
benefits, including thosefor mortgage and housing credit, urban realestate taxation, extension
and charging of public-utilitytariffs, safeguardingof family relations.and the generalwelfare, In
this regard,we haveestablished a propertyrights registrymodernization programinthreestates
and will expand this program to five additionalstates during the periodof the first Programmatic
loan.

             National urban develoom~antpolicy and slum upcaradins. The Govemment has
recently formulated an Urban Oevelopment Plan for 2001-2006 that emphasizes reaching poor
communities with physical infrastruct*Jreand social services.        In line with this priority, this
Administration has established a nationwideslum upgrading program, called "Habitat",that now
works in 60 cities. This program uses poverty mapping to target investments and has
established local planningagencies to promote local development. During the period of the first
Programmatic loan, the GoM will ostablish local planning agencies in an additional 45
municipalities, spread the use of poverty mapping widely to local govemments and
communities, and assess and strengthenthe participatoryaspects of "Habitat" to help improve
the investmentprocess.

             Land deVelODment and CICCBSS bv the Door.          Land access for the poor is a
particularly crucial problem. Currently, one component of "Habitat" helps local govemments
access land for low-income housing development. As in many other countries ifthe poor are
unable to access land formally, they typically do so informally, althoughsuch informalmethods
temporarily provide a solution to the individual family's immediate problem, the evidence
suggests the such irregular settlement creates great costs to government in subsequent re-
ordering and infrastructureprovision, and to households in the form of a poor, unhealthy living
environment. Duringthe period of the first Programmaticloan, this Administrationwill conduct a
quantitative analysisof formal vs. informaldevelopmentaimed at creatingeffective methods for
facilitating and providing land to low and moderate-income households that leverage the
abilitiesof the privatesector.

             Mitisation of natural disasters.     The Mexican experience shows that taking
preventative measures can eliminate up to 90% of the costs of post-disasteraid. Hence, the
Government is interested in develop ng new methods of disaster mitigation and prepare risk
atlases for 25 cities, train the media, disseminatedisastermitigationinformationthrough school
curricula,and promote risk-transferortions such as insurance.




                                                 Page42

                                   S(JBSECRETAR1ADE HACIENDA Y CREDIT0 PUBLICO




                                   Ill World Bank Support



to reach the goal of producing 750,0110 housing solutions per annum on a sustainable basis.
housingandInurban development. However, we recognize that much progress is still neessary
              recent years, the Goverimentof Mexico has made many substantial advances in


The above measures will help addrefisthe sectdo constraints and promote economic growth
andjob creation, as well as provide social benefits ta families with new or improvedhomes and
urban services. The proposed Affofidable Housing and Urban Poverty Program will play an
importantrole infacilitatingthe necewary reforms.




c.c.p.- Unidadde Crbdito PQblico,St1CP.- Presente.
       Oireccidn General Adjunta de Deuda Publica,SHCP.- Presente.




                                             Page43

                                                ANNEX 3


  ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIALASPECTS OFTHE MEXICO AFFORDABLEHOUSING
          AND URBANPOVERTYPROGRAMMATIC SECTORADJUSTMENTLOAN



A.       Environmentalconsiderationsofthe HUSAL

The HUSAL, a sectoral adjustment loan, will support government efforts in the housing and urban
sectors. In contrast to informal settlements which typically suffer from environmental and social
problems due to lack of service provision, formal settlements are characterized by infrastructure
provision, access to green spaces, public transportation, and access to social services such as healthclinics
and education.    The transition from informal to formal settlement will alter the current trend of
environmental degradation. The reforms supported by the HUSAL aim to increase access of poor and
moderate income families to formal sector housing- including finishedhousing, home improvements and
neighborhood upgrading - to reduce the negative environmental impacts of informal settlement, among
other benefits. While the foreseen reforms will have widespread positive environmental impacts, some
localized negative impacts are to be expected. For this reason, the project i s rated Category "B".

To ensure that environmental issues are incorporated into the design and instrumentation of the
Government's actions, that the project capitalizes on opportunities to promote sound environmental
management and that any negative environmental impacts are mitigated, the Government of Mexico
contracted a consulting firm to complete an environmental assessment (EA) during project preparation.
Due to administrative separation of the housing and urban sectors within the Government, the same
consultant group prepared two separate EAs. The EAs are rapid assessments containing: a description of
key environmental aspects in the sector; an assessment of the feasibility of integrating environment into
specific government actions; and, recommendations for activities to be undertaken.

The objectives of the EAs are to:


         0      Review and analyze the principal institutions that are involved in the sector, and the most
                relevantjurisdictional aspects of decentralization;
         0      Review and analyze, in detail, the programs related to housing and urban development
                and their intersection with environment. The analysis includes an evaluation of the legal,
                fiscal and regulatory frameworks important for mitigating possible future environmental
                impacts;
         0      Make recommendations for future actions; and,
         0      Include case studies where appropriate.


B.       Mainfindings,ofthe EAs

Geophysical and ecological characteristics.        The EAs reviewed the geophysical and ecological
characteristics and land-use trends of the country and found that the location of economic activities
contrasts with the availability of natural resources. Aquifers, biodiversity and archeological sites are
concentrated in the south-east of the country, whereas economic activity i s concentrated in Mexico City
and the northem border. Even so, direct links are evident between economic growth and environmental
degradation, and between poverty and degradation. The country's natural resources are under constant
threat from indiscriminant urban and agricultural expansion. Environmental quality in urban areas has



                                                  Page 44

deteriorated, resulting in salt water intrusion from groundwater mining, aquifer contamination from lack
of sewerage, illegal trash disposal and resultant health problems due to lack of solid waste management
and air pollution due to poor housing design and construction (in the case of indoor air pollution), and
trash burningand traffic (inthe case of outdoor air pollution).

An overview of environmental services and risks of natural and man-made disasters is presented. The
importance of specific geo-morphological and hydro-meteorological risks are evaluated, as well as man-
made risks such as industrial accidents, forest fires, land degradation, and pollution. The administration of
such risks is Federal, and the pertinent policies and institutions are discussed.

Policy, institutions and legal frameworks.        The EAs outline the legal framework governing urban
development and housing and make specific recommendations for rationalizing the policy, legal and
institutionalframeworks. Few policies relevant to the sectors include environmental considerations, even
though institutions exist to protect environmental interests. Sectorahation of institutions, programs and
policies and weak inter-institutional coordination have resulted inunsustainable development. Inefficient
policies have led to environmental and historical deterioration.         A lack of integration of urban and
environmental considerations in planning, neglect of historic areas, speculative land purchases, passivity
of public administration in limiting illegal settlements, disordered settlements with little community
identity, and inadequate resource allocation to local governments to effectively address urban problems
have all resulted in negative impacts. Some policies, such as those promoting industrial growth, have
leadto direct environmental degradation inurban areas.

Decentralization of decision-making has suffered from a lack of participation and consensus, especially
related to resource allocation and monitoring. Withinthe urban development context, the institutionaland
legal frameworks need updating to become coherent interms of environmental and social protection.

Currently, environmental issues are mainly considered at the programmatic level within the urban and
housing sectors. In theory, plans should include environmental policies and technical standards, though
in practice, this rarely happens. Even when included, the implementation of such policies, norms and
standards are rarely carried out or enforced. For example, improper use of construction material i s one of
the major environmental problems related to housing, despite strict laws.

The regulatory and administrative frameworks for project-specific EMS, permits and licenses are
complex and a succinct overview is presented in the EAs. For new civil works in urban areas, an EL4
needs to be presented when the works signify a risk to the community, cultural, historical, archeological
or artistic property. Protection of cultural property i s strictly regulated; the EA outlines the procedures
and rules.

Social and economic factors. As is expected, socioeconomic aspects play a prominent role in the
analysis of the sectors. Urban development and housing efforts need to focus not only on the needs of
formalizing informal settlements, but also on their causes. Quality of urban life has suffered from
fragmentation of communities, poor environmental conditions, lack of social services, loss of community
identity, concentration of informal housing, growing unemployment, poverty, social exclusion, family
instability, lack of infrastructure, and vulnerability to natural disasters. The fact that the majority of the
population cannot afford housing in the formal market means that existing regulations apply to only half
of settlements and home construction. Low densities have made it nearly impossible to provide basic
services to many existing informal settlements. Housing design and construction quality is important for
indoor air pollution prevention, vulnerability reduction to natural disasters, and overall contentment;
however, no program to-date includes concrete actions to improve the environmental conditions of
construction.



                                                    Page45

C.       Recommendationswithinthe EAs

The EAs analyze myriad topics.               Some recommendations are on the macro level of
policy/legal/institutional frameworks, such as that urban development policies avoid focusing all attention
on large cities, and rather focus on medium-sized cities, where stresses from current migration are acutely
felt.  Other recommendations are focused on more specific actions for the next years, such as
development of sustainability indicators and institutional strengthening. Some of these recommendations
are summarized below.

Sustainability indicatorsfor the housing sector. It is recommended that CONAFOVI begin to collect
information to take into account the environmental costs of sector activities. This may be done through
intergovernmental coordination with SEDESOL, SEMARNAT, the Secretary of Energy, CONACYT and
the industry chambers. The indicators should be based on the causes of environmental problems, the
related processes and possible technical solutions to allow CONAFOVI to evaluate and adjust housing
programs on an annual basis in order to improve environmental management.

Fostering progressive housing. The housing sector EA advocates a shift in housing policy to place
greater emphasis on starter houses @ie de casu) and the progressive housing process, The shift toward
provision of lower costs housing options will increase access to formal housing for the large number of
low income families - housing which takes into account environmental costs in its design. Along these
lines, policy should promote densification of urban areas through recuperation and recycling of existing
units. This will allow use of existing infrastructure, recuperation of historic and central zones of cities
and reduce environmentalimpact by slowingurbanexpansion.

Structure of housing markets. The reports proposes financial and institutional strengthening of the
federal and state entities that support the housing market to reach a greater proportion of families with
housing finance instruments. Most of the current financing goes to formal sector employees of moderate
income and above, leaving the majority of the population with only informal housing options that do not
follow development regulations and do not include environmental considerations in the informal housing
development.

Housing construction technology. The EA recommends the use of environmentally friendly innovations
in construction technology for housing in terms of water, energy, solid waste and wastewater to reduce
environmental costs. It i s recommended that criteria for innovation be included and favored in bidding
documents for public housing and incorporated into municipal construction regulations. Funding to
sector organizations in association with CONACYT could be an avenue to foster the development of
environmental friendly technologies for housing in Mexico. Finally, public education campaigns could
effectively be used to promote good practice in the use of water and energy and recycling of household
waste.

Sustainability indicators for the urban sector.       As in the housing sector, the urban sector EA
recommends that SEDESOL begin collecting information to take environmental costs into account in
sector activities. Again, this may be done through intergovernmental coordination with SEMARNAT, the
Secretariatsof the Government, Energy, Health, and Communications and Transport, CONACYT and the
states.

Institutional Strengthening.      The EA suggests that SEDESOL take on sustainability of urban
development as an explicit function. This could be done through the current structure of the Secretariat at
the central level or through the creation of a deconcentrated entity that would develop, monitor and
enforce sustainability objectives. The EA also advocates the creation of a capacity building program for
urban development professionals in city, state and federal government. The program would cover the


                                                  Page 46

following topics:    holistic vision of the urban development process and the explicit environmental
sustainability links; how to apply environmental topics in urban development and land use plans and the
development and use of related environmental indicators.

Geographic information systems. The EA outlines the need to strengthen geographic information
systems at the state level. The information should support improvements in cadastre and civil protection
systems. They should incorporate at least the geographic information of the programs of CORETT and
PROCEDE, as well as environment and social information generated from states and facilitate the
interchange of information between municipalities and the states.

StrategicEnvironment Assessment (SEA). A major recommendation of the EAs is the needto carry out
a Strategic EnvironmentalAssessment as part of the housing and urban program. The SEA i s intended as
an instrument to systematically evaluate housingand urban development policies in far greater depth than
possible in the rapid EA. The SEA focuses on an interactive process involving key policy makers and
stakeholders with the aim of identifying urban, housing and environmental linkages and ultimately to
inform decision makers to facilitate policy choices which better take environmental impacts into
consideration.   .

D.      Coverage of Safeguard Policies

Per Bank guidelines, a SECAL triggers only O.P. 4.01. Nonetheless, the EA addresses issues related to
all applicable Bank Safeguard Policies, including Natural Habitats, Cultural Property and Involuntary
Resettlement. Regarding the latter, even though the O.P. on Involuntary Resettlement i s not triggered, the
SEA will include discussion of current policies governing resettlement under the various housing and
urban development programs. As the HUSAL does not finance any direct investment, mitigation
measures for environment and resettlement are foreseen to be at the policy level, rather than a project-
specific level. That said, the project is dedicated to addressing environmental and social issues in an
open, transparent and constructive manner; and has full buy-in of the Mexican government in the effort to
buildcoherent,just and sustainablepolicies inthe urbanand housingsectors.

E.      Public consultation and disclosure

The EAs were submitted to the Bank and were reviewed by the project team, and found to cover all the
relevant topics required by the Bank Safeguard Policies. The documents have been made available to the
public on the Bank Infoshopand inthe main offices of the Mexico sectoral agencies -Conafovi (housing)
and SEDESOL (urban development). Public consultation i s a main activity of the SEA, as such many
opportunities will be presented to solicit public opinions on the environmental issues related to the
supported programs.




                                                 Page41

                                          ANNEX 4

                            MEXICO-FUND RELATIONS
                                (AsofJanuary 31,2004)

    I. MembershipStatus:JoinedDecember31,1945;ArticleVIII.

   11. GeneralResourcesAccount:                     SDR Million              % Quota
       Quota                                          2,585.80               100.00
       Fundholdings of currency                       2,05 9.32               79.64
       Reserveposition inFund                           526.53                20.36
       Financial transactionplantransfers (net)            87.00

 111.  SDR Department:                              SDR Million            % Allocation
       Net cumulative allocation                       290.02                100.00
       Holdings                                        291.64                100.56

  IV.  OutstandingPurchasesandLoans:                    None

   V.  FinancialArrangements:                            None

VI.    ProjectedObligationsto the Fund:              5 SDR 50,000 (annually 2004-2007)


VII.   ExchangeRateArrangement:Mexico has a floating exchangerate regime since
       December 22, 1994. Mexico maintains an exchangesystemthat i s free of restrictions
       on the making of payments andtransfers for current international transactions.

VIII.  Article IV Consultation:The last Article IV consultation was concluded by the
       Executive Board on October 15, 2003. The relevant staff report was SM/03/326.

    IX.    ResidentRepresentative:None.




                                            Page 48

                              &                w
                              0
                              m                v)
                                               m
                                              0




o ~ m - - - m ~ - u - m o m b m m m m ~ ~ ( ~ -
o o o o o o m o o o o m o m o m o o o o o m o
o o o o o o m o o o o m o m o m o o o o o m o
N N N N N N - N N N N - N - N - N N N N N - N

ANNEX 6: STATUSOFBANK GROUPOPERATIONS

                                                              M e x i c o
                                                     Statement o f IFC's
                                                 Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                       A s o f 9/30/2003




 F Y A p p r o v a l     C o m p a n y               L o a n   Equity    Quasi Partic  L o a n  Equity Quasi Partic
 1988/9 1/92/9 3/95 A pasco                                ?-I
                                                           I .L         0     0   28.8       7.2     0      0   28.8
                    1998 A y v i                         6.43           0     0       0    6.43      0      0       0
                       0 B B V A - B a n c o m e r     42.35            0     0       0  42.35       0      0       0
 1995199                 B a r i n g M exFnd                  0   1.89        0       0        0  1.78      0       0
                    1998 C I M A M e x i c o                  0      4.8      0       0        0   4.8      0       0
                    1998 C I M A Puebla                  6.75           0     0       0    3.25      0      0       0
 0/94                    C T A P V                       1.93           0  1.05       0    1.93      0   1.os       0
                       0 Chiapas-Propalma                     0   1.02        0       0        0  0.89      0       0
                    1997 Comercializadora                1.75           0  1.25     2.5    1.75       0  1.25     2.5
                    2001 Compartamos                          1   0.66        0       0        1  0.66      0       0
                    2003 Copamex                            75          0     0       0        0      0     0       0
                    2002 C o p p e l                        30          0     0       0       30      0     0       0
                    1999 Corsa                           8.36           3     0       0    8.36       3     0       0
                    2001 Ecomex                               5      1.5      0       0        3    1.5     0       0
                    2000 Educacion                         6.5          0     0       0      4.9      0     0       0
 0197                    Fondo C hiapas                       0   3.53        0       0        0  0.1 1     0       0
                    1998 F o r j a Monterrey             9.29           3     0   9.29     9.29       3     0   9.29
                    2001 G F N o r t e                      50          0     0       0        0      0     0       0
 199 1/96                G I B S A                     13.52            0     0  45.48    13.52       0     0  45.48
                    1993 G I D E S A                          0         0     0       0        0      0     0       0
 1996/00                 G I R S A                     38.57            0     0  5 1.43  38.57        0     0  51.43
                       0 Grupo B B V A                        0   2.67        0       0        0  2.67      0       0
                    1998 Grupo Calidra                        8         6     0       5        8      6     0       5
                    1989 Grupo F E M S A                      0   2.85        0       0        0  2.85      0       0
                    1997 Grupo M i n s a               13.14            0     0  18.78    13.14       0     0  18.78
 0192196199              G r u p o Posadas             23.68            0    10       0  23.68        0    10       0
                    1998 G r u p o Sanfandila            6.08           0     0   2.45     6.08       0     0   2.45
                    2000 Hospital A B C                     30          0     0      14   10.29       0     0   7.21
                    2000 I T R                              12          0     0   3.33        12      0     0   3.33
                    2000 Innopack                             0       15      0       0        0     15     0       0
                       0 Interoyal                            0   0.0 1       0       0        0  0.0 1     0       0
 2000/0 1                InverCap                             0   0.07        0       0        0  0.06      0       0
                    1998 M e r i d a I11               27.78            0     0  64.34   27.7 8       0     0  64.34
                    2003 M e x m a l                        10          0     0       0        6      0     0       0
 0/9 5/9 9               M e x p l u s Puertos                0    1.4 1      0       0        0  1.41      0       0
 1996/99/00/0 1                                               0         0  1.51       0        0      0  1.5 1
                    2003 Occidental H o...
                         NEMA K                                                                                     0
                                                            30          0     0      40       30      0     0     40
                       0 Occihol                              0   9.99        0       0        0  9.99      0       0
                    2003 P O L O M E X S.A.                   8         0     0       0        8      0     0       0
                    2000 Pan American                         0         9     0       0        0      9     0       0
                    2001 Plata                              10          0     0       0        8      0     0       0
                    2002 Puertas Finas                      13          0     0       0       13      0     0       0
                    2002 Qualita                             0       2.5    3.5       0        0    2.5   3.5       0
                    2000 R i o B r a v o               47.69            0     0  55.06   47.69        0     0  55.06
                    2000 Saltillo S.A.                 33.31            0     0  39.46    33.31       0     0  39.46
                    2000 Servicios                           9       1.9      0   8.33         9    1.9     0   8.33
                    2001 Su Casita                       1.76    10.62        0       0     1.76 10.62      0       0
                    1997 T M A                           1.98           0  2.75   6.86      1.98      0  2.75   6.86
                    1992 Toluca T o l l Road             1.25           0     0       0     1.25      0     0       0
                       0 Z N M e x i c o 11                  0        10      0       0        0  2.57      0       0
                    1998 Z N M x c E q t y F u n d           0    15.3        0       0        0   15.3     0       0

                   Total Portfolio:                  590.32    106.72     20.06 395.11 432.51    95.62  20.06 388.32




                                                               Page50

        ApprovalsPendingCommitment
                               Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
      1999 BANAMEX LRFI1          50      0    0        0
      2001 BBVA-Bancomer CL       100     0    0        0
      1998 Cima Hermosillo          7     0    0        0
      2003 Copamex                  7     0    0       60
      2001 Ecomex                 3.5     0    0        0
      2000 Educacion              3.2     0    0        0
      2001 GFNorte-CL             50      0    0     100
      2003 Mexmal                   0     0    5        0
      2003 Polomex                  2     0     0       0
      2003 RioBravoI11            50      0   20     170
      2003 Rio BravoIV            50      0   20     170
      2003 Tizayuca               25      0    10      30

Total PendingCommitment:        347.7     0   55     530




                          Page 51

                                          Mexico at a glance                                                                               9/3/03

                                                                           Latin      Upper-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                      America       middle-
                                                               Mexico  & Carib.      income      Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population, mid-year(millions)                                  100.9         527        331                     Life expectancy
GNIper capita (Atlas method, US$)                               5,920      3,280       5,040
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                 597.0      1,727       1,668    I                       T

Average annual growth, 199642
Population("A)                                                    1.4          1.5        1.2
Laborforce (%)                                                    2.4         2.2         1.8    GNI                                      Gross
                                                                                                 per                                    primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                            capita                               nrollment
Poverty (% of populationbelownabonalpoven'yline)
Urban population(% of totalpopulation)                             75          76         75                             I

Life expectancy at birth (years)                                   74          71         73                            i
Infant mortality(per 1,000live bilths)                             25          27         19
Child malnutrition(% of children under5)                            8            9                       Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source PA ofpopulabon)                  88          86         90    I
Illiteracy (% of populationage f5+)                                 8          11           7
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)               113         130        105                  Mexico
                                                                                                       ~




    Male                                                          114         131        106            ___-  Upper-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                        113         128        105

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                      1982       1992       2001       2002      Economic ratios"
GDP (US$billions)                                    1737       363 6      623.9       637.2
Grossdomestic InvestmentlGDP                          22 9       23 3        20.9       20.3
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                       I 53      152         27.4       27.2                          Trade
Grossdomestic savings/GDP                              27 9      183         18.6       18.3
Gross national savings/GDP                            21 5       166         17.9       18.0                            T
Current accountbalance/GDP                             -34       -6 7         -2.9       -2.2
Interest paymentdGDP                                    45        16           1.9        1.7    Domestic                         + Investment
Total debt/GDP                                        49 6       30.9        25.4       24.2     savings
Total debt service/exports                            52 3       33 8        26.3       18.8
Presentvalue of debtlGDP
Presentvalue of debtlexports
                                                                                                                   Indebtedness
                                       1982-92   1992-02         2001       2002    2002-06
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                         19          3 2      -0.3         0.9        3.8            -a     Mexico
GDP per capita                             -0 1         1 6      -1.8         -0.6       2.1                 ..Upper-middle-income group
Exportsof goods and sewices                 5.1        134       -36           1.4       5.6


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                      1982       1992       2001       2002      Growthof investmentand GDP (%)
(ss of GDP)                                                                                                                                      i
Agriculture                                             8.1       6.7         4.1        4.0
Industry                                              33.4       28.1        27.1       26.6
   Manufacturing                                      21.7       20.2        19.6       18.9
Services                                              58.4       65.2        68.7       69.4

Privateconsumption                                    61.6       71.8        69.6       70.0
General government consumption                        10.5        9.9        11.8       11.8
Importsof goods and services                          10.3       20.3        29.7       29.2                   -GDI             -GDP             I
                                                 1982-92      1992-02      2001        2002
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                            Growth of exports and imports (%)

Agriculture                                             0.7       1.7         3.3        -0.4
Industry                                                2.5       3.7        -3.5        0.0     20
   Manufacturing                                        3.0       4.3        -3.7        -0.6
Services                                                2.0       3.1         0.7         1.4    10


Privateconsumption                                      2.7       2.9         2.7         1.2    0

General government consumption                          2.1       1.5        -1.2        -1.3   -10
Gross domestic investment                               2.5       4.7        -5.2        0.5
Importsof goods and services                          11.2       11.8        -1.5         1.6


Note: 2002data are preliminaryestimates.
  The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country (in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing, the diamond will
    be incomplete.
                                                                    Page 52

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                            1982    1992                                                                     I
                                                             2001    2002
Domesticprices                                                                Inflation(%)
(% change)
Consumer prices                              58.9    15.5      6.4     5.0
Implicit GDP deflator                        60.9    14.4      6.5     4.6
Governmentfinance
(% of GDP,includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                              27.4    23.7    21.8     22.6
Current budget balance                       -6.0     5.0      1.9     0.2
Overallsurplus/deficit                      -14.1     1.4                    I
                                                              -0.7     -1.2                  GDPdeflalor -CPI                I

TRADE
                                            1982    1992    2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                 Exportandimportlevels(US$ mill.)
Total exports(fob)                        24,055   46,196 158,443  160.813
 Oil                                      16*477    8.307  12,799   14,475   / ~ .Tm
 Agriculture                               1,233    2,112   3,903    3,998
  Manufactures                             5,843   35,420 141,353  141,951
Total imports(cif)                        17,011   62,129 168,396  168,949
 Consumergoods                             1,517    7,744  19,752   21,178
  Intermediategoods                       10,991   42,830 126,149  126,778
 Capital goods                             4,502   11.556  22,496   20,992
Exportprice index (7995=1001                 127       91     103      106             96  91    98     99   W    01      02

Importpriceindex (i995=iOO)                   74       91     103      104                     Exports        Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                     171      100     101      102

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                           1982     1992    2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                Current accountbalanceto GDP (x)
Exportsof goodsand services               28,169   55,387 171,103  173,374
Importsof goods and services              22,841   73,617 184,614  185,419
Resourcebalance                            5,328  -18,230 -13,511  -12,045
Net income                               -12,261   -9,595 -13,835  -12,282
Netcurrenttransfers                        1,043    3,386   9,338   10,268
Current account balance                   -5,890  -24,438 -18,008  -14,058
Financingitems (net)                       2,316  26,184   25,347   19,851
Changesin net reserves                     3,574   -1,745  -7,339   -5,793     1
Memo:
Reservesincluding gold (US$ millions)        914   18,975  44,814  50,607
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)         5.64E-2      3.1     9.3      9.7

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1982     1992    2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                               /Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandinganddisbursed       86,081  112,315  158,291  153,923
  iBRD                                     2,692  11,966   10,883   10,596
  IDA                                          0       0        0        0
Total debt service                        15,684  20,751   48.729  35,254
  IBRD                                       328    1,874   2,178    2,093
  IDA                                          0       0        0        0
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                             76      14
  Official creditors                       1,577     615    -669     -432
  Privatecreditors                         6,391    -531    3,198   -3,932
  Foreigndirect investment                 1,655   4,393   25,334  13,627
  Porlfolioequity                             0    4,783      151    -104
World Bank program                                                                              F 116,503

  Commitments                               540    1,313     880    1,322
  Disbursements                             408    1,352     749     1,247    A IBRD                          E - Bilateral
                                                                              B IDA      D Other multilateral
                                                                                          -
                                                                                                              G- Short-term
                                                                                                              F. Private
  Principal repayments                       133     981    1,314    1,356    C IMF
                                                                               ---
  Netflows                                  275      371    -565     -108
  Interestpayments                           195     892     864      737
  Nettransfers                               80     -522   -1,429    -845


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                                    9/3/03




                                                            Page 53






