Report No. PID9605
Project Name                     Mexico-Federal District Urban...
Upgrading Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Other Urban Development
Project ID                       MXPE70371
Borrower(s)                      BANOBRAS
Implementing Agency
Address GOBIERNO DEL DISTRITO FEDERAL
Direccion de Equipamiento Urbano y
Proyectos, Secretario de Desarrollo
Urbano y Vivienda
Monterrey No. 206, Colonia Roma
Contact Person: Pablo Benlluire
Tel: 55-64-11-38
Fax: 52-64-63-74
Email: acteal@prodigy.net.mx
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                August 8, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 6, 2001
Projected Board Date             August 2, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector StructureUrban Planning Instruments. The Federal District's urban
planning system consists of a framework of laws and plans which provide
normative and strategic guidelines for urban settlements and procedures
for optimizing development of the city. Legally, the system relies on the
General Law on Human Settlements and the Law on Urban Development for the
Federal District. The system's urban plans constitute a basic framework
for the execution of public works and the consolidation of private
activities through land use regulations. These plans include the Program
for the Metropolitan Area of the Valley of Mexico (1998), the General
Urban Development Program of the Federal District (1996), Local Urban
Development Programs and the Partial Urban Development Programs. City of
Mexico Vision. As part of the 1996 planning process, GDF in coordination
with a wide range of stakeholders set out a vision for the City.
Principal aspects of the vision include stabilizing neighborhoods in
central area of the Federal District which have good accessibility, but
deteriorating basic infrastructure. Increasing the livability of the
center will capitalize on existing infrastructure in this area and reduce
some of the pressure for housing in unserviced areas of the periphery
(including the State of Mexico) and in environmental protection zones. The
City aims to reduce poverty, to improve low-income residential areas, to
preserve neighborhood identities, and to conserve and consolidate
archaeological, historical and cultural patrimony. Main Sector Issues.
Quality of life in many areas of the city is affected by a number of
issues, including the following: (i) deterioration of the city center and
increasing violence and loss of social networks; (ii) inequitable and
inefficient urban growth that forces poor families to settle in the



periphery or in ecological protection areas; (iii) lack of low-income
housing finance; and (iv) traditionally capital budgeting not closely
linked to the urban planning process nor open to community participation.
2. Objectives
The project proposes to revitalize poor neighborhoods of Mexico City by
establishing an area-based, comprehensive, transparent and participatory
planning process as the means of defining investment priorities in target
neighborhoods and increasing funds available to carry out identified
works. Specific objectives of the project are to: (i) Improve and
institutionalize the neighborhood planning and project implementation
process, specifically the quality of participation, intra-institutional
coordination and capacity to plan and implement urban upgrading from a
territorial standpoint; (ii) Rationalize the financing of works identified
in the neighborhood plans and increasing the amount of other financing
leveraged with public funds; and,(iii) Improve quality and quantity of
community level urban infrastructure and in particular the targeting and
poverty impact of works.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Sustained Bank participation in the sector will provide an enabling
environment, in terms of technical dialogue and financing, for
implementing new policy reforms in planning, urban works, and housing.
Bank participation facilitates the transfer of experiences from similar
projects worldwide. Developing institutional capacity, participatory
planning, public-private partnerships, and housing and services
investments are all areas where the Bank has considerable experience and
can add value to the proposed project.
4. Description
This project forms the first phase in a three phase programmatic loan.
The first phase will provide support for the following.
Component 1 - Participatory Planning and Project Implementation.
Technical assistance to improve the methodologies and strengthen the
institutional and community capacity to plan and implement neighborhood
level works, and development of additional neighborhood plans and
studies.
Component 2 - Low-income housing. Financing for housing that forms part
of the neighborhood plans and will focus on home improvement, and
expansion and replacement housing for inner-city tenements.
Component 3 - Local Urban Infrastructure. Financing of small urban works
emanating from the neighborhood plans, including basic services, community
infrastructure, improvement of public spaces, and historic restoration.
Component 4 - Project Management and Supervision.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               $20
IBRD                     $40
IDA
Total Project Cost       $60
6. Implementation
Borrower and Executing Agencies. The Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios
Publicos, SNC (BANOBRAS) is the borrower, and the United Mexican States
-2 -



will provide a guarantee for the loan. BANOBRAS will on-lend the Bank
funds to the Government of the Federal District. The GDF Secretary for
Housing and Urban Development (SEDUVI) will be responsible for project
coordination, specifically its General Direction for Urban Equipment and
Projects (DGEUP). Project Coordination, Execution and Flow of Funds.
The DGEUP will oversee and coordinate the project. The Secretary of
Finance/GDF, will transfer loan funds, among other funds, to the to be
created Urban Development Trust for financing of housing and urban
infrastructure investments. Delegaciones and line secretaries of the DF
will be eligible to apply for Trust financing of urban works and will be
responsible for their execution.    For low-income housing, the Trust may
provide direct up-front consumer subsidies (paid to the mortgage granting
institution), and grant funds to project developers for social
intermediation and technical support.    The Trust will only finance
housing and works that have been prioritized in approved neighborhood
plans. Implementation Period. APL will be implemented in three
overlapping phases of about 8 years overall: APL-1 (October 2001- October
2004), APL-2 (April 2004 - April 2007), APL-3 (October 2006 - October
2009).
7. Sustainability
Project sustainability will be strengthen by the high degree of community
participation in planning and in financing (cost-recovery) which will
creates a strong constituency for implementing and maintaining agreed upon
programs and works.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Sector IssuesClear rules for financing investments. Sustainability and
impact are increased through development of clear rules of the game for
housing and infrastructure investment subsidies for low-income areas.
Rules should take into account the beneficiary willingness and capacity to
pay, and minimize distortions in the markets, such as private housing
financing. Local management. Decentralization of investment
responsibility to the lowest level possible increases accountability and
typically improves service quality. Decentralization of basic urban
services and infrastructure provision poses several important challenges,
the most urgent being the need to increase the capacity of local agencies
to manage these activities. Cost recovery. In recent years, many
projects have demonstrated that the poor have a high willingness to pay
and that at least partial cost recovery is possible from investments in
low-income communities. Community Participation. Community participation
in planning and implementation is one way to ensure that the most
appropriate infrastructure and service options are prioritized and
sustainable. Community participation facilitates cost recovery and
accountability of government agents.    Housing Finance.   High levels of
subsidization, emphasis on finished housing, and subsidized interest rates
have limited the overall impact of scarce public funds, crowded-out
mortgage supply by market-based lenders, and resulted in a poor targeting
of subsidies. Integrated Planning Framework. Investments in urban areas,
particularly center city neighborhoods, entail spatial externalities in
terms of land use, economic activity, and transportation. As a result, it
is important that urban investments are coherent with a larger planning
framework.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
- 3-



10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Environmental Impacts. It is anticipated that the
project will generate substantial benefits to the urban and surrounding
natural environment of the DF. Any environmental impacts in the first
phase of the project, consisting of urban renewal/revitalization programs
in fully urbanized central areas of the city (housing improvement,
historic preservation, parks, etc.), are expected to be absent or low, and
highly localized due to the small-scale nature of sub-projects. No
resettlement is anticipated in the first phase of the project. This phase
does not include major civil works, but rather rehabilitation and
improvement of existing basic infrastructure and services.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Anna Wellenstein
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October
20, 2000.
-4-



