                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                      Report No: 32559




                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                           ON A

                                          LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US $100.00 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                            UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                         FOR AN

              AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND URBAN POVERTY

                          SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                                    (Loan 7229-ME)

                                      June 28, 2005




Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective)

                        Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                                  US$ = MX$
                             US$1.00 = MX$ 10.98

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 - December 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




BANSEFI               Bank of National Savings and Financial Services
CONAFOVI              National Housing Commission
CONAVI                National Council of Housing
EA                    Environmental Assessment
FONAEVI               National Fund for Low-Cost Housing
FONHAPO               Low-Income Housing Fund
FOVI                  Financial Housing Aid Fund
FOVIM                 Housing Fund for Teachers Union
FOVISSSTE             Housing Fund for the Social Security Services Institute of the
                      Public Workers
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
GOM                   Government of Mexico
HUSAL                 Programmatic Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Sector
                      Adjustment Loan
HUTAL                 Housing and Urban Technical Assistance Loan
INFONAVIT             Institute for National Housing Fund for Public Workers
ISSFAM                Institute of Social Security for the Mexican Armed Forces
LICONSA               Industrial Milk Conasupo
NHDP                  National Housing Development Policy
OREVIS                State Housing Agencies
PET                   Temporary Employment Program
PROSAVI               Special Program for Housing Credit and Subsidies




                         Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                      Country Director:      Isabel Guerrero
                       Sector Manager:       John Henry Stein
        Task Team Leader/ Task Manager:      Abhas Kumar Jha




                                        2

RMBS        Residential Mortgage Backed Securities
SEA         Strategic Environmental Assessment
SEDESOL     Secretariat of Social Development
SHCP        Secretariat of the Finance and Public Credit
SHF         Federal Mortgage Corporation
SOFOLES     Financing Societies with Limited Purposes
UDI         Investment Unit
VIVAH       Savings and Subsidies Program for Housing
VIVRURAL    Rural Housing Program




                             3

                                  MEXICO
           AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND URBAN POVERTY
                      SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN



                                 CONTENTS



1. Program Data                                                     6
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                    7
3. Program Description                                              7
4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs                            9
   A. Macroeconomic Framework                                       9
   B. National Housing Policy and Institutional Framework           9
   C. Housing Subsidies                                             11
   D. Housing Credit and Household Savings                          12
   E. Urban Real Property Registries and Rights                     14
   F. National Urban Policy, Slum Upgrading and                     15
       Institutional Strengthening
   G. Low and Moderate Income Land Development                      16
   H. Disaster Prevention and Management                            17
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome               17
6. Bank and Borrower Performance                                    18
7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series  18
Annex 1 Policy Matrix                                               20
Annex 2 Comments from the Borrower and SHF                          29




                                      4

               Table 1 ­ Summary Lexicon of Affordable Housing and Urban Development in Mexico

BANSEFI. This federal institution was created in 2001 in order to promote household savings, help popular finance institutions adjust and prosper
under the new Law for Popular Savings and Credit that phases in requirements between 2001 and 2004, and coordinate government support to
financial institutions that focus on serving low/moderate-income households ("popular financial institutions").


CONAFOVI. Formed in 2001, this federal institution - a dependency of SEDESOL that also reports to the President ­ develops housing policy and
coordinates national housing institutions, particularly the federal housing institutions (SHF and FONHAPO), but also INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE.


CONAVI. Created under the same presidential decree as that of CONAFOVI , this organization serves as a forum for public and private-sector input
into housing policy and programs, and is managed by and reports to CONAFOVI.


CORETT. A dependency of SEDESOL, this organization has lead responsibility for regularizing informally-urbanized ejidos, and has operated on a
massive scale. The process involves purchase of ejido land by the federal government (expropriation), regularizing title, and sale to the existing
occupants.


Ejido land. Created by Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution, this form of communal property (often termed "social land") was intended to protect
rural farming communities and is regulated by a complex set of federal laws and institutions. With urbanization, two-thirds of the land on the fringe of
Mexico's cities now consists of ejidos and constitutes the main source of developable parcels for new housing.


FONHAPO. Historically, this institution has served as the federal government's main support to low-income housing. Poor repayment on below
market-rate loans made by FONHAPO to state and local housing institutes that on-lent these funds to low-income households led to this organization's
near bankruptcy, from which it has now recovered. A presidential decree has given the organization ­ along with FONAEVI ­               the mandate to
develop a unified housing subsidy system. Currently, FONHAPO's main program is Tu Casa.


FONAEVI. A division of FONHAPO, this entity will receive, account for, and disburse funds under the unified housing subsidy system, and
currently performs this function for Tu Casa.


FOVI. FOVI had the mandate to develop market-rate mortgage finance as a second-tier institution until the creation of SHF in 2002, which has
assumed this role. FOVI continues as a trust within SHF with a number of specific functions mainly related to covering liabilities created during its
former lending operation.


FOVISSSTE. This institution gets funding from a compulsory contribution of 5% of the salary of federal public-sector workers. It then uses these
resources to extend mortgage finance for housing at below-market interest rates graduated to favor lower-income households. FOVISSSTE accounts
for around 14% of all mortgage finance. In addition to home lending, FOVISSSTE forms part of the pension fund for its contributing workers.


INFONAVIT. Governed by representatives of formally-employed workers, employers, and government, this institution gets funding from a governed
compulsory contribution of 5% of the salary of private-formal sector workers and applies these monies to extend mortgage finance for housing at
below-market interest rates graduated to favor lower-income households. INFONAVIT accounts for around 60% of all mortgage finance. In addition
to home lending, INFONAVIT forms part of the pension system for its contributing workers.


Low-income household. A household earning 3 minimum wages (currently US$ 375 per month) and below.


Minimum Wage. A measure used for social programs including housing programs. Currently, one minimum wage is approximately US$ 125 per
month.


Moderate-income household. A household earning above 3 minimum wages to 6 minimum wages (currently US$ 375 to US$ 655 per month).


Prosavi. A subsidy program started by FOVI and now operated by FONHAPO that provides an upfront grant (currently, about US$ 5,000).
Households earning 4 to 6 minimum wages join this grant with a mortgage loan (currently from SOFOLES that receive their funding from SHF and
that channel the Prosavi grant to specific projects) and a down payment in order to purchase an expandable unit (around 40 m2; price: US$ 13,900)
built by developers.


SEDESOL. The Social Development Secretariat holds overall responsibility for government action in urban development.


SHF. Created in 2002 as the successor to FOVI, the Federal Mortgage Society enjoys backing of the faith and credit of federal government for 12
years in order to lead the development of primary and secondary market-rate home lending. SHF operates as a second tier-finance institution that
provides liquidity and guarantees to first-tier lenders (currently, mainly the SOFOLES). SHF accounts for around 11% of total mortgage finance.


SOFOLES Hipotecarias. Following the withdrawal of banks in 1995, these specialized lenders have become Mexico's main source of private home
lending. These institutions can make loans and raise debt on capital markets, but cannot accept deposits from the public.


Tu Casa (formerly "Vivah"). A subsidy program operated by FONHAPO that delivers a federal grant (currently about US$ 3,000) that state and local
governments must match ­ typically with a serviced lot. The local government contracts the construction of a basic unit (up to 30 m2) that households
earning 2.5 minimum wages and below purchase by making a down payment and, sometimes, their self-help labor in the construction.




                                                                               5

                     Simplified Implementation Completion Report
             For Programmatic Development Policy Lending Operations


Operation ID: P070371               Operation Name: Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty
                                    Programmatic Sector Adjustment Loan
Team Leaders: Anna Wellenstein, TL Unit: LCSFU
Bruce Ferguson, Abhas Kumar Jha
                                    Report Date: June 28, 2005

1. Program Data

Name:                    Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty L/C           7229-ME
                         Programmatic Sector Adjustment Loan Number:
Country/Department:      MEXICO                                  Region:    Latin America and
                                                                            the     Caribbean
                                                                            Region

Sector/subsector:        Other social service (35%), Housing fin & realty (25%), Central Govt
                         Admin (20%), Sub-Natl Govt Admin (10%), Law and Justice (10%)
Theme:                  Access to Urban Services and Housing (P), Municipal finance (P),
                        Personal and property rights (P), Poverty Strategy, analysis and
                        monitoring (S), Other public sector governance (S)

KEY DATES
                Original             Revised/Actual
PCD/PD:         08/21/2000           08/21/2000
Appraisal:      02/16/2004           02/17/2004
Approval:       06/08/2004           06/08/2004
Effective:      12/17/2004           12/17/2004
Closing:        12/31/2004           12/31/2004



Borrower/Implementing Agency:        United Mexican States/CONAFOVI, SHF, SEDESOL
Other Partners:



STAFF                      Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                                David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Isabel Guerrero                           Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager:            John Henry Stein                          John Henry Stein
Team Leader at ICR:        Abhas Kumar Jha
ICR Primary Author:        Abhas Kumar Jha, Angelica
                           Nunez




                                               6

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

 Outcome:                                         S
 Sustainability:                                  L
 Institutional Development Impact:                SU
 Bank Performance:                                S
 Borrower Performance:                            S

                                                 QAG (if available)              ICR
           Quality at Entry:                                                     S
           Operation at Risk at Any Time:        NO

3. Program Description

The goal of the Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Programmatic Sector Adjustment Loan
(HUSAL) is to support the Government's efforts to improve the living conditions of the poor and
strengthen access of low-income people to real assets, notably housing and serviced land. The
Program's objectives are listed below:

·      Develop a sound national policy and institutional framework for housing and urban
development;
·      Design and put in place a consistent and unified housing subsidy policy that facilitates
access of low/moderate-income families to housing and leverages household savings and private
credit finance;
·      Strengthen the housing credit and savings systems, and move these systems down-market;
·      Strengthen urban real property registries and rights;
·      Increase the supply of urban land and access by the poor and improve this market's
function;
·      Coordinate physical and social investments to systematically upgrading poor
neighborhoods; and
·      Better prevent and manage the impacts of natural disasters.

The HUSAL Program was structured to support a subset of the GoM's medium-term reform
agenda through three programmatic sector adjustment loans HUSAL I, II, III planned to be
disbursed in 2004, 2005 and 2006 respectively (depending on the pace of reform implementation)
and an accompanying technical assistance loan (HUTAL). The Program's policy matrix was
structured to include actions in seven policy areas, each responding to one of the Program's
objective, plus a macroeconomic monitoring element. Table 1 below describes the Program's
medium term objective, supported by the three Bank loans. The specific set of actions to be
accomplished by each loan, and the objectives and accompanying HUTAL actions are included in
the detailed policy matrix in Annex 1 (key actions associated with HUSAL II and III are
presented in bold).




                                                   7

                                    HUSAL: Medium Term Program Outcomes

           Policy Area              Implementing                Expected outcome by component
                                      Agency

1.Macroeconomic Framework              SHCP           · Macroeconomic       stability supports achievement of
                                                      program objectives

2. National Housing Policy and       CONAFOVI         · National     housing policy established, along with
Institutional Framework                               supporting institutional framework in order to reach the
                                                      Government's overall goal of producing 750,000 new
                                                      housing solutions per year by 2006
                                                      · States and localities increasingly subsidize housing
                                                      through grants rather than below-market-rate loans
                                                      · Strategy document developed for rationalization of role
                                                      of INFONAVIT

3. Housing Subsidies                 CONAFOVI         · Federal housing subsidies unified
                                                      · Greater equity, efficiency, fiscal sustainability, &
                                                      leveraging of credit and household savings demonstrated
                                                      by federal housing system
                                                      · Beneficiary selection system widely used by housing
                                                      agencies to register and screen subsidy applicants

4. Housing Credit and Household         SHF           · Greater funding, lending, affordability & down-market
Savings                                               penetration demonstrated by the housing finance system
                                                      · Differences in effective interest rates among mortgage
                                                      lenders decrease
                                                      · Loans increasingly accompanied by home counseling
                                                      · Housing and mortgage risk data used by private-sector
                                                      · Access increased of low-moderate-income households
                                                      to home credit for low-cost housing solutions
                                                      · Greater share of low-moderate-income families enrolled
                                                      in formal-sector savings programs or with savings accounts

5. Urban Real Property Registries    CONAFOVI         · Time required to register a mortgage lien in pilot states
and Rights                                            reduced substantially

6. National Urban Policy, Slum       SEDESOL          · National     urban   policy   established,   along   with
Upgrading      and    Institutional                   supporting institutional framework
Strengthening                                         · Increased efficiency of slum upgrading under Habitat as
                                                      measured     by   greater    community    participation  &
                                                      investment planning, and improved sequencing of
                                                      investment.
7. Low and Moderate Income           SEDESOL          · Costs and time required for land development reduced.
Land Development                                      · Increased scale of and private-sector involvement in
                                                      low-moderate-income land development

8.    Disaster   Prevention    and   SEDESOL          · Vulnerability to natural disaster events is reduced
Management                                            significantly in Mexico's major cities




                                                    8

The first operation, HUSAL I, was designed to include the necessary actions as a set of
first steps to facilitate the implementation of policies, plans and instruments in a selective
and flexible manner, in order to move Mexico closer to achieving the Program's medium
term objectives and outcomes.

4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

Prior to board approval the GoM completed the following key actions associated to HUSAL I in
the policy matrix. These are outlined below (in italics) for each component.

A. Macroeconomic Framework.

     Prior Action:
     ·       Maintenance of sound macroeconomic framework consistent with policy objectives and
     programs described in the Letter of Development Policy"

This component is rated Satisfactory. The GoM remained committed to macroeconomic stability
during 2004. Policy continues its focus on price stability as a precondition to economic growth
coupled with tight fiscal policy (year to year inflation in 2004 was 4.7%). The gradual decline in
inflation over the past years has contributed to a substantial decrease in domestic market interest
rates. Mortgage interest rates (nominal) declined from an average of 15% in 2004 for a 25 year
mortgage, to 12% in early 2005. A number of reform measures taken over the last few years has
resulted in the impressive growth of the structured finance sector in Mexico including residential
mortgage backed securities (RMBS) and in 2004 established the country as the leading market in
Latin America for the first time.1 In 2004 the market experienced public local and cross-border
transactions totaling approximately 111.1 billion Mexican pesos (MX$; approximately US$9.9
billion), of which about 30% were Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities (RMBS).2

B. National Housing Policy and Institutional Framework

     Prior Actions:
     · The Government has approved and presented the National Housing Development Policy,
    strengthened transparency through presentation of annual report on policy implementation
    and provision of information on related programs to the public through the internet.
     · The Government has harmonized and defined the roles of federal housing agencies:
    CONAFOVI is the overall coordinator and policy body; CONAVI serves as a consultative
    forum for public and private stakeholders; SHF takes the lead in developing market-rate
    primary and secondary mortgage markets; FONHAPO is in charge of housing subsidies; and
    FONAEVI received, accounts for, and disburses housing subsidy funds.
     · Government has completed an environmental assessment (EA) of the housing sector.




     1  e.g the new Mexican insolvency statute and the amendments to the laws governing trusts provided clarity on true sale and non-
consolidation principles (2000), the new Mexican insolvency statute and the amendments to the laws governing trusts provided clarity
on true sale and non-consolidation principles amendments to securities laws and regulations were enacted to incorporate new types of
securities and to accommodate more streamlined structures for asset securitization (2001), the amendments to securities regulations to
address fundamental issues such as disclosure and governance (2003)

2 http://www2.standardandpoors.com/servlet/Satellite?pagename=
sp/sp_article/ArticleTemplate&c=sp_article&cid=1115667040135&newsletter=Y


                                                                9

This component is rated Satisfactory based on the following results:

National Housing Development Policy (NHDP). The NHDP addressed the lack of coordination
in the housing sector identified in project preparation. Since its publication, CONAFOVI has
been the agency responsible for monitoring results, following-up on the agreed sector goals and
providing information to the general public. As a result, transparency in the sector has been
strengthened. The agency's website (http://www.conafovi.gob.mx/) provides bimonthly
information on loans and subsidies granted by agency and program by geographic area. In
addition, an on-line database provides historical series for some housing variables. As a
forthcoming step to enhance the quality of the information provided by CONAFOVI, the sector
could benefit from expanding the quantity and quality of variables reported; from the existing
data on number and total value of the loans to incorporate real and financial data. This could
facilitate the formulation of policies and the evaluation of existing programs.

Institutional Framework. As mentioned, previous to the institutional framework supported by
HUSAL, no agency existed with the responsibility for housing sector policy. To address this
issue, the GoM undertook a much needed institutional reform to harmonize and define the roles
of several housing agencies.

CONAFOVI, as the overall sector coordinator and policy body has been at the centre of the
policy sector reform. CONAFOVI has successfully managed the coordination of the National
Plan with most of the 32 states through: (i) creation of State Housing Councils, (ii) subscribing
co-financing agreements for the modernization of registries (iii) implementation of programs to
reduce indirect costs associated with construction and titling, and (iv) dissemination of best-
practice information on building standards and titling documentation. As a policy body, the
government mandate given to CONAFOVI envisages the agency setting the agenda and pace of
the ambitious housing policy reform in Mexico across the National Housing Institutions
(ONAVIS). After a strong start with the preparation of the National Plan, the agency's capacity
to mandate change across the different institutions involved has been hindered, partially due to:

(i)       ONAVIS are not formally accountable to CONAFOVI. This limits the agency's ability
          to enforce agreements reached with other sector entities. SHF is a development bank and
          reports to SHCP, the Central Bank and the Banking Commission. FONHAPO officially
          reports to SEDESOL, but in practice functions more or less autonomously. For the case
          of INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE, their large market share (pension fund/housing
          lender) and their independency from public policy and budgetary management limits
          CONAFOVI's room for driving reform.

(ii)      Lack of an adequate sector data to conduct an in-depth analysis and evaluate sector
          performance, coupled with the lack of a core team of technical specialists within
          CONAFOVI limits CONAFOVI's ability to promote reform in the sector in the short
          term.

SHF was created in 2001 to serve as a catalyst in the development of the primary and secondary
mortgage market in Mexico. It provides long term funding to financial intermediaries and hedges
the inherent interest rate risk. SHF cannot lend directly to the public and its role as second tier
bank for mortgage lenders is to cease by 2009, as SHF establishes itself in the provision of
mortgage insurance, timely payment guarantees on bonds and a cover against real minimum wage
depreciation (to allow homeowners to have payments linked to minimum wage inflation). One of
SHF's primary objectives is to facilitate the flow of long-term investor capital to the housing



                                                 10

industry through securitization. Since 1996 under FOVI and SHF Mexican SOFOLES have lent
about US$ 6.1 billion in residential loans with a delinquency of less than 2.5%.

FONAEVI / FONHAPO. The NHDP established FONAEVI as the financial agent to manage
federal subsidy funds for the housing programs. During 2004 the GoM channeled through
FONAEVI MX$ 1,600 millions to be applied to housing subsidies. FOHNAPO as the agency in
charge of operating this fund has been responsible for the operation of several direct lending and
several second-tier programs and the Tu Casa housing subsidy program. In addition, in 2004 SHF
transferred the operation of the PROSAVI subsidy program to FONHAPO. Further work remains
to be done regarding the institutional reengineering of FONHAPO as described in the NHDP in
order to strengthen the agency's capacity to design, implement and evaluate housing subsidy
programs.

Environmental Assessment. The environmental assessment completed by CONAFOVI and
supported by HUSAL I provided the stepping stone to support environmental reforms in the
sector. To continue the work in this area, CONAFOVI created a working group within the agency
to prepare "green sector guidelines" to be published during 2005 and distributed by the agency as
sector best-practice. CONAFOVI is also preparing three pilot projects to assess the different
alternatives to green housing developments. It is expected that HUSAL II will build upon this
results towards implementation of an action plan for environmental reforms in the housing sector.

C. Housing Subsidies

       Prior Actions:
       · The Government has mandated a unified housing subsidy program to be administered
       by FONHAPO/FONAEVI that is efficient, progressive and equitable as established
       through presidential decree.
       · CONAFOVI has set up an on-going working group that includes all main agencies
       involved in housing subsidy and/or administration at the national level in order to
       consolidate objectives and programs for the unified housing subsidy program and its
       continuous refinement.
       · FONHAPO has established a database of beneficiaries of Tu Casa/Vivah.

This component is rated Unsatisfactory. Completed government actions on subsidy policy, the
performance of the working group and the quality and utilization of the beneficiary data base
have been insufficient to support reform in the direction of the final Program outcomes.

FONHAPO/FONAEVI mandate. The national sector plan mandated FONHAPO to administer
both upfront housing subsidy program - Tu Casa and PROSAVI - as a first step towards
achieving a unified housing subsidy program with improved equity and progressivity. Efforts to
support these programs have not had the expected results. The number of PROSAVI subsidies
decreased to 9800 in 2004 due mostly to administrative delays. The number of direct subsidies
delivered through Tu Casa decreased from 145,000 in 2003 to 122,000 in 2004. Although Tu
Casa has not been subject to an evaluation, several reasons could have contributed to this decline,
including: (i) late publication of the program rules; rules were published in May for the 2004
fiscal year, (ii) rigidity of the program rules and lack of differentiation of program requirements
for different income segments within the overall target group, and (iii) high opportunity cost for
local housing counterparts, as local housing institutes have to contribute a loan or a grant for a
serviced lot.




                                                 11

FONHAPO's new mandate was to be a first step towards later reforms to harmonize the federal
housing subsidy system. To achieve this goal, further actions under HUSAL include FONHAPO
withdrawing from direct lending, (i) decreasing the subsidy amount of both federal and state/local
government, and (ii) eliminating double-dipping, amongst other reforms. No steps have been
taken in this direction.

An important element hindering the sector's ability to reform is the lack of a reliable and
comprehensive housing database and a rigorous and independent subsidy evaluation mechanism
to adequate subsidy programs to demand. Although the current policy matrix does not include
this action under HUSAL II, the second operation could address this situation to support reform
in this component.

Subsidy working group. In January 2004 a group of Mexican officials from CONAFOVI and
SHF attended a subsidy seminar held at the Bank. This was the first unofficial meeting of a
working group that was later formalized by CONAFOVI in April 2004. The group members
included three officials from CONAFOVI and three from SHF with the mandate to consolidate
and refine the existing subsidy programs. Unfortunately, by December 2004 there is no record of
the later sessions held after that first seminar meeting. The leadership in this group was lost with a
change in key government officials soon after its creation. Also the lack of clear objectives made
continuity and agreements difficult to reach. The mechanism of a working group has the
advantage of creating consensus and building ownership amongst institutions prior to reform,
such outcome requires that participants from all main agencies that operate subsidy schemes
should be included and that a clear working agenda for decision making guides the deliberations.
As a consequence, no progress was made on the unification of the subsidy programs.

Beneficiary database. FONHAPO established a beneficiary database of Tu Casa/Vivah
programs in February 2004. The number of beneficiaries in the database in December 2004 was
266,956. In theory, the system now allows web-based information sharing with SHF and
SEDESOL, although no other agency is taking advantage of the information provided. Further
actions include the integration of INFONAVIT and FOVISSTE beneficiaries as described in the
policy matrix.

D. Housing Credit and Household Savings

       Prior Actions:
       · Congress has approved a set of reforms that strengthen the legal framework at the
       national level for mortgages (credito hipotecario), allowing adjudication of defaulted
       mortgage liens in federal courts, simplifying documentation required to prove the existence
       of the lien, and allowing for extra-judicial foreclosure of collateral trusts.
       · Congress has approved a new financial transparency law related to mortgage loans,
       providing standardized, clear and comparative information and contracts to borrowers.
       SHF has issued rules for the licensing of property appraisers, and the calculation of costs
       disclosed for residential mortgage loans.
       · SHF has designed and put in place a database for mortgage risk assessment, and the
       private sector is contributing information on loans.
       · SHF has expanded its products to include financing and guarantees both in UDIs and
       pesos.
       · Bansefi has launched savings programs for low- and moderate- income households
       linked to lending by INFONAVIT and to Fonhapo's Tu Casa subsidy program.




                                                  12

Based on the results achieved, this component is rated highly satisfactory:

Actions included in HUSAL I under this component were designed to (i) improve the efficiency
and increase the capacity of the existing home lending institutions, (ii) leverage market-orientated
resources mainly through guarantees, and (iii) develop adequate systems in order to take
advantage of the ample opportunity for secondary market development to contribute to the
Program's outcomes.

Regulatory Reform. Several factors have contributed to the important increase in investment in
the housing sector for the period 2002-2004 (See Table 2). Reasons for this increase are the
prolonged macro-economic stability, the decrease in interest rates and micro-economic and
regulatory reforms. The reforms approved by Congress in 2002 and 2003 and supported under
HUSAL I allowed adjudication of defaulted mortgage liens in federal courts, simplified
documentation to prove the existence of the lien, allowed for extra-judicial foreclosure of
collateral trusts, increased transparency and regulated licensing of property appraisers. These
have contributed to the mobilization of private resources, increasing liquidity in the market. This
is evidenced by the fact that in January 2005 SHF undertook the country's first transaction of
mortgage-backed securities on the secondary market. SHF sold 10 million pesos in mortgage-
backed securities to the bank Santander Serfin.


                                                  TABLE 2: Investment by Institution

                                                            (thousands of MXP)
                                                                                          % Change    % Change
           Institution                     2002              2003            2004
                                                                                          2002-2003   2003-2004

  INFONAVIT                                  51,308,721      55,915,911       61,059,700     9.0         9.2

  SHF    1/                                  10,196,253      14,079,095       20,517,900    38.1        45.7

  FOVISSSTE                                   3,561,720      17,494,981       14,595,300    391.2       -16.6

  FONHAPO           2/                           996,080       1,152,786       1,678,500    15.7        45.6

  Private Banks &
                                              5,956,909      10,833,121       23,083,500    81.9        113.1
  SOFOLES         3/


  OREVIS                                      3,898,300        3,167,103       2,874,200    -18.8       -9.2

  Other    4/                                 1,943,876      12,064,460        9,792,200    520.6       -18.8

                Total                        77,861,858     114,707,456      133,601,300    47.3        16.5

  1/ Includes PROSAVI

  2/ Includes Tu Casa and FONHAPO's direct lending

  3/ Includes loans by SOFOLES with own resources

  4/ Includes PET, ViVRural, PEMEX, CFE, BANOBRAS, ISSFAM, HABITAT and FOVIM
  Source: CONAFOVI



Credit-risk data base. In 2003 SHF designed and set in place a database for mortgage risk
assessment as a response to the lack of information that was preventing an adequate measurement
of risk exposure by market participants. Variables incorporated in to the database included: (i)
financial characteristics of the loan, (ii) main characteristics of the unit, (iii) income, socio-
demographic and credit history details of the borrower, and (iv) time and costs of adjudication in
cases of delinquency. To date, the database includes information for all the peso-denominated
operations undertaken by SHF and around 65% of the UDI denominated loans. As a next step,
SHF will make the information available for market participants. Several studies included in




                                                                      13

HUTAL will help to address some of the strategic and technical questions that will arise from
making the database publicly available.

Guarantees. SHF continues to provide guarantees in UDI and pesos, successfully advancing the
development of primary and secondary Mexican mortgage markets (See table 3).


                                         Table 3: Number of Guarantees by SHF

                                                                  2003       2004

                                          Pari-Passu                11,383     2,867

                                           First Loss               41,766    30,859

                                        Delinquency  1
                                                                              26,723

                                             Total                  55,152    62,453
                     1/ Starts in July 2004

                     Source: SHF



BANSEFI savings program. BANSEFI established a savings program linked to lending by
INFONAVIT and TU CASA (VIVIENDAHORRO). The program supports households to save
up to MX$ 8,000 (the mandatory savings contributions under the TU CASA program). Up to this
date, 3,500 beneficiaries are registered to the Program. Through this program BANSEFI provides
FONHAPO with useful information identifying demand for Tu Casa throughout the country.
FONHAPO then coordinates with the local housing institutions the counterpart funding for each
beneficiary. Since demand is disperse, this represents some challenges for FONHAPO's ability to
work with the local counterparts. A future challenge of this program will be to create sufficient
volume of demand in urban areas, most likely through increased promotion of the program to
facilitate FONHAPO's ability to negotiate with the local institutes who in turn need to provide
the counterpart funding.

Other Programs. SHF is taking additional steps to increase the availability of housing finance:

    a. Savings programs linked to housing finance. SHF launched in March 2004
         AHORRASIF ­ SHF's savings program linked to housing finance. SHF intends to
         expand the program and has increased the staff to promote the program amongst financial
         institutions and to enhance the database of subscribers.
    b. Microfinance pilot projects. SHF is moving towards implementing two microfinance
         pilot projects as part of the efforts to provide finance low-cost housing solutions to low-
         moderate income households. It is expected that these pilots will be in operation as part
         of the actions included for HUSAL II.

E. Urban Real Property Registries and Rights

       Prior Action:
       · Two state governments have started to implement property registry modernization
       programs with support from CONAFOVI.

This component is rated as satisfactory.




                                                         14

The first loan under HUSAL supported CONAFOVI's property registry modernization program
in two states. CONAFOVI and the signing state agree through a "convenio" to co-fund relevant
studies and reengineering processes. Although it is too early to report on results for these (the
programs are still under execution), the actions included in each convenio are likely to translate
into a reduction in the time required to register a mortgage lien. CONAFOVI will soon sign
agreements with five more states. As envisaged in the PD, the Bank is working closely with
CONAFOVI to incorporate new elements into the convenios that will further enhance the scope
and depth of reform.

F. National Urban Policy, Slum Upgrading and Institutional Strengthening

      Prior Actions:
      · The Government has approved and presented the National Urban Development and
      Territorial Planning Policy and strengthened transparency through presentation of an
      annual report on policy implementation and provision of information on related programs
      to the public through the internet.
      · SEDESOL poverty mapping has been completed and used for targeting social
      programs (Habitat, Oportunidades, Liconsa).
      · SEDESOL has integrated its physical and social interventions in urban communities
      under a single umbrella slum-upgrading program (Habitat), as approved and funded by
      Congress.
      · Government has modified its regulations to expand its major social program
      (Oportunidades) from a rural focus to include urban areas, reflecting the growing levels of
      urban poverty.
      · SEDESOL has completed an environmental assessment (EA) of the urban sector.

The completion of the activities under this component is rated satisfactory based on the
following items that have set the basis for the achievement of the program outcomes.

· Poverty Maps. The poverty mapping completed by SEDESOL under HUSAL I continues to
    serve as the basis for targeting of SEDESOL's main social programs. This methodology uses
    a comprehensive set of 15 variables to measure asset poverty in order to account for non-
    income related variables that influence the poverty status. The medium-term objective of
    HUSAL for this item is to make this methodology available to local governments, along with
    relevant training to strengthen local government planning and priorizing, which is being done
    through the recently established HABITAT local agencies.

· The National Urban Development and Territorial Planning Policy leads the actions of the
    sector agencies at federal and local level. Substantial efforts have been done by SEDESOL to
    develop a public information centre that will make all the sector information that is expected
    to be available to the general public via internet by mid 2005.

· The HABITAT Program now integrates physical and social interventions in the urban
    sector. Through this program all slum-upgrading interventions have to be prioritized to poor
    areas (as defined by asset poverty), request local counterpart funding and co-responsibility
    and have clear allocating rules. SEDESOL has established local HABITAT agencies in each
    city and has developed a methodology to incorporate community participation under the
    HABITAT Program which is expected to be fully operational under HUSAL II. Habitat has
    moved rapidly up to scale, supporting 818 barrios with MX$1,740 million in financing in
    2004. To reach its full potential the next phase should focus on improving the quality of the



                                                 15

    program in areas including: (i) more emphasis on sustainability through linking investments
    to local development plans; (ii) building capacity of municipal partners; and (iii) more
    emphasis on monitoring and impact evaluation as the program has expanded in scope over
    the last two years. In particular, the link between urban upgrading and housing through the
    program could be strengthened. During 2004, less than 1% of the total number of projects
    financed belongs to the land available for housing and urban development modality. All of
    these actions have co-financed solely land reserve acquisition. The new operational rules for
    2005 incorporate new mechanisms to address this problem, including: (a) the condition that
    acquired land has to be destined to the progressive production of serviced lots, (b) the local
    government's contribution can be structured in the form of a loan, and, (c) lots should at least
    have vehicle access, water supply, electricity any form of sanitation solution.

· Environmental Assessment. SEDESOL completed an EA for the urban sector prior to board
    approval of HUSAL I. Several of the main policy recommendations derived from the study
    are already being addressed. SEDESOL is working jointly with the Secretariat of
    Environment and Natural Resources in four core areas to develop a new methodology to
    prepare land plans incorporating environmental criteria which would substitute the existing
    land planning methodology and standardize environmental and urban impact assessments.
    Also, environmental criterion has been incorporated into the HABITAT component that co-
    finances land planning. Further work is envisaged through HUSAL II and III under this
    component to support a comprehensive action plan and the implementation of urban sector
    environmental reforms agreed between the Bank and SEDESOL.

· Expansion of "Oportunidades" in rural areas. The most important social program modified
    its operational rules to include the urban poor. Results have been positive, in particular
    regarding the education component, decreasing school desertion.

G. Low and Moderate Income Land Development

       Prior Actions:
        · SEDESOL has completed a full assessment of state and municipal land regulations
        in two regions to rationalize and simplify the land development process.
        · SEDESOL has finished studies that: (a) inventory developable urban land; and (b)
        analyze the legal and financial options for residential land development.

This component rates satisfactory. The studies completed under HUSAL I relate to the
achievement of two separate outcomes:

Land Regulation. The two regional assessments completed prior to HUSAL I approval have
provided necessary information on the existing municipal land regularization mechanism to
design schemes for land development which will contribute to reduce costs and time required for
land development of low and moderate land markets. At the time of project preparation
benchmark data to measure progress in these two variables was not yet available. The program's
forthcoming operations and the associated TA loan will help to address this issue.

Land markets. The land inventory completed has set the basis to mitigate the existing lack of
documentation relative to land markets, which was identified in the PD as the first main obstacle
preventing the implementation of adequate solutions to promote private sector investment in the
sector. The inventory is an analytical tool which provides the main characteristics of plots
available for development in each municipality. Further work under this component through



                                                16

HUSAL includes the analysis of feasible alternatives to develop available land for the
low/moderate segments.

H. Disaster Prevention and Management

       Prior Actions:
       · SEDESOL has carried out at least 30 community-level risk analyses under its
       HABITAT program.
       · SEDESOL has carried out at least 15 sensitization and mitigation projects
       under its HABITAT program.
       · SEDESOL has put forward at least 10 proposals to organize land use in order
       to prevent natural disasters.

This component rates highly satisfactory. Beyond the agreed actions completed by the GoM
prior to approval of HUSAL I, SEDESOL has taken further steps to increase the sustainability of
the activities financed by HABITAT under the disaster prevention modality. These actions
include:
    · In 2004 SEDESOL enhanced the HABITAT program under the Ordenamiento del
         Territorio y Mejoramiento Ambiental modality from just disaster prevention to
         incorporate disaster mitigation and environmental improvement as a disaster management
         practice.
    · To promote a medium-term vision in disaster prevention, the new HABITAT operational
         rules for 2005 were strengthen under this component to allow co-financing of the
         elaboration of land and urban plans incorporating disaster prevention criteria.
    · In addition, to widen the scope beyond the HABITAT poligono3 the program will allow
         the risk atlas and risk studies to be prepared for cities, metropolitan areas and
         municipalities, taking full advantage of the methodology already developed. This is
         particularly important as it stretches beyond the ad-hoc definition of a poligono, matching
         the existing political division.
    · The percentage of federal financing to prepare risk atlas and risk studies was increased
         under the new operational rules (2005) from up to 50% to up to 60%; the highest in all
         HABITAT modalities to generate incentives for local governments to invest in disaster
         prevention.
    · Under the new 2005 rules HABITAT now co-finances:
               (i)   Disaster prevention strategies (risk diagnosis, natural risks studies risk atlas)
               (ii)  Proposals to prepare land uses and land planning incorporating disaster
               prevention criterion
               (iii) Education and awareness campaigns
               (iv)  Small works on disaster prevention and mitigation
               (v)   Resettlement resulting from disasters

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Institutional coordination. Institutional risk was identified as one possible risk element in the
PD, as several agencies must contribute to achieve reform. It was mitigated through a strong
reliance in the leadership of the Ministry of Finance (SHCP) to provide leadership across
agencies, ensure the fiscal sustainability and link the real and the financial side of the Program.


3HABITAT has identified urban areas with a high concentration of population living in asset poverty. Only
these areas or poligonos receive federal funding.


                                                  17

SHCP and SHF formalized a "Convenio de Mandato" that establishes the main activities for the
"Agente Financiero" and the "Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto" both of them part of the SHF
staff, in order to fulfill this role. To certain degree, key officials within CONAFOVI exercised
this role prior to approval of HUSAL I; however there was also a change in key personnel within
this agency with different technical skills and priorities. These shifts in leadership have increased
the difficulty of achieving reform in the sector, a situation that has particularly affected the
subsidy component. Given that the second operation of the Program emphasizes reform within
the subsidy policy area this issue could potentially present an obstacle for delivering reform.

Housing sector database and evaluation mechanisms. Existing data systems for the housing
sector are fragmented and limited in scope. This situation, coupled with a lack of an evaluation
mechanism is limiting the ability of the sector agencies to design housing policies and measure
their outcomes. CONAFOVI is best placed to host a unit that would manage a database system
incorporating real and financial data, as a rigorous evaluation mechanism and technically skilled
staff. This in turn, could strengthen CONAFOVI's role in setting the housing policy agenda.


6. Bank and Borrower Performance


Bank

Satisfactory. The Bank's team engaged in a fruitful and sustained dialogue with the three
implementing agencies during project preparation despite many counterpart turnovers. In
particular, the Bank's team facilitated dialogue between various sector entities that are not
familiarized with cross-agency collaboration.
The technical assistance provided had significant impact in the design on housing and urban
policies and programs derived from the intense analytical sector dialogue (AAA) since the start of
the present administration. It should be noted that for the subsidy component, the TA provided by
the Bank was particularly strong, to support the achievement of reform in the sector. Two
international seminars were conducted on this topic to discuss policy recommendations and
international best practice.
It is worth noting that the project records present important gaps in documentation to and from
the counterparts within the Government. For the preparation of this report, this was to some
extent mitigated by dialogue with team members.

Borrower

Satisfactory. Overall government's commitment during project preparation to the housing and
urban sectors and to the project was a pillar to support sector reforms. However, lack of
continuity of the core personnel in CONAFOVI slowed the pace of reform for the subsidy
component, it seems to be the case that the Government underestimated the need to bring all
players on board on the decision making process.

7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series

Reforms supported by HUSAL have contributed to the recent expansion and diversification of
market-rate housing credit in the moderate-income segment by leveraging private sector
resources, as evidenced by an increase in the outstanding mortgage to GDP ratio from 4.9% in
2000 to 7.3% in 20044.Subsequent operations of the Program should replicate this success for the


4Includes outstanding debt from INFONAVIT, FOVISSTE, private banks, SOFOLES and securitizations.


                                                  18

much broader low-income segment. To a large extent, the elements included in the agreed policy
matrix will promote this outcome; however special attention should be given to the subsidy
component. It would be advisable to incorporate into the policy matrix the development of a
comprehensive housing sector database that could provide the housing commission with an
essential tool, lacking at the moment, necessary to exercise the role as policy body. Improving
CONAFOVI's technical skills could in turn increase their ability to promote change in the sector,
in particular given their very limited "formal authority" with other housing agencies.

The Program's main objective - improving the living conditions of the poor- depends on a varied
array of variables identified in each of the project's components. To different degrees reform is
needed in all of them to address the main goal. It is expected that these reforms will occur
gradually, for this reason, the programmatic structure of the project design suits the operation.

HUSAL supports a set of ambitious reforms in two important sectors, housing and urban, which
although related in practice are under two different government offices within the Mexican
context. Indeed, reforms included for the housing sector alone involve four different government
agencies. This naturally implies increased difficulties for program implementation; however there
are substantial benefits to be gained in favour of sector policy from the Bank's role as facilitator
between different government agencies fostering policy discussion towards reform. This has been
recognized by the client as an important positive impact of the Bank's role.




                                                 19

                                                    ANNEX 1: POLICY MATRIX
     MEXICO AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND URBAN POVERTY PROGRAMMATIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                       MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, PRIOR ACTIONS, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND OUTCOMES




Policy Area  PRIOR ACTIONS                        Indicative actions for              Indicative actions for          Technical       Program
             FIRST ADJUSTMENT LOAN                SECOND ADJUSTMENT LOAN              THIRD ADJUSTMENT LN             Assistance (TA) Outcomes
             May 2004                             Tentative August 2005               Tentative August 2006           Loan
                                                  (key prior actions for second       (key prior actions for third
                                                  loan in bold)                       loan in bold)
Macro-      ·        Maintenance     of     sound·         Maintenance      of  sound ·        Maintenance         of                 Macro-
economic      macroeconomic framework consistent   macroeconomic            framework  sound         macroeconomic                    economic
Framework     with policy objectives and programs  consistent with policy objectives   framework consistent with                      stability
              described   in    the   Letter   of  and programs described in the       policy     objectives      and                 supports
              Development Policy.                  Letter of Development Policy.       programs described in the                      achievement
                                                                                       Letter    of    Development                    of     program
                                                                                       Policy.                                        objectives




                                                                       20

Policy Area   PRIOR ACTIONS                            Indicative actions for                Indicative actions for            Technical            Program
              FIRST ADJUSTMENT LOAN                    SECOND ADJUSTMENT LOAN                THIRD ADJUSTMENT LN               Assistance     (TA)  Outcomes
              May 2004                                 Tentative August 2005                 Tentative August 2006             Loan
                                                       (key prior actions for second         (key prior actions for third
                                                       loan in bold)                         loan in bold)
National      ·       The Government has approved     ·         CONAFOVI has continued                                         Evaluation        of National
Housing        and presented the National Housing       to provide to the general public                                       housing programs     housing policy
Policy    and  Development     Policy,   strengthened   information    on housing policy                                                            established,
Institutional  transparency through presentation of     implementation       and    program                                    National   program   along      with
Framework      annual      report      on      policy   evaluation.                                                            of     institutional supporting
               implementation and provision of                                                                                 strengthening     of institutional
               information on related programs to                                                                              states          and  framework in
               the public through the internet.                                                                                municipalities   on  order to reach
              ·       The      Government         has ·         Institutional      alignment · All 32 states have created      low         income   overall goal of
               harmonized and defined the roles of      moves to the state level through the  State Housing Councils.          housing              producing
               federal       housing        agencies:   establishment of at least 25 state                                                          750,000    new
               CONAFOVI         is     the     overall  Housing Councils.                    · Fonhapo's            activities Support          for housing
               coordinator    and     policy    body;                                         focused on loan recuperation     housing              solutions   per
               CONAVI serves as a consultative                                                and      housing       subsidy   information system   year by 2006
               forum    for   public    and    private                                        management, and second tier
               stakeholders; SHF takes the lead in                                            lending eliminated.                                   States     and
               developing market-rate primary and                                                                                                   localities
               secondary      mortgage       markets;                                        · Develop a strategy for                               increasingly
               FONHAPO is in charge of housing                                                                                 Analysis of costs
                                                                                              transforming    INFONAVIT                             subsidize
               subsidies;    FONAEVI         receives,                                        and reconciling conflicting      and    benefits   of housing
               accounts for, and disburses housing                                            social  objectives    (pension   changed              through
               subsidy funds.                                                                 fund, housing credit provider    strategy/role    for grants rather
                                                                                              and social housing agency).      INFONAVIT            than     below-
                                                                                                                                                    market-rate
              ·       Government has completed an     ·         The      Government     has  · Satisfactory                                         loans
               environmental assessment (EA) of the     prepared and is implementing an       implementation of the SEA        Housing      Sector
               housing sector.                          action plan for housing sector        by the Government.               SEA                  Strategy
                                                        environmental reforms as part of                                                            document
                                                        the SEA process.                                                                            developed for
                                                                                                                                                    rationalization
                                                                                                                                                    of    role   of
                                                                                                                                                    INFONAVIT.




                                                                            21

Policy Area  PRIOR ACTIONS                           Indicative actions for               Indicative actions for          Technical            Program
             FIRST ADJUSTMENT LOAN                   SECOND ADJUSTMENT LOAN               THIRD ADJUSTMENT LN             Assistance     (TA)  Outcomes
             May 2004                                Tentative August 2005                Tentative August 2006           Loan
                                                     (key prior actions for second        (key prior actions for third
                                                     loan in bold)                        loan in bold)
Housing     ·         The      Government       has ·         Government             has ·     Government             has Coordinated          Federal
Subsidies     mandated a unified housing subsidy      completed      an    evaluation  of  designed ­ as reflected in evaluation            of housing
              program to      be   administered by    federal       housing       subsidy  the approved 2006 budget ­ federal         housing  subsidies
              FONHAPO/FONAEVI             that    is  programs taking into account         a unified subsidy system subsidy programs           unified
              efficient, progressive, and equitable   land and infrastructure subsidies    across    federal      subsidy
              as established through presidential     delivered at the local level to      programs        that:      (a) Support     to   the GREATER
              decree.                                 federally      assisted     housing  improves               equity, housing      subsidy EQUITY,
                                                      projects, and the results are        progressivity, and increased working group and      EFFICIENCY
                                                      reflected in the subsidy programs    beneficiary     contributions for the design and    ,     FISCAL
                                                      designed for 2005.                   across programs; (b) does implementation of         SUSTAINABI
                                                                                           not allow joining subsidies unified         subsidy LITY,     &
            ·         CONAFOVI has set up an on-                                           from a variety of federal system.                   LEVERAGIN
              going working group that includes all                                        programs             ("double                       G        OF
              main agencies involved in housing                                            dipping") thereby resulting Study to develop a      CREDIT AND
              subsidy and/or administration at the                                         in   a   total   amount     of method           for HOUSEHOL
              national level in order to consolidate                                       subvention per-unit that calculation of the         D   SAVINGS
              objectives and programs for the                                              exceeds         agreed-upon present value of        DEMONSTR
              unified housing subsidy program and                                          ceilings; (c) adjusts state selected                ATED      BY
              its continuous refinement.                                                   and municipal contribution INFONAVIT                FEDERAL
                                                                                           requirements      to   federal interest-rate        HOUSING
                                                                                           subsidy programs based on subsidy packages.         SYSTEM
                                                                                           the poverty level in the
                                                                                           jurisdiction; d) establishes
                                                                                           consistent      rules      for
                                                                                           beneficiary selection, for
                                                                                           linking    receipt    of   the
                                                                                           subsidy      to    household
                                                                                           savings, and for the subsidy
                                                                                           amount; and e) increases
                                                                                           portability of subsidies.




                                                                          22

Policy Area  PRIOR ACTIONS                            Indicative actions for                  Indicative actions for           Technical           Program
             FIRST ADJUSTMENT LOAN                    SECOND ADJUSTMENT LOAN                  THIRD ADJUSTMENT LN              Assistance    (TA)  Outcomes
             May 2004                                 Tentative August 2005                   Tentative August 2006            Loan
                                                      (key prior actions for second           (key prior actions for third
                                                      loan in bold)                           loan in bold)

            · FONHAPO            has  established   a ·        FONHAPO                   has  · The       Government      has  Support         for Beneficiary
             database    of   beneficiaries  of   Tu    incorporated    the     beneficiaries  approved      and      publicly capacity   building selection
             Casa/Vivah.                                PROSAVI,      INFONAVIT,        and    disseminated the procedures     of     FONHAPO/     system widely
                                                        FOVISSSTE       into   the   unified   for    subsidy    application,  FONAEVI             used        by
                                                        housing beneficiary database.          prioritization  or   rationing                      housing
                                                                                               criteria including the role of                      agencies     to
                                                                                               savings and the approval and                        register   and
                                                                                               selection process.                                  screen
                                                                                              · The unified beneficiary                            subsidy
                                                                                               database has the capability                         applicants
                                                                                               of: (a) ensuring that a new
                                                                                               applicant    for  a    housing
                                                                                               subsidy has received no prior
                                                                                               housing subsidy; and (b)
                                                                                               producing reports of housing
                                                                                               subsidy beneficiaries within
                                                                                               and among states.



                                                                                                                                                   Greater
Housing     ·        Congress has approved a set of                                           · 2005 funding agreements        Mortgage
                                                                                                                                                   funding,
Credit   and  reforms that strengthen the legal                                                for federal housing support     foreclosure
                                                                                                                                                   lending,
Household     framework at the national level for                                              to    states    (CODEVISU)      awareness program
                                                                                                                                                   affordability
Savings       mortgages      (credito   hipotecario),                                          reflect  effective   mortgage
              allowing adjudication of defaulted                                               foreclosure.                                        &
              mortgage liens in federal courts,                                                                                                    downmarket
              simplifying documentation required                                                                                                   penetration
              to prove the existence of the lien, and                                                                                              demonstrated
              allowing for extra-judicial foreclosure                                                                                              by the housing
              of collateral trusts.                                                                                                                finance system

            ·                                                                                 · SHF has issued disclosure
                     Congress has approved a new      · SHF has issued appraisal norms                                                             Differences in
                                                                                               rules for the cost of home-     Home    counseling
              financial transparency law related to    for   its  own     housing   finance
                                                                                               improvement      loans     and  study/program   on  effective
              mortgage         loans,      providing   operation   and    has    created   a                                                       interest rates
                                                       minimum standard for a master           refinancing    of    mortgage   mortgage   lending



                                                                           23

Policy Area  PRIOR ACTIONS                           Indicative actions for                 Indicative actions for           Technical            Program
             FIRST ADJUSTMENT LOAN                   SECOND ADJUSTMENT LOAN                 THIRD ADJUSTMENT LN              Assistance     (TA)  Outcomes
             May 2004                                Tentative August 2005                  Tentative August 2006            Loan
                                                     (key prior actions for second          (key prior actions for third
                                                     loan in bold)                          loan in bold)
              standardized, clear and comparative     insurance policy.                      loans.                          for        potential among
              information     and    contracts    to                                        · Actions        have      been  borrowers.           mortgage
              borrowers. SHF has issued rules for                                            initiated   to    clean    and                       lenders
              the licensing of property appraisers,                                          incorporate historic data into                       decrease
              and the calculation of costs disclosed                                         the    Database    on     UDI-
              for residential mortgage loans.                                                denominated loans                                    Loans
                                                                                            · Information contained in                            increasingly
             ·        SHF has designed and put in    · All      new     peso    and   UDI    the database for credit risk                         accompanied
              place a database for credit risk        denominated     housing   loans are    could be available to the       Software             by       home
              assessment, and private sector is       incorporated into the Database for     private sector.                 engineering     and  counseling
              contributing information on loans.      credit risk.                                                           hardware     support
                                                     · SHF has completed an improved                                         for SHF to hasten    Housing and
                                                      master plan for the Database that is                                   the    development   mortgage risk
                                                      endorsed by the private sector and                                     and distribution of  data used by
                                                      envisages the private sector's active                                  the credit database. private-sector
                                                      participation.

             ·        SHF has expanded its products
              to include financing and guarantees
              both in UDI and peso.                                                         · SHF            mainstreams                          Access
                                                     · SHF has designed and put in           financing       of       home                        increased    of
                                                                                                                             Studies of: (a) the
                                                      practice     pilot    projects,  for   improvement, addition and                            low-moderate-
                                                                                                                             role of Cajas de
                                                      financing     home     improvement,    purchase       of      existing                      income
                                                                                                                             Ahorro y Préstamo
                                                      additions, and purchase of existing    housing,      in accordance                          households to
                                                                                                                             and other lenders in
                                                      housing,    in    accordance    with   with     standards      agreed                       home     credit

                                                      standards agreed between the GOM       between the GOM and the         low/moderate-        for   low-cost
                                                                                                                             income      housing
                                                      and the Bank.                          Bank.                                                housing
                                                                                                                             finance,   and   the solutions
                                                                                            · Bansefi programs have          potential of Bansefi
             · Bansefi     has   launched    savings                                         added 4,000 new low and         as a source of long- Greater share
             programs for low- and moderate-         · Bansefi savings programs have
                                                                                             moderate-income clients over    term funding; (b)    of        low-
             income households linked to lending      added a total of 3,000 low and
                                                                                             the    last   year    to    the the feasibility of   moderate-
             by Infonavit and Fonhapo's Tu Casa       moderate-income clients over the
                                                                                             INFONAVIT,        SHF,     and  SHF issuing retail   income
             program.                                 last year for the INFONAVIT, SHF,                                      bonds to low and
                                                      and Fonhapo Tu Casa programs.          Fonhapo Tu Casa program.                             families
                                                                                                                             moderate     income  enrolled     in



                                                                          24

Policy Area  PRIOR ACTIONS                        Indicative actions for               Indicative actions for           Technical             Program
             FIRST ADJUSTMENT LOAN                SECOND ADJUSTMENT LOAN               THIRD ADJUSTMENT LN              Assistance     (TA)   Outcomes
             May 2004                             Tentative August 2005                Tentative August 2006            Loan
                                                  (key prior actions for second        (key prior actions for third
                                                  loan in bold)                        loan in bold)
                                                                                                                        savers,         with  formal-sector
                                                                                                                        proceeds    funding   savings
                                                                                                                        home credit to this   programs     or
                                                                                                                        income group: (c)     with   savings
                                                                                                                        of   demand       for accounts
                                                                                                                        financial products
                                                                                                                        by immigrants and
                                                                                                                        the      use      of
                                                                                       · Study completed for new        remittance flows.
                                                                                        legal      and      regulatory
                                                                                        framework for issuance and
                                                                                        investment     in    mortgage   Development        of
                                                                                        related securities by credit    norms             for
                                                                                        institutions.                   SOFOLES.

URBAN       ·Two state governments have started  ·Five additional state governments ·All states have adopted new        Support           for Time required
REAL          to  implement    property  registry  have     implemented       property   property registry programs.    modernization      of to register a
PROPERTY      modernization programs with support  registry modernization programs, · Federal          and        state property registries   mortgage lien
REGISTRIE     from CONAFOVI.                       in a manner agreed between the        government have reached        in additional states. in pilot states
S       AND                                        GOM and the Bank.                     consensus on the principles,                         reduced
RIGHTS                                                                                   path to reform, and operation  Studies           for substantially
                                                                                         of a property-rights system,   consensus on legal
                                                                                         as expressed in an official    framework         for
                                                                                         property-rights                property rights.
                                                                                         modernization strategy.




                                                                       25

Policy Area   PRIOR ACTIONS                           Indicative actions for                  Indicative actions for          Technical            Program
              FIRST ADJUSTMENT LOAN                   SECOND ADJUSTMENT LOAN                  THIRD ADJUSTMENT LN             Assistance    (TA)   Outcomes
              May 2004                                Tentative August 2005                   Tentative August 2006           Loan
                                                      (key prior actions for second           (key prior actions for third
                                                      loan in bold)                           loan in bold)
National      ·        The Government has approved   · SEDESOL continues to increase                                                               National
Urban          and presented the National Urban        and    improve     the   information                                                        urban     policy
Policy, Slum   Development and Territorial Planning    available to the public on urban                                                            established,
Upgrading      Policy and strengthened transparency    development        and     territorial                                                      along      with
and            through presentation of an annual       planning policy.                                                                            supporting
Institutional  report on policy implementation and                                                                                                 institutional
Strengthen-    provision of information on related                                                                                                 framework.
ing            programs to the public through the
               internet.
              ·        SEDESOL Poverty mapping       · SEDESOL           Poverty   mapping    · Trained        municipalities Poverty   mapping
               has been completed and used for         made      available    and   training   have   incorporated    poverty dissemination and
               targeting social programs (Habitat,     provided to local governments and       mapping     into    municipal  training for states,
               Oportunidades, Liconsa).                communities on its incorporation        priority      setting      for municipalities and
                                                       into municipal priority setting for     investments and programs.      communities.
                                                       investments and programs.

              ·        SEDESOL has integrated its    · SEDESOL has strengthened
               physical and social interventions in    Habitat    through     participatory                                                        Increased
               urban communities under a single        planning,     coordination,      and                                                        efficiency    of
               umbrella    slum-upgrading    program   sequencing of investments.                                                                  slum
               (Habitat), as approved and funded by                                                                                                upgrading
               Congress.                                                                                                                           under Habitat
              ·        Government has modified its                                                                                                 as    measured
               regulations to expand its major social                                                                                              by       greater
               program (Oportunidades) from a rural                                                                                                community
               focus    to   include  urban    areas,                                                                                              participation
               reflecting the growing levels of urban                                                                                              & investment
               poverty.                                ·    At least 45 of municipal          · 80 additional municipal                            planning, and
                                                       governments       establish    urban    governments establish urban    Competitiveness      improved
                                                       planning agencies.                      planning agencies.             program         for  sequencing of
                                                                                                                              Development          investment.
                                                                                                                              Agencies in fast
                                                                                                                              growing      urban
                                                                                                                              areas.




                                                                           26

Policy Area  PRIOR ACTIONS                            Indicative actions for                Indicative actions for         Technical             Program
             FIRST ADJUSTMENT LOAN                    SECOND ADJUSTMENT LOAN                THIRD ADJUSTMENT LN            Assistance     (TA)   Outcomes
             May 2004                                 Tentative August 2005                 Tentative August 2006          Loan
                                                      (key prior actions for second         (key prior actions for third
                                                      loan in bold)                         loan in bold)


             ·      Government has completed an        ·    The Government has prepared     Satisfactory implementation of
             environmental assessment (EA) of the      and is implementing an action plan   the Environment Action Plan
             urban sector.                             for  urban    sector   environmental by the Government.
                                                       reforms at the federal level, in
                                                       accordance with procedures and
                                                       standards agreed between the GOM
                                                       and the Bank.

Low      and·         SEDESOL has completed a        ·         Government              has  Satisfactory implementation Evaluation of and        Costs and time
Moderate      full assessment of state and municipal   completed a quantitative analysis    of a pilot program that proposals for the            required    for
Income Land   land regulations in two regions to       of the costs and benefits of         facilitates     low/moderate- urban            land  land
Development   rationalize and simplify the land        different modes of low/moderate-     income     residential     land inventory.           development
              development process (States of Baja      income land development, and         development.                                         reduced.
              California,    Baja   California   Sur,  developed an action plan that                                        Study quantifying
              Chihuaha, Coahuila, Durango, Nuevo       facilitates   low/moderate-income                                    the    costs    and  Increased
              Leon,      Sinaloa,     Sonora     and   residential land development.                                        benefits          of scale of and
              Tamaulipas).                                                                                                  irregular       and  private-sector
            ·         SEDESOL         has    finished                                                                       regular land use.    involvement in
              studies that: (a) inventory developable                                                                                            low-moderate-
              urban land; and (b) analyze the legal                                                                         Study    on    new   income    land
              and financial options for residential                                                                         instruments     and  development
              land development.                                                                                             action   plan    for
                                                                                                                            low/moderate-
                                                                                                                            income         land
                                                                                                                            development.




                                                                           27

Policy Area  PRIOR ACTIONS                           Indicative actions for                  Indicative actions for           Technical           Program
             FIRST ADJUSTMENT LOAN                   SECOND ADJUSTMENT LOAN                  THIRD ADJUSTMENT LN              Assistance    (TA)  Outcomes
             May 2004                                Tentative August 2005                   Tentative August 2006            Loan
                                                     (key prior actions for second           (key prior actions for third
                                                     loan in bold)                           loan in bold)
DISASTER     · SEDESOL has carried out at least       · SEDESOL continues its work on         · SEDESOL continues its         Review     of  the  Vulnerability
PREVENTI       30 community-level risk analyses         community     disaster   mitigation     work      on     community    methodology      to to      natural
ON      AND    under its HABITAT program.               through risk analysis, sensitization    disaster mitigation through   elaborate     Risk  disaster events
MANAGEM      · SEDESOL has carried out at least         programs and mitigation works in        risk analysis, sensitization  Atlases             is     reduced
ENT            15   sensitization  and    mitigation    interested cities participating in      programs and mitigation                           significantly
               projects   under    its   HABITAT        the HABITAT program                     works in interested cities    Training for local  in    Mexico's
               program.                                                                         participating     in     the  authorities in risk major cities
             · SEDESOL has put forward at least                                                 HABITAT program               prevention
               10 proposals to organize land use in
               order to prevent natural disasters.
                                                      · SEDESOL finalizes methodology
                                                        for developing "risk atlases" at the
                                                        city level.

                                                      · SEDESOL       has   promoted     the  · SEDESOL has promoted
                                                        elaboration of risk atlases for/with    the   elaboration    of  risk
                                                        30 cities.                              atlases     for/with      30
                                                      · Inter-ministerial group formed to       additional cities.
                                                        increase emphasis on disaster
                                                        prevention   and     mitigation   in
                                                        Government policy and programs.




                                                                          28

       ANNEX 2: COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER AND SOCIEDAD HIPOTECARIA
                                            FEDERAL (SHF)
                                           (Original in English)

                                               June, 27 2005

                           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
 AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND URBAN URBAN POVERTY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                                                (P070371)

1.     The HUSAL program was negotiated with the World Bank on April 21, 2004 with the participation
on the Mexican side of SHCP, SEDESOL, CONAFOVI and SHF. On July 26, 2004 the loan was
approved by the World Bank board. On October 1, 2004 the SHCP and SHF formalized a "Convenio de
Mandato" the establishes the main activities for the "Agente Financiero" and the "Unidad Coordinadora
del Proyecto" both of them part of the SHF. The "Agente Financiero" is under the Finance division of
SHF while the "Unidad Coordinadora de Proyecto" is under the Economic and Housing division of
SHF. The loan was declared effective on December 17, 2004 and the disbursement of US$99 million
took place a week after.

2.     The objectives of the first part of the program stated in the policy matrix of the PAD have been
fulfilled completely and the outlook of the rest of the program is positive. The actions undertaken by the
CONAFOVI, SEDESOL and SHF are a complement to the government policies in the housing and urban
sector. Hence, the agencies involved in the program have shown a strong commitment with its success.

3.     The program and in particular this loan has made major achievements:

    i)      Brought closer together SHCP, SHF, CONAFOVI and SEDESOL, fostering the exchange of
            ideas and the ability to find common goals and actions among institutions. The subsidy
            seminar and working group that started with the World Bank participation in April 2005 is a
            good example. The SHF financed a subsidy study for Mexico (under another 4443-ME World
            Bank loan) that was the basic input in the subsidy seminar and working group. Moreover, the
            loan has achieved one of its main goals by placing subsidy issues in the agenda of the housing
            sector in Mexico. The output of the work group is still to be seen but there is hope to find
            common ground and issue a set of policy recommendations.
    ii)     The beginning of the pilot microfinance for house improvement program by SHF. The pilot
            program is set to start in July 2005. The World Bank staff played an important role in the
            launch of this program by actively working with its counterpart at SHF.

4.     Despite the important achievements of the loan, two issues had a negative impact on its operational
implementation:
    i)      Continuous changes in the World Bank staff affected the implementation of the program. In
            particular, two changes in the manager of the project left the program without the necessary
            attention, leadership and follow up from the World Bank, creating unnecessary confusion
            among the Mexican agencies.
    ii)     The delay in the effectiveness of the HUTAL affected the implementation of actions
            complementary to the HUSAL.

5.     In spite of all the changes, communication between the World Bank and SHF as "Agente
Financiero" and "Unidad Coordinadora de Proyecto" has been fluent and rapid. The necessary
operational systems are in place to monitor the actions by all the agencies involved and most of the
operational issues have been resolved promptly. It is expected that all the agencies will fulfill the policy
matrix to a satisfactory degree for the World Bank and the next disbursement will take place in 2005.

                                                     29

