24998
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
rinfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date lSDS Prepared/Updated: 10/16/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MEXICO                               Project ID: P070371
Project: Mexico National Urban Upgrading Project  Task Team Leader: Anna Wellenstein
Authorized to Appraise Date: September 5, 2002  IBRD Amount ($m): 50.00
Bank Approval: April 15, 2003                 IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSFU                          Sector: Central government administration (25%);
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Sub-national government administration (25%);
Status: Lending                               Housing finance and real estate markets (25%);
Micro- and SME finance (25%)
Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P);
Poverty strategy; analysis and monitoring (P); Rural
policies and institutions (P); Rural services and
infrastructure (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project purpose is to improve the shelter conditions of the urban poor through improvement
in infrastructure, services, and housing units, and for the expansion of urban land supply
accessible to the poor. The project will:
(i)   enhance federal government capacity to target, track and evaluate low income housing
support, and provide related technical assistance.
(ii)  design and implement federal funding mechanisms to support neighborhood upgrading,
progressive housing and urban land supply to the poor.
(iii)  increase the capacity of state and local authorities to develop statewide and citywide
strategies and update regulations to stimulate investment in urban upgrading and
progressive housing including land supply for the poor.
(v)   increase the quality and quantity of infrastructure, basic services and progressive housing
in the slums of Mexico's traditional large population centers and fast growing cities, such
as the Northern Border Region, and cities of the "Bajio" like Le6n.
The proposed project aims to expand the range of formal housing options to the poor, building on
the positive aspects of progressive housing that dominates the informal market and is the main
supplier of shelter to the poor, while taking steps to reduce progressive housing's negative aspects



2
ISDS
of poor neighborhood layout and location in environmental risk areas, among others. Since many
of the mechanisms needed to create a range of housing products to fit the varying circumstance
of the urban poor are fairly new to Mexico, the project will provide substantial support for.
learning, through studies, technical assistance and capacity building aimed at developing or
adapting approaches that have proven successful on a smaller scale in other parts of the region.
The project will begin with limited investments and intense study and capacity building to
rapidly create the conditions for increased demand-driven investment in urban upgrading, home
improvement, and low cost land delivery mechanisms.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Components:
Component 1: Federal Housing Program Guidelines and Evaluation - develop system for monitoring and
evaluating the impact of federal upgrading and housing programs; develop guidelines, instruments and
update regulations for upgrading and progressive housing; and update land tenure regulations and
procedures.
Component 2: Federal Funding Mechanism/Matching Grant - develop and finance urban upgrading
matching grant, and finance upgrading investments in pilot cities.
Component 3: State Upgrading and Progressive Housing Strategies - update urban planning and building
regulations and standards; capacity building in state and municipalities to support progressive housing;
construction TA to families investing progressively in their housing unit.
Component 4: Project Management - project administration and financial management.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project targets the major population centers of Mexico (e.g. Mexico City, Leon) and the fastest
growing cities (e.g. Tijuana and Juarez), and in particular the expanding urban slums. The
neighborhoods are characterized by insecure tenure and inadequate services. They are often cut off from
the larger urban economy and society through their location or through lack of transportation access.
Project investment -through the proposed federal matching grant - will be on a demand basis so all
neighborhoods to receive investments will not be know prior to project approval. Pilot cities and specific
neighborhoods to receive investments in year one of the project are being identified and neighborhoods
in these cities will be fully assessed as part of project preparation.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                               Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                   * Yes 0 No C0 TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                      C Yes * No 0 TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                Yes * No   _. TBD



3
ISDS
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 0 Yes * No    C, TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   C Yes C No    * TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       C Yes C No    * TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                * Yes C No      TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                C Yes 0 No    C TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*           (J Yes * No   C TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         u Yes 0 No    C' TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties 'claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
It is anticipated that the project will generate substantial benefits to the urban and surrounding
natural environment of the targeted areas. Regulatory reform guiding development in new areas
more appropriate for urban land use is expected to diminish the negative environmental impacts
of the current situation of irregular, expanding settlements. Negative environmental impacts
from project investments, consisting of infrastructure investments in existing areas and support to
more orderly expansion of urban land, are expected to be limited to construction impacts in urban
areas.
Minimum and localized resettlement within existing areas is anticipated to provide for
rights-of-way for infrastructure and to remove families located in high-risk and environmentally
sensitive areas. Importantly, resettlement in upgrading is an integral part of the project design
for improving the living conditions of the neighborhoods and specifically the families being
relocated. It is anticipated that most households can be resettled within the immediate area due
to the general low density of Mexicans slums (relative to, for example, those of Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil or Caracas, Venezuela). The project will also support the development of new urban lands
affordable to the poor.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N/a
lI.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/a
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
The only alternative considered in this project with regards to environment is the location of new
areas for low income housing. These areas will be screened for natural habitats, cultural
property, etc. and designed for progressive infrastructure investment. The design will include



4
ISDS
neighborhood layout, development of community organization to facilitate future investments,
and preservation of green areas.  The designed progressive areas minimize the negative
environmental impact that commonly occurs when the poor settle in non-urbanized areas (e.g.
allow for rights of way, reduce settling in risk areas, etc), and therefore will also minimize future
resettlement needs. The total number of families to be resettled will not be know definitively
until after the engineering designs for the investment areas are completed.
Il.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
See section 5.4
Project preparation will include the scoping of investment works among pilot neighborhoods and
a screening of new urban lands for housing development in pilot cities. The scoping of works
will establish the likely investment mix, and help set parameters for environmental assessment of
and resettlement requirements for works to be funded on a demand basis during project
implementation. The EA will also examine the municipal, state and federal capacity to address
environmental concerns during project implementation. As a result, guidelines for
neighborhood planning, prioritization of works, engineering designs/standards, and construction
manuals will be developed as part of project preparation to assure that environment concerns are
adequately evaluated and mitigated. Prefeasibility studies for works to be financed by the project
in selected areas will be prepared. The studies will be ready prior to the Project Appraisal
Document meeting.
Based on the findings of the environmental assessment, an environmental management plan will
form part of the project implementation manual. The EMP will include a review of the EA
process in Mexico, including a description of necessary steps to obtain the environmental license
for project activities, and propose guidelines for screening of areas for urban expansion,
neighborhood planning, prioritization of work, engineering designs/standards, and guidelines for
construction in urban areas. The EMP will also include a review of existing capacity (institution,
staff, equipment, manuals, and software) for EA assessment, identifying bottlenecks that may
affect the project's implementation and propose mitigatory measures.
A resettlement framework and action plans for the pilot neighborhoods, following Bank policy,
will also be ready prior to the Project Appraisal Document meeting. A social assessment will be
prepared as part of the project preparation phase to verify if and to what extent the following
safeguards apply to the project; Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) and Cultural Property (OPN
11.03), and to design tools to address safeguard policies as appropriate during project
implementation.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
During preparation of the EA, prefeasibility studies, and social assessment, stakeholder
workshops will be organized in target areas to discuss the project in general and its potential
environmental and social impacts specifically. The methodology being developed for preparing
state and municipal urban upgrading and housing strategies and neighborhood plans includes



5
ISDS
communities' involvement in the processes of definition and design. Participation will take
place through various existing community organizations. Communities and the private and
public sectors will also take part in the analysis and prioritization of works and in their
implementation through financial and in-kind contributions including labor, materials, and
management responsibilities and possibly operation and maintenance.
E. Safeguards Classif cation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
] S3. -No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 9/2/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             9/2/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              9/2/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 9/2/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             9/2/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              9/2/2002
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date



6
ISDS
Task Team Leader:              Anna Wellenstein
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Kirsten Oleson/Person/World Bank          April 26, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Paula Dias Pini/Person/World Bank         April 29, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                   Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                            April 30, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:       Danny Leipziger                               April, 30, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH    _     FEEDEACK      ,SiTE MAP  __   SHOWDASE



