Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7229-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Sector Adjustment Loan) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 1, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7229-ME 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 1, 2004, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES  
(the Borrower), represented by its signatory on page 10 of this Agreement, and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated May 10, 
2004, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s housing and urban sector (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“
‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Page  3
-
2
-
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.” 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) “BANSEFI” 
means 
Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros, 
S.N.C.
,
a
developmental bank of the Borrower;  
 
(b) “CONAFOVI” 
means 
Comisión Nacional de Fomento a la Vivienda
,
the 
Borrower’s National Housing Commission established under Article 1 of the relevant 
Borrower’s Decree published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 26, 2001;   
 
(c) “CONAVI” 
means 
Consejo Nacional de la Vivienda
,
the Borrower’s 
National Housing Council established under Article 5 of the relevant Borrower’s Decree 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 26, 2001;  
 
(d) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(e) 
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said 
Interest Period; 
 
(f) “FONAEVI” 
means 
Fondo Nacional de Apoyo Económico a la Vivienda
,
a
trust fund of the Borrower within FONHAPO in charge of coordinating housing 
subsidies, established by the FONAEVI Decree;  
 
(g) 
“FONAEVI Decree” means the Borrower’s Decree establishing 
FONAEVI, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on June 2, 2003;  
 
(h) “FONHAPO” 
means 
Fideicomiso Fondo de Habitaciones Populares
,
a
housing trust fund created by the Borrower on April 1, 1981;  
 
(i) 
“Habitat” means an urban poverty program of the Borrower, regulated 
under the operating rules issued by the Borrower, through SEDESOL, on March 23, 
2004;  
 
(j) “INFONAVIT” 
means 
Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda para 
los Trabajadores
,
an institute for housing finance with separate legal personality, 
regulated by the law published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on April 24, 1972 (as 
amended through May 25, 2001);   
 
(k) 
“Liconsa” means a milk distribution program of the Borrower, regulated 
under operational rules issued by SEDESOL and published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette on March 15, 2002;  
 
(l) 
“Maturity Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date 
being the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which said 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn; 
 
(m) “
Oportunidades
”
means a human development program of the Borrower, 
regulated under operational rules issued by SEDESOL and published in the Borrower’s 
Official Gazette on May 8, 2003;  
 
(n) 
“Peso” means the Borrower’s lawful currency;  
 
(o) “SEDESOL” 
means 
Secretaría de Desarrollo Social
,
the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Social Development;  
 
(p) “SHCP” 
means 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the 
Borrower’s  Ministry of Finance and Public Credit; 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(q) 
“SHF” means 
Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal, S.N.C.
,
the Borrower’s 
development bank in charge of promoting the development of mortgage markets, 
regulated under SHF’s organic law published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on 
October 11, 2001 and, for purposes of this Loan, the Borrower’s financial agent;  
 
(r) 
“SHF Contract” means the contract referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement; and 
 
(s) “UDI” 
means 
unidad de inversión
,
a
unit created by the Borrower’s 
Central Bank for determining the inflation adjusted value of the Peso. 
 
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $99,500,000 from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b)  
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as 
may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee.  
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, the first such installment to be payable on the eleventh 
(11th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed 
Amount and the last such installment to be payable on the thirtieth (30th)
 
Interest 
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. Each 
installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-twentieth (1/20) of said Disbursed 
Amount.  The last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of said 
Disbursed Amount.  
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable after September 15, 2019, the Borrower 
shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. 
 
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency 
that shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Page  7
-
6
-
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
Section 2.10.  The 
Director General
 of the  SHF, and any person whom he or she 
shall designate in writing, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program.  
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower, through SHF, shall 
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02
.
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower, through SHF, shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract 
(
Contrato de Mandato
)
with SHF, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 
 
(i) 
SHF agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard 
to the Loan, meaning that, 
inter alia
,
SHF agrees to represent the 
Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan 
withdrawal applications to the Bank in form and substance 
sufficient to justify disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of 
Loan proceeds, agrees to maintain and operate the Deposit 
Account in compliance with the terms of this Agreement and 
agrees to ensure that the obligations set forth in Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement are complied with; and 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower agrees that, through SHCP, the Borrower shall 
cooperate fully with SHF to ensure that SHF is able to comply 
with all of SHF’s obligations referred to in paragraph (i) of this 
Section. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the SHF Contract in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of the SHF Contract.  In case 
of any conflict between the terms of the SHF Contract and those of this Agreement, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;  
 
(b) the 
Bor
rower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program; and  
 
(c) 
SHF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the SHF 
Contract or  a situation shall have arisen so as to materially and adversely affect, in the 
opinion of the Bank, the ability of SHF to carry out its obligations under the SHF 
Contract. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the SHF Contract has been entered into by the 
Borrower and SHF.  
 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Borrower (in its legal opinion) and 
SHF (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by SHF counsel 
acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the SHF Contract has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and SHF and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and SHF in accordance with the SHF Contract’s terms. 
 
Section 5.03. The date December 30, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the 
Titular
 
de la Unidad de Cr
édito Público
 of
SHCP is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
 
Unidad de Crédito Público 
Palacio Nacional (piso 3), oficina 3010 
Colonia Centro 
06000 México, D.F. 
México 
 
Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
1777313-SHOCME  
011-52-559-158-1156 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By  /s/ Francisco Gil Díaz 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ James Wolfensohn 
Authorized Representative 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  13
-
12
-
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2  
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
1. 
The Borrower has issued a national housing development policy for years 2001-
2006, and has made publicly available an annual report stating the results of the 
implementation of said policy during the period between September 2002 and August 
2003. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has harmonized and defined the roles of the following federal 
housing agencies and trust funds: CONAFOVI, CONAVI, FONAEVI, FONHAPO and 
SHF. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through CONAFOVI, has carried out an environmental 
assessment of the Borrower’s housing sector on September 19, 2003.  
 
4. 
The Borrower, through CONAFOVI, has established a working group to 
consolidate housing subsidy programs, which group includes representatives of the 
Borrower’s main agencies involved in housing subsidies, CONAFOVI being responsible 
pursuant to its regulations for the design, coordination and evaluation of the Borrower’s 
federal housing subsidy programs. 
 
5. 
With the goal of consolidating the Borrower’s policy on housing subsidies, the 
Borrower has issued the FONAEVI Decree.  
 
6. 
The Borrower, through FONHAPO, has established a database of beneficiaries of 
the Borrower’s “
Tu Casa/Viva
”
housing program.  
 
7. 
The Borrower’s legislative branch has issued a Congressional Decree containing 
a
set of reforms on various issues related to mortgages and trusts, published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on June 13, 2003.  
 
8. 
The Borrower has issued a transparency law on housing guaranteed credit and 
regulations to said law, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 30, 
2002 and June 30, 2003, respectively; said law and regulations oblige housing lenders to 
publicly disclose all costs, commissions and interest rates related to housing loans, which 
SHF is required to publish monthly in the Borrower’s Official Gazette. 
 
9. 
SHF has issued rules for the licensing of property appraisers, published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on June 30, 2003.   
 
10. 
SHF has designed and installed a database for credit risk assessment and private 
financial institutions have begun to contribute information on loans to be included in said 
database. 
Page  15
-
14
-
11. 
SHF has modified its general conditions of financing to include credits and 
guarantees in both Pesos and UDIs. 
 
12. 
BANSEFI has developed savings programs for low- and moderate-income 
households applicable to lending by INFONAVIT and to FONHAPO’s 
Tu Casa
 program.  
 
13. 
The Borrower’s States of 
Colima
,
and 
Sonora
 have initiated a program to 
modernize their respective property registries. 
 
14. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL, has developed a poverty map to target social 
programs, including the 
Oportunidades
,
Hábitat
 and 
Liconsa 
programs. 
 
15. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL, has integrated its physical and social 
interventions in urban communities under a single umbrella slum-upgrading program 
(
Hábitat
). 
 
16. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL, has expanded the 
Oportunidades
 program to 
include coverage of urban areas.  
 
17. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL, has carried out an environmental assessment 
of the Borrower’s urban development sector on January 28, 2004.  
 
18. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL, has carried out an assessment of the 
regulatory framework for land development in the States of 
Baja California
,
Baja 
California Sur
,
Chihuaha
,
Coahuila
,
Durango
,
Nuevo León,
 
Sinaloa
,
Sonora
 and 
Tamaulipas.
 
19. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL, has carried out sixty-five city-level 
 
inventories of developable urban land and an analysis of instruments to facilitate 
residential land development.  
 
20. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL, has carried out thirty community-level risk 
analyses and fifteen sensitization and mitigation projects under the 
Hábitat 
program.  
 
21. 
The Borrower, through SEDESOL, has developed ten proposals to organize land 
use in order to reduce the risk of natural disasters.  
 
