Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15378-AZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
August 2, 1996
Infrastructure, Energy and Environment Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = manat
EXCHANGE RATES
Manats per US$I
1993 (Average)                                 92.6
1994 (Average)                              1,456.9
1994 (End)                                  4,168.0
1995 (End)                                  4,580.0
1996 (April)                                4,450.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
BCM - billion cubic meters                 toe - tonne of oil equivalent
MCM - thousand cubic meters                kWh - kilowatt hour
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS  - Coimtrv Assistance Strategy
CGS  - City Gate Station
CP  - Cathodic Protection
EBRD  - European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIRR - Economic Internal Rate of Return
EU  - European Union
FIRR - Financial Internal Rate of Return
FSU  - Former Soviet Union
GAAP  - Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GPP  - Gas Processing Plant
IAS  - International Auditing Standards
ICB  - International Competitive Bidding
IS - International Shopping
JSC  - Joint Stock Company
LIB  - Limited International Bidding
LPG  - Liquid Petroleum Gas
MOF  - Ministry of Finance
NPV  - Net Present Value
PEMS  - Procurement, Engineering, Management and Supervision
PIU  - Project Implementation Unit
PPF  - Project Preparation Facility
SA  - Special Account
SLA  - Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SOCAR  - State Oil Company of Azerbaijan
SOE  - Statement of Expenditure
TA  - Technical Assistance
TACIS  - Technical Assistance - Commonwealth of Independent States
VAT  - Value Added Tax
AZERBAIJAN - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
Gas System Rehabilitation Project
CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary .......................................                           iii
I. INTRODUCTION ........................................                                      I
A.    Macroeconomic Setting ........................................                  1
B.    The Energy Sector ........................................1
C.    Government Strategy and Bank/IDA Role .............................. 2
II. PROJECT CONTEXT AND STRATEGY ....................................... 3
A. Institutional Setting .3
B. Supply/Demand Outlook .4
C. Issues .6
D. Project Design Strategy .13
E.  Rationale for Bank Involvement .13
F.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations .14
III. THE PROJECT                   ............ 14
A.  Project Origin and Formulation .14
B. Project Objectives .15
C. Project Description .15
D. Cost Estimate .17
E.  Project Financing Arrangements                           .18
F. Environmental Aspects .19
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                      .......................... 20
A.  Implementation Arrangements .20
B. Schedule .21
C. Procurement Arrangements .22
D. Disbursement .24
E. Supervision .26
F. Insurance .26
V. FINANCIAL ISSUES                          ... .............. 26
A. Financial Rates of Return .27
B.  Financial Risks and Sensitivities .28
C.  Pro-Forma Financial Projections .29
D.  Sensitivity of Pro Forma Projections .31
E.  Accounting and Auditing Arrangements .33



- ii -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS                      .............................. 33
A.    Benefits, Costs and Rate of Return ................................... 33
B.    Risk Analysis and Risk Mitigation Measures ........           ................... 36
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........                             ............. 38
A. Agreements Reached .38
ANNEXES
Annex 1.1      -      Fuel and Energy Production and Consumption
Annex 2.1    -        Azerigaz Organization Chart
Annex 2.2    -        Comparison of Household Fuel Costs
Annex 2.3    -        Household Gas Price Increases - Assessment of Social Impacts
Annex 2.4    -        Structure of the LPG Industry
Annex 2.5    -        Action Plan on Gas Payments
Annex 3.1    -        Project Cost Estimates
Annex 3.2    -        Lending Arrangements, Legal Documents, and Flow of Funds
Annex 3.3    -        Summary of Environmental Assessment and Environmental Mitigation
Plan
Annex 4.1    -        Terms of Reference - Procurement, Engineering, Management and
Supervision Consultants
Annex 4.2    -        Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 4.3    -        Procurement Plan
Annex 4.4    -        Development Indicators
Annex 4.5    -        Proposed Supervision Program
Annex 5.1    -        Financial Rates of Return
Annex 5.2    -        Pro Forma Financial Projections
Annex 5.3    -        Sensitivity Analysis - Cash Flow Financial Projections
Annex 6.1    -        Economic Analysis
Annex 7.1    -        Policy Letter
MAPS:                 IBRD No. 24912, 27812, 27813
This report is based on the findings of Preappraisal (September, 1995) and Appraisal (January, 1996) missions led
by Michael Levitsky and Peggy Wilson, Task Managers (EC31V). The report was prepared by Michael Levitsky
and Peggy Wilson, with contributions from Yelda Guven, Paul Gallagher, (EC31V), Mohsen Shirazi (IENOG), and
Steven Ward (Consultant). Pervaiz Rashid (EC3DR) provided operational guidance. Peter P. Pease (EC3IV) is the
procurement specialist for the project. The Division Chief and Department Director are Jonathan C. Brown and
Yukon Huang. Johannes F. Linn is the Regional Vice President.



- I11 -
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
Gas System Rehabilitation Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Government of Azerbaijan Republic
Implementing Agency:   Azerigaz
Poverty Category:     Not Applicable
Amount:               SDR 14.1 million (US$20.2 million equivalent)
Terms:                35 years maturity with 10 years grace
Commitment Fee:       0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:      The full amount of the Credit will be onlent by the Govemment of Azerbaijan
to Azerigaz in dollar equivalents at the IBRD's variable interest rate applicable
to currency pool loans. Repayment will be over 20 years including 5 years
grace. Azerigaz will bear the exchange rate risk in dollars, and the Government
will bear the cross-currency risk.
Financing Plan:
(US$ million equivalent)
Financing Source          Local    Foreign     Total      % of
l_____   _________   ______      Total
I.D.A.                                 20.2     20.2       82.3
Azerigaz                    4.4                   4.4       17.7
Total                       4.4        20.2      24.6      100.0
Percentage of Total         17.7       82.3    100.0
Economic Rate of Return:   47%
Economic Net Present Value: US$73 million
Staff Appraisal Report:  15378 AZ
Maps:                    IBRD 24912, 27812, 27813
Project ID Number:       AZ-PA-8287






I. INTRODUCTION
A.   Macroeconomic Setting
1.1   Azerbaijan is one of the oldest petroleum producing regions in the world. The country is also
well-endowed with various natural resources, including fertile agricultural land, a diversified
industrial structure, and a well-educated work force. However, in addition to the problems it shares
with other Former Soviet Union (FSU) countries, its transition to a market economy has been
complicated by regional conflicts. The war with Armenia, which began in 1989, has led to nearly
20 percent of the national territory being under the control of occupation forces, and about 900,000
people (out of a total population of 7.5 million) are refugees or internally displaced persons. While
a cease-fire has been in place since mid-1994, the conflict has been costly in terms of defense
spending, the social and economic costs of occupation, and difficulties in accessing economic
assistance.
1.2    Unprecedented shocks to the economy, stemming from the conflict with Armenia and its
ensuing refugee problems and from the dislocation of trade links among the FSU countries, have
resulted in a continuous decline in output, high inflation, and significant erosion of real wages.
Severance of transport links to traditional markets, owing to the conflict in Chechnya and political
problems with Iran, has compounded the deterioration in external trade and intensified output
contraction. As a consequence, Azerbaijan's GDP was half its 1989 level by the end of 1993, and
is estimated to have contracted by a further 22 percent in 1994. Although the official figures on
output may fail to include some informal sector activities, there is no doubt that the declines have
been particularly severe even relative to other FSU countries.
1.3   Since independence, Azerbaijan has experienced several changes in government and
considerable political instability. However, since late 1994, the current President has appeared to
be in firmer control of the country and government apparatus, to the extent that Parliamentary
elections were held in mid-November of 1995. The Government has also taken a number of
important steps to liberalize economic activity and promote the transition from a centrally managed
to a market economy. A national currency has been introduced, most prices have been liberalized,
some financial sector reforms have been initiated, and a buoyant and rapidly expanding private
sector has emerged in trading activities. A more appropriate legal and institutional framework to
support these reforms is being developed. However, structural reforms, such as privatization, have
been relatively slow to take off.
B.   The Energy Sector
1.4   The energy sector has played a key role in the development of Azerbaijan's economy.
Azerbaijan's initial economic growth was largely driven by oil exports, and by the subsequent
development of industries in support of oil and gas production. However, oil production has fallen
sharply since 1970, and the growth of other industries has reduced the relative importance of the
sector. Gas production has also declined rapidly in recent years, and the country is no longer self
sufficient in energy, and relies on gas imports to meet its energy needs.



-2 -
1.5   The structure of Azerbaijan's energy balance is relatively straight-forward with oil and gas
accounting for about 97 percent of primary energy supply, and hydropower and biomass providing
the remainder (see Annex 1.1). Most non-transport energy demands are met from natural gas or fuel
oil. Power stations are largely designed to use gas, although they can (and currently do) use fuel oil.
Industrial boilers are almost all designed to use gas, and households rely on natural gas for a
significant proportion of their energy requirements - although gas-fired district heating also plays
an important role in urban regions. Residential reliance on natural gas, especially in small towns and
rural areas, is attributable in part to past policies to extend the natural gas network throughout the
country irrespective of whether this was economically viable. However, the Government proposes
in the future to rationalize the gas supply network, confining natural gas supply to major centers and
customers and to meet the energy needs of less densely populated regions with Liquefied Petroleum
Gas (LPG) and liquid fuels. Thus, the energy balance is expected, over time, to shift towards
decreasing reliance on natural gas, at least for customers in rural areas.
1.6   The economy is highly energy intensive, even by the standards of the FSU. In 1990, its fuel
use per unit of GDP was the third highest of the FSU countries. In addition, the severe economic
contraction of recent years has not been accompanied by a proportional decline in energy use. While
energy prices to industries have been steadily increased and now approach economic levels,
industrial customers have generally failed to respond to price signals by improving their efficiency,
choosing instead to accumulate arrears in the absence of actions on the part of energy companies to
cut off supply to non-paying customers. Energy prices to households, at least for essential supplies
such as electricity and gas, remain well below cost recovery, even on a short-run marginal cost basis.
This imposes an additional financial burden on energy suppliers, and acts as a disincentive to
improved efficiency in either supply or consumption.
1.7   Despite its long history of oil production, Azerbaijan could benefit from large remaining oil
resources in newly discovered fields, and the oil sector could again dominate the country's future
development. The Government attaches great importance to private sector involvement in this
development, and has signed agreements with international oil companies regarding the development
of large off-shore oil fields in the Caspian Sea. Initial production under these agreements is expected
in late 1997, with full development after the year 2000. Further agreements are being considered
and negotiated to develop additional fields and to rehabilitate existing oil and gas deposits. Large-
scale development of oil, however, will also require construction of new export pipelines to reach
world markets.
C.    Government Strategy and Bank/IDA Role
1.8   The Government considers a combination of rapid price stabilization, restoration of external
balance, and accelerated structural reform as the only viable route to stability and growth. The
authorities have agreed a macroeconomic program with the IMF, focussing on controlling inflation,
improving external reserves, and limiting accumulation of non-concessional debt. Efforts are under
way to reduce the deficit, liberalize trade and prices, and reform the enterprise sector so as to foster
greater competition and private sector development. A privatization bill has been passed which
provides a framework for privatizing all small and medium-sized enterprises through a combination
of cash-based and voucher-based programs, and also for corporatizing those enterprises which will
remain, at least for some time, in the public sector. At the same time, the Government is taking steps



- 3 -
to reform the social protection system, with a view to better meeting the needs of poor and
vulnerable segments of the population within the limitations of the resources available.
1.9   The Bank is supporting the reform agenda through the extension of IDA Credits. A
Rehabilitation Credit of SDR 41.6 million has been concluded, which focussed on supporting the
program of structural reform of the enterprise sector. A Petroleum Technical Assistance Credit of
SDR 14.3 million is in place to finance studies and advisory services in support of the on-going
development of oil and natural gas resources. A Baku Water Supply Project Credit for SDR 38.8
million has been approved to finance, jointly with EBRD, urgently needed investments in
rehabilitating the water supply system, and an Institution Building Technical Assistance Credit for
SDR 11.5 million is in place to strengthen the capabilities of government institutions.
II. PROJECT CONTEXT AND STRATEGY
A.    Institutional Setting
2.1   The key agencies involved in the supply of gas within Azerbaijan are the State Oil Company
of the Azerbaijan Republic (SOCAR), and the gas transmission/distribution enterprise, Azerigaz.
SOCAR is responsible for gas production, both from offshore and onshore fields. Most of the gas
comes from offshore fields, generally in the form of associated gas; onshore fields account for only
a small fraction of production (0.2 BCM out of 6.7 BCM in 1995). SOCAR uses approximately 1
BCM in its own operations and delivers the balance either to the Karadag gas processing plant (GPP)
or directly into the Azerigaz network. Due to the poor condition of the Karadag plant and inadequate
pipeline infrastructure, less than half of the gas is currently processed; consequently, much of the
gas delivered to Azerigaz is high in both water content and heavier hydrocarbons. Feasibility studies
on replacing the existing GPP are currently underway under the Petroleum Technical Assistance
Project, and dehydration facilities are expected to be installed on existing gas wells in conjunction
with additional compression which will be needed to maintain their output. However in the interim,
the water content in particular imposes a cost in terms of accelerated deterioration of the gas
transmission and distribution facilities.
2.2   Azerigaz purchases gas from SOCAR and other sources, and distributes it to over 1 million
customers (residential, industrial and communal services) through a number of regional operating
departments.' Until the early 1990's, gas from Turkmenistan was also shipped through Azerbaijan
from the North Caucasus to Georgia and Armenia; this flow has virtually ceased, however, as a
result of both the war with Armenia and the economic problems in the region. Azerigaz was formed
in 1992 through the merging of the gas transmission operations of Aztransgas with the branches of
the State Fuel Committee responsible for gas and LPG distribution to customers. Azerbaijan is
among the most widely gasified countries in the world, and the gas transmission/distribution network
extends to over 80 percent of the population, and comprises 4,500 km of high pressure transmission
lines, 7 compressor stations and over 31,000 km of medium and low pressure distribution lines. In
addition to natural gas supply, Azerigaz also has departments responsible for gas storage (with sites
at Kalmas and Karadag), supply of LPG, pipeline construction and maintenance, scientific research
I     There are 18 regional transmission branches and 12 regional distribution companies.



- 4 -
and planning, equipment production and banking. An organization chart for the Company is
provided in Annex 2.1.
2.3    Considerable progress has been made in rationalizing the operations of the company. Total
employment has been cut from 22,000 to its current level of approximately 16,000. In addition, the
company has recently proposed further consolidation of some of its research and maintenance
activities, and plans to devolve some of its non-core activities such as construction and LPG
distribution. However. there is still room for further rationalization and improved efficiency.
Operations are scattered among a number of offices, activities are extensively duplicated, and lines
of communication and authority are weak. Furthermore, company staff have had little access to
modem management tools and techniques (computers, training) to assist them in upgrading their
operations.
2.4   The pipeline network itself is generally in a poor state of repair. Minimal funds have been
available in recent years to carry out maintenance or to replace pipe that has passed its design life.
Compression is inadequate, both offshore and onshore, and Azerigaz has used high pressure imports
from Turkmenistan in order to maintain reasonable delivery pressures in the outlying regions.
System losses are very high, averaging 15 percent. Of this, at least 10 percent is estimated to be non-
technical losses - i.e. gas which is used by customers but not billed as a result of faulty or absent
meters, meter tampering or illegal connections. The remaining 5 percent is believed to be technical
losses from system leakage. However, the exact split between technical and non-technical losses
is difficult to establish since metering of the system is incomplete. While city gate stations and most
large customers are metered, the meters are old, and are often faulty, inappropriately sized or
inaccurate. Smaller enterprises and almost all residential customers are not metered but are billed
based on "norms" - consumption units which are linked to other indicators such as the size of the
service pipe, number of occupants, types of equipment installed, etc.2 While generally the norms
are substantially higher than the measured consumption of similar types of equipment in other
countries, they are insufficient to account for the full amount of gas which is supplied.
B.    Supply/Demand Outlook
2.5    Azerbaijan's gas production has declined precipitously in recent years, from a high of
approximately 13 BCM in 1986 to an estimated 6.7 BCM in 1995 (of which approximately 5.7 BCM
was available for sale to customers). While demand has also declined steadily since 1990, imports
have been restricted due to the rise in Turkmen gas prices to "world levels", and it has been
necessary to curtail gas use in power generation through substitution with fuel oil. In 1994, imports
accounted for 2.2 BCM, or 30 percent of Azerigaz's total gas supply. The decline in domestic
supply was partially offset in 1994 with the installation (by the U.S. company Pennzoil) of a
compressor at the Oil Rocks field to allow capture of up to 1.4 BCM/yr of gas from the Guneshli
field which was previously vented. However, the outlook for domestic supply shows little likelihood
of additional improvement until the new offshore oil fields approach full development (not expected
until post-2000), and could in fact deteriorate further unless investments are undertaken to redress
some of the major problems. While some of these investments are relatively modest (e.g.
2     "Norms" are used as a basis for residential gas billing in much of the FSU, including the Russian
Federation.



approximately US$6 million for piping systems to recapture 0.4 BCM of gas currently being vented),
others, such as installation of additional compressor capacity at some of the declining fields, would
require investments in excess of US$ 1 00 million.
2.6   Total gas consumption fell from 17 BCM in 1990 to approximately 7.5 BCM in 1994, but
a large part of the reduction came from curtailment of supply to the power sector. Between 1992 and
1994, most of the remaining decline in sales was accounted for by industrial customers, whose
consumption fell by 0.9 BCM or 25 percent in 1993 and by a further 0.3 BCM or 13 percent in 1994.
Figures for 1995 show an additional 10 percent decline over the previous year. In part, however, this
drop may be attributable to the Government decision to curtail imports in 1995 (see para 2.9).
Communal sales have also declined over the period. However, demand by residential customers has
remained relatively constant, and hence has increased as a share of total consumption.
2.7   Recent experience, together with the short-term outlook for weak industrial growth, suggests
a continuing decline in industrial consumption which is unlikely to be reversed in the near future,
particularly if payment discipline is imposed and supply is cut off to non-paying customers. The
forecast therefore uses 1994 as a base year, and assumes that industrial consumption will fall by 25
percent through 1998 (when it is expected that offshore oil developments will begin to revitalize the
economy), and increase by 1 percent per annum thereafter. Zero growth has been projected in
residential and communal sales, on the basis that the positive effects of income and population
growth and of cross-price elasticities would be offset by improved end-use efficiency, and by
rationalization of the rural gas network and hence a reduction in the number of customers served.
2.8   Table 2.1 below shows the gas supply/demand balances from 1992 through to the year 2000.
Supply projections assume that no large investments are undertaken during this period to increase
domestic gas production, but include approximately 0.4 BCM per year of supply as a result of early
oil development in 1999 and 2000. Generally, the projections indicate an increasing dependency on
imported gas, despite the drop in consumption, with required imports almost doubling from 2.2
BCM in 1994 to 4 BCM in 2000.



- 6 -
Table 2.1
Gas Supply/Demand Balances
(million cubic meters)
-------Actual-------          ---------Projected ---------
1992   1993   1994   1995*   1996   1997   1998   1999  2000
Domestic                7,844  7,005  6,143   6,665   5,217  4,524  4,271   4,093 3,830
production**
SOCAR Use              1,000   1,000    790    988    800    800    800    800   800
Available Supply        6,844  6,005   5,353   5,677  4,417  3,724  3,471   3,293 3,030
Consumption
Industrial             3,437  2,579  2,248  2,049   1,833   1,758   1,686   1,703 1,720
Communal               1,941   1,525   1,552   1,226   1,552   1,552   1,552   1,552 1,552
Residential            2,450  2,871   2,686  2,447  2,686  2,686  2,686  2,686 2,686
Power Generation       1,621   1,455
Losses (15%)           1,445    854   1,050    712   1,071   1,058   1,045   1,048 1,051
Total Consumption"**   10,894  9,284  7,536  6,434  7,142  7,054  6,969  6,989 7,009
Required Imports        4,050  3,279  2,183    594  2,725  3,330  3,498  3,696 3,979
*      While projected required imports were 1.6 BCM for 1995, the Government limited imports during the
year to only 594 million m3. The shortfall of over I billioA m between planned (projected) and actual
consumption was met by reductions in residential consumption (240 million m3) and communal consumption (300
million m3) relative to projections, by withdrawal of approximately 160 million m3 from storage, and by reduced
losses and own use, partly as a result of lower volumes.
**     Assuming no major new investment in gas production.
***    Excluding net transfers to storage.
C.    Issues
2.9    Gas Supply: As noted above, domestic gas supply has been dropping rapidly in recent years,
and, unless substantial investment is undertaken in compression, collection systems and well
rehabilitation, is likely to continue to decline over at least the next 5 years. In the past, Azerbaijan
has filled the increasing gap between demand and supply with imports, both from Turkmenistan and
from Iran. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, however, Turkmenistan increased prices for gas
to world parity levels, while the Iranians increased their export prices to even higher levels. As a
result of poor customer payments and inadequate margins, Azerigaz was unable in 1994 to pay for
the Turkmen gas and incurred a debt of approximately $81 million. Agreement was reached with
Turkmenistan for repayment of this debt in approximately equal installments over 4 years, and
Azerigaz was meeting the proposed schedule.3 The Government, however, decided that it was
3      By May 1, 1996, Azerigaz had paid off over $40 million of the debt, and expect to repay the remaining
outstanding balance by the end of the year.



- 7 -
unacceptable to incur further foreign currency debts for gas supply, particularly when gas losses are
high, and instructed that no further gas would be imported during the winter of 1995/96. Supply has
been cut-off to most of the country and gas is being supplied in full only to Baku and Sumgait4.
Meanwhile, SOCAR has been ordered to increase gas production, although there does not appear
to be a coordinated plan as to how this can be done either technically, economically or financially.
The Government has not made any official statements with regard to its intentions beyond the
1995/96 winter. The projections of domestic supply suggest, however, that if the ban on imports is
extended, more severe supply curtailments will be needed.
2.10   The Bank has questioned these decisions on a number of grounds. First, the restriction of
supply does not, in itself, address the problem of losses. Non-technical losses (which are the major
issue) can only be addressed through a comprehensive program of metering and a strong corporate
effort to identify and prosecute fraudulent uses. Secondly, not providing gas to a significant segment
of the population raises the demands for other forms of energy such as fuelwood, LPG and kerosene,
whose economic costs could exceed the cost of gas imports.5 Generating additional electricity
requires additional fuel oil, which could otherwise be exported or used in other domestic
applications, and the stability of the electricity distribution system could be jeopardized if loads
increase significantly. The relatively high prices of kerosene, LPG and fuelwood will stretch the
budgets of the population, and may not be affordable to the poor. (Annex 2.2 provides a comparison
of the unit cost of alternative household fuels). Use of fuelwood is also damaging to the
environment. In addition, these substitute fuels may not be available in sufficient quantities to meet
the increased demand. Filling the gap will require imports (official or unofficial) of LPG and liquid
fuels, or changes in the pattern of domestic supply (changes in the refining mix, investments in
additional distribution facilities, etc.). Lack of gas for fuel also affects industrial outputs. Some of
these impacts were already being observed at the time of appraisal (January, 1996). The overall
economic cost of curtailing gas supply probably exceeds the savings on gas imports.
2.11  The Governnent needs to take a more integrated, long-term view of the issue of gas supply,
rather than continuing to manage supply on a "crisis" basis. Feasibility studies are needed on the
options for increasing domestic supply, both to ensure that the options are economic and to attract
necessary investment funds.6 In addition, the question of restrictions on imports needs to be re-
assessed in the context of the impact on the total economy. If gas is being wasted, either through
losses or through use by non-productive sectors of the economy, these problems should be addressed
through appropriate metering and pricing. Denying supply to large segments of the country, while
continuing to indiscriminately supply other regions does little to resolve the problem.
2.12   Gas Prices: The system of gas pricing in Azerbaijan is seriously distorted. These distortions
directly contravene long-term objectives of increasing the supply of domestic gas, encouraging
4      The limitation in the areas supplied is attributable in part to the fact that Azerigaz's compression problems
have been aggravated by the loss of high pressure Turkmen gas.
5     In the Survey of Living Conditions carried out in November/December 1995 in conjunction with the
ongoing World Bank Poverty Assessment, over 40 percent of the population reported using fuelwood as their
primary fuel for heating and cooking.
6     Studies on rehabilitation of mature offshore fields are being undertaken as part of the Petroleum Technical
Assistance Project.



-8 -
efficient use of gas by customers, and preserving the financial viability of the gas company. Gas
purchased from SOCAR is priced at US$10.80/MCM equivalent ($9.00/MCM to SOCAR, plus 20
percent royalty)7. Gas imports from Turkmenistan are priced nominally at US$80.00/MCM, but
payment is made in commodities and the effective price is estimated to be approximately
US$43.00/MCM. Including 15 percent losses, the effective cost of gas sold is $12.40/MCM from
SOCAR and $49.50/MCM from Turkmenistan. Selling prices to customers are similarly distorted,
both across sectors and relative to gas purchase prices, with residential prices at $2.80/MCM8, as
compared with $23.60/MCM for communal and $53.30/MCM for industrial use.
2.13   With respect to stimulating domestic supply of gas, while the current price to SOCAR of
$9.00/MCM is more realistic than the previous price of $3.50/MCM, it is unlikely to be sufficient
in the long term to attract the funding needed to develop significant additional gas supplies.9
Consequently, the recent gas price increase must be viewed as first step in a longer term program
which provides adequate incentives for increased gas production. This will also require suitable long
term purchase contracts. The Government has confirmed its intention to undertake, within a
reasonable time frame, a review of the producer pricing system for gas which addresses the
investment needs of gas development and also the need to attract foreign investment to gas
development projects. In addition, the arrears problem needs to be urgently addressed (see para
2.23). High prices will not be a sufficient incentive for development without corresponding
assurances that the gas will be paid for.
2.14   As regards the financial viability of the gas company, while Azerigaz currently has a positive
spread between average selling and purchase prices, the situation is tenuous. The positive balance
could be quickly eradicated by small shifts in either the proportion of sales to the higher tariff
customers (industrial and communal) or the proportion of imports to total gas supply. Furthermore,
the spread or margin currently budgeted in the tariff to cover operating and maintenance costs and
depreciation on the transmission and distribution systems is less than US$2.00/MCM, which is
inadequate even given the relatively low cost of local inputs, and certainly does not leave a margin
for capital expenditures.'" Based on the projected supply/demand balance shown in Table 2.1
(including essential imports in 1996) and the current pricing structure, Azerigaz's costs of gas supply
would exceed revenues in 1996 by approximately US$27 million - equivalent to a loss of
$4.40/MCM of sales."
7      Prior to November 1, 1995, the price to SOCAR was equivalent to only US$3.50/MCM.
8      The residential price was increased from $1.40/MCM to $2.80/MCM from June 1, 1996 as a condition of
Project Negotiations.
9      The compressor and pipeline sections which were constructed at Oil Rocks, for example, cost $160 million
and yielded incremental supplies of approximately 1.4 BCM per year. At a 10% cost of capital and 10 year
amortization, this equates to a cost of roughly $18.50/MCM.
10     By contrast, average distribution margins on gas sales in Russia are in excess of USS5.00/MCM. In
addition, the Russian margin excludes the costs of transmission to the city gate.
I I    If import curtailment continues, the projected supply/demand balance, which preserves current market
shares for each sector, would provide an adequate margin on 1996 sales at current prices. However, the economic
and social costs of the curtailment are viewed as unacceptably high, and financial viability remains vulnerable to
small shifts in sectoral shares of the market.



- 9 -
2.15  In order to ensure the financial viability of the sector, gas prices to consumers will have to
increase. There is little scope for further increases in industrial gas prices, which are already close
to parity with the economic (and financial) costs of alternative fuels. Hence, price increases will
have to focus on the residential and communal sectors. Residential prices in particular need to be
adjusted. Not only are they below the short run cost of supply, but they are only a fraction of the
cost of alternative fuels, and are significantly less than prices in other FSU countries (see Annex 2.2).
The Government has therefore agreed to maintain all prices at not less than their current levels in
real terms, and to make quarterly upward adjustments to communal and residential gas prices as
necessary so as to ensure Azerigaz an average annual operating margin of at least US$4.00/MCM
equivalent (in constant 1996 dollars) based on reasonable projections of gas sales and purchases.
In addition, as an indication of commitment to price reform, the Government agreed to implement
a two-times increase in residential gas prices (to 12,700 manats/MCM or US$2.80 equivalent), as
a condition of Credit negotiations. The Government has also agreed, by January 31, 1997, to prepare
a schedule acceptable to IDA for further increases in residential gas prices to equate them to at least
the cost of gas purchases. This schedule would be coordinated with both the introduction of
residential meters and the development of a mechanism to protect low-income households from
adverse impacts of price increases (see para 2.17 and 2.19).
2.16 Coordination of Energy Policy: Responsibility for the energy sector in Azerbaijan is
divided among a number of government agencies (Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy,
Cabinet of Ministers, Office of the President) and state-owned enterprises (SOCAR, Azerigaz, the
State Fuel Committee, Azerenerji, etc). In the absence of a coordinating unit, which can research
issues and advise the Government on sector-wide implications of policies, decisions are sometimes
taken to address a problem in one area which have substantial adverse impacts in other areas. An
example is the recent decision to terminate gas imports from Turkmenistan. The implications of this
decision on the demands for electricity and other fuels, on the environment, on the social welfare of
the population outside the major urban centers, and on the financial viability of Azerigaz do not seem
to have been fully taken into account in evaluating the net benefits of the scheme. The Government
has been strongly urged to establish, if not an energy ministry, at least an energy coordinating
commission which could prepare an integrated energy strategy for the country, and provide policy
recommendations to the Governnent for its consideration.
2.17  Gas Meters: A comprehensive program of extending metering to all customers is an urgent
priority in Azerbaijan, to reduce non-technical losses attributable to inadequate norms, to reduce
opportunities for fraud and illegal connections, and to provide Azerigaz with essential information
on gas flows and technical losses. Meters are also essential if customers are to have an incentive to
use gas more efficiently. The proposed project will finance the metering of all major industrial and
commercial customers, and will finance improved instrumentation at city gate stations. However,
the full benefits of metering will only be achieved once meters are also installed at households.
Household meters will also help to alleviate the impacts of increases in residential gas prices, since
households will be able to control their gas bills by opting to reduce their consumption. Azerigaz
and the Government have therefore agreed to develop, by January 31, 1997, a program to extend
metering to cover all residential customers, with priority assigned to the coverage of single-family



- 10-
dwellings and apartments which use gas for multiple purposes (e.g., cooking, heating, hot water)"2.
The program will include a timetable for completion, and a financing plan to cover the cost of the
meters and of their installation.
2.18   Social Impacts of Gas Price Increases: Affordability of gas supply is an issue of major
concern for a significant segment of the population, and care will have to be taken to ensure that
relief is provided in cases of genuine hardship. However, affordability and the social impacts of
price increases have also been used by the Government as an argument against any meaningful
increase in residential prices. In fact, uniformly low prices result in a substantial transfer of welfare
to the wealthy, who receive their gas at the same price as the poor, and may in fact consume larger
volumes as they have larger dwellings and may use appliances more intensively. In addition, the
concern over affordability may be exaggerated. Prior to the recent doubling of residential gas prices,
a typical household using gas for heating, hot water and cooking was paying under 1 percent of
monthly income for gas (approximately 2,000 manats or 45 cents per month, as compared with an
average stated household income of $55.00'3). There is substantial scope to increase prices for
households at average and above average incomes, and a 7 to 10 times increase should not be
unreasonable. Moreover, the billing norms (i.e. the amounts of gas for which customers are charged)
are significantly higher than the measured consumption of western households for similar
applications.'4 This would suggest that, once meters are installed, many households may find that
their gas costs decrease by virtue of proper measurement, while others will be able to decrease their
costs by taking basic steps to conserve gas (such as turning off the cooker when it is not in use).
2.19 While households at and above average income levels would not be unduly affected by
significant increases in residential gas prices, households in the lowest income deciles could have
difficulty in accommodating higher gas costs. (A more detailed analysis of the distribution of
incomes and expenditures is contained in Annex 2.3). With a 10-fold increase in prices, basic
quantities of gas for cooking and heating would cost over 10 percent of income for low income
households (defined as the average of the first 3 income deciles) in the winter months. Arguably,
some of these households are already paying even higher proportions of income for energy, since
the recent curtailment in gas supply has forced them to use higher cost fuels. Provision should be
made for a targeted program of income support to ensure that lower income households can afford
an adequate supply of energy. Proposals in this regard are currently being evaluated in consultation
with the Poverty Assessment team, and the Government has agreed that a targeted mitigation
program for low-income households from adverse impacts of higher energy prices will be initiated
in conjunction with the proposed program of residential gas price increases. Some of the cost of
12    Metering of individual apartments, particularly where gas is used only for cooking, may not be cost
effective. In these cases, consideration can be given to installing meters either on risers or for the building as a
whole, and allowing tenants to agree a basis for apportioning the bill among individual units.
13    Preliminary data, Azerbaijan Survey of Living Conditions, carried out in November/December 1995 in
conjunction with the ongoing World Bank Poverty Assessment.
14    For example, norms for cooking and water heating are 31.5 m3/person/month - or 126 m3/month for a 4
person household. By comparison, metered household consumption in Germany for cooking and water heating is
approximately 33 m3/month.



- I1 -
such a program could be covered by eliminating poorly targeted gas subsidies, such as those now
accorded to teachers and working pensioners."5
2.20 Institutional Issues: As noted above, Azerigaz was created by the merger of a number of
disparate entities. System-wide, it has some 16,000 employees, operating in a number of geographic
regions. Notwithstanding the decentralization of many activities, strategic planning and decision-
making are tightly controlled at the senior management level. As a state owned enterprise, Azerigaz
has not been encouraged, or even allowed to operate on a commercial basis. Prices, margins and
service policies are set by the central government, and funds for capital expenditures are allotted
from central budgets, often based on the availability of funds for particular transactions rather than
on the prioritization of investment requirements and competitive selection of the most cost-effective
technology.
2.21   Azerigaz has put forward proposals for its conversion to an independent joint stock company,
and has prepared a draft charter for government review. Any restructuring will be carried out within
the context of the Government's current privatization program. Given the lack of a legislative or
regulatory framework for the gas sector, privatization would be premature at this time. However,
corporatization should move forward, initially with a view to introducing a more commercial
orientation into the company's operations, including separate accountability on the part of the
various operating divisions. Transparency of transactions between divisions is important, especially
between transmission and distribution activities. Ultimately, the objective would be the separation
of transmission and distribution. Social services should be transferred to the public sector.
Competitive service activities (e.g. construction) can be spun off. Private participation in some or
all of the activities can be introduced once the proper regulatory framework is in place. This
objective should be taken into account in defining the corporate structure, possibly through a holding
company/subsidiary structure which divides operating assets among the various operating divisions.
The Government has issued a Presidential Decree ordering the establishment of Azerigas as a joint
stock society, with shares held initially by the State Property Committee. The Government agreed
to complete the corporatization process by September 30, 1996 under a charter which reflects the
commercial focus of the company, and also the ultimate separability of its various activities. The
Government has also expressed its commitment to timely passage of a gas legislation, based in part
on work to be undertaken with EU-TACIS financing.
2.22  A related issue under the subject of institutional reform is the immediate need to address
major problems in LPG supply. LPG bottling and distribution is currently handled by one of
Azerigaz's operating departments. While supply has declined dramatically in recent years, it is
expected to increase as petroleum output rises and new gas processing facilities are constructed.
LPG demand is also expected to rise in conjunction with overall growth in incomes and
rationalization of the rural natural gas supply system. (Annex 2.4 provides additional background
detail on the current structure of the LPG industry.) However, in order to serve expected market
growth, substantial investments will be needed to acquire new and replacement equipment, both for
bottling and transport. It has been proposed to meet these investment needs by separating Azerigaz's
LPG operation from the rest of the company, and soliciting private participation (either whole or
partial) in its operations and development. The Government has expressed its agreement to establish
15    About 50% of residential consumers benefit from concessions on gas tariffs, ranging from 10% to 100%.



- 12-
LPG distribution as a separate company, and to privatize it in a manner which attracts significant
investment from a qualified foreign company, while maintaining competitive conditions for LPG
distribution. The Government plans to use funds available under the Institution Building Technical
Assistance (TA) Project to support the privatization process, within the framework of the overall
privatization program.
2.23  Accounts Receivable: Accounts receivable are a problem throughout the economy, but tend
to focus ultimately in the energy sector because, for legal, political and often technical reasons,
customers continue to be supplied even though they are not paying for the energy they receive. All
of the energy enterprises in Azerbaijan are running substantial arrears in collections. Enterprises
which supply end users (Azerenerji, Azerigaz, the State Fuel Committee and the district heating
companies) are unable to collect in a timely manner, if at all. In turn, they are building up arrears
among themselves and with SOCAR and the SOCAR refineries. Azerigaz's accounts receivable
from customers total approximately 300 billion manats - of which approximately 180 billion manats
is due from Azerenerji - and Azerigaz in turn owes corresponding amounts to SOCAR.
2.24  The buildup of arrears causes serious problems both for the enterprises and for the
Government. Productive companies are unable to generate the cash needed to purchase supplies and
equipment and to pay workers. They are also unable to reimburse the Government for taxes due.
Those which can access commercial credit are obliged to borrow, at high cost, to meet their
obligations. The impact of price increases, in terms of encouraging increased production or more
efficient use of resources, is weakened. In addition, enterprises which are no longer productive or
economic continue to consume scarce resources, operating on the credit which is provided,
involuntarily, by their suppliers. Finally, the real value of accounts receivable erodes over time with
inflation.
2.25  Azerigaz has taken a number of actions to manage the accounts receivable problem, including
arranging mutual settlements, cutting off customers where possible, and accepting goods in lieu of
cash settlements. However, they are still burdened with substantial and growing debts from the
power company (Azerenerji), budget organizations, and some of the larger state-owned industrial
enterprises, all of whom continue to be supplied with gas because it is either politically or legally
impossible to cut off supply. The Government has been urged to take immediate action to address
the issue of arrears at a national level, both to reduce existing arrears and prevent the accumulation
of further debts, and has passed a decree (No. 13, February 7, 1996) which requires end-users to pay
in advance for further supply of goods and services. However, in the case of the gas subsector, the
Government has only allowed partial implementation of the decree. The right to refuse further
supply to any customers who are not current on payments is essential if Azerigaz is to successfully
manage its payment arrears. Additional remedies, such as the right to attach assets of non-paying
customers, to impose severe penalties for non-payment, to demand prepayment for supply, or to
receive government compensation in the event that cut-offs are prohibited, could also be applied to
supplement the right to curtail supply. The Government and Azerigaz have therefore agreed to a
time-bound Action Plan to address arrears in the gas distribution sector. Specifically, the Plan
specifies dates after which Azerigaz would be required to supply to all customers on a prepayment
or letter of credit basis, with the exception of those agencies which are specifically exempted by the
Government. Further, in the event that these exempted agencies fail to make timely payment for gas



- 13 -
received, the Government commits to making prompt payment on their behalf Details of the Action
Plan are given in Annex 2.5.
D.    Project Design Strategy
2.26   Given Azerbaijan's limited borrowing capacity and the constraints associated with IDA
funding, it has been agreed to focus initial lending to the gas subsector on items which address the
primary concerns of high gas losses, low efficiency of use, and high costs of maintaining the
operating integrity of the network. Hence, the project focuses on metering, upgrading of the
cathodic protection system, equipment for leak detection and gas quality analysis, and a limited
amount of TA to assist in project implementation and support the corporatization of Azerigaz.
Implementation of these initiatives should improve the cost-effectiveness of Azerigaz's operations,
which in turn will increase the funds available for additional investments. Larger investments are
required, in gas storage, the transmission system and in gas processing. However, these can only
be initiated once considerable additional detailed preparatory work has been undertaken.6
2.27   From the policy perspective, agreements have been obtained which will further improve the
financial position of Azerigaz (e.g. pricing, accounts receivable). In addition, initial steps will be
undertaken to corporatize Azerigaz, with the longer term objective of enabling the company to
operate on a commercial basis, enhancing its access to debt and equity financing, improving its
operating efficiency, and increasing the value of the Government's interest in the enterprise.
E.    Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.28   As noted in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which is to be discussed by the Board
concurrently with this project, the Bank's basic objective is to assist Azerbaijan in achieving a
balanced transition to a market economy. With regard to energy and energy infrastructure, there is a need
in the near term to maintain a basic provision of essential services to the population and to evolving
enterprises, while at the same time minimizing budgetary transfers. In the long term, a reliable, efficient and
financially self-sustaining system of energy supply is necessary for sustainable development. The proposed
Project promotes these objectives by supporting rehabilitation of existing facilities, reduction of gas losses,
and corporatization of the gas distribution sector. The Project will also encourage more efficient use of gas,
which will help to reduce energy costs, cut import requirements and increase foreign exchange available for
other uses. Private sector support for investments in natural gas infrastructure is constrained by the fact that
no direct export revenues are available and returns are dependent on a still-evolving regulatory system.
However, the project will facilitate Azerigaz's transition to a commercially-based operation and will support
development of a legal and regulatory framework for the sector, which are important first steps in
introducing a market-based sector organization, as well as attracting future private sector participation. The
privatization of the LPG business, within the policy framework of the project, will assist in broadening
private involvement in the energy sector.
16    A detailed feasibility study of underground storage investment is being funded by EU-TACIS in parallel
with this Project, at a cost of about $1.5 million.



- 14-
F.    Lessons Learned from Past Operations
2.29  Bank financed projects in Azerbaijan are only at the initial stages of implementation.
However, experience to date with investment projects such as the Baku Water Supply Project and
the Petroleum TA Project has shown that, as in other FSU countries, institutional capacity is limited,
and responsibilities are often not well defined among government departments and enterprises.
There is also a lack of local familiarity with Bank procedures, particularly as regards procurement,
and the practical aspects of implementation, such as international communications and language
difficulties, can create delays. Bank practice in other FSU countries has been to devote a
considerable effort to general institution building and training among counterpart agencies and
government departments, to provide for a substantial degree of support to the project implementation
unit (PIU) within the project budget, and to allow for above-average levels of supervision effort.
The establishment of a fully-staffed Resident Mission in early 1996 has helped to resolve some of
the practical difficulties, and has improved coordination with and among government agencies.
2.30  The World Bank has financed a number of gas distribution and transmission projects.
Among the most pertinent lessons which have been learned are: (a) the importance of defining fully
the institutional framework for natural gas, including enterprise autonomy and regulation; (b) the
need for clear targets for gas price reform and for financial viability of gas enterprises; (c) the
importance of institutional strengthening of gas enterprises, coupled with the need for a long-term
approach to the process; (d) the importance of strengthening the contractual and operating relations
between the gas company, the gas suppliers, and the major gas consumers; and (e) the importance
of integrating gas supply forecasts with gas system investments. Along with assurances of financial
viability through appropriate pricing policies, it is also critical to ensure counterpart funding as
required.
III. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Origin and Formulation
3.1    The Energy Sector Review carried out in 1993 ' emphasized the importance of natural gas
as a source of energy in Azerbaijan, but also recognized the need to improve the efficiency of gas
production, transport and use. In September 1993, the Japanese Government provided a grant to the
Government of Azerbaijan to finance a project preparation study, which would identify priority
investment requirements in gas transmission and distribution, and serve as a basis for project lending
by the World Bank and other international lending agencies. The consultants engaged to undertake
the project preparatory work found that the gas transmission/distribution enterprise, Azerigaz, was
suffering from a lack of investment in new capital equipment, replacement parts and modernization.
Existing metering equipment was outdated and inaccurate, the network was in a poor state of repair,
operations and maintenance of the pipeline systems were highly labor intensive and obsolete
equipment was often not replaced. Losses, both technical and non-technical, were high, and there
was little incentive to conserve energy. The consultants' report identified a number of necessary
investments, and outlined a priority program with a foreign cost of approximately US$90 million.
17    World Bank, Azerbaijan Energy Sector Review, Report No. 12061-AZ, December 27, 1993.



- 15 -
This included metering, pipe replacement, gas dehydration units, laboratory and testing equipment,
construction equipment, detailed reservoir studies and essential maintenance for the storage facilities,
equipment for LPG distribution, cathodic protection and planning studies for future network
development. The total amount of investment which was identified as being required in the medium
term is substantially higher (over $150 million), but further feasibility work is needed, particularly
as regards development and rehabilitation of transmission, gas treatment and storage facilities.
3.2    As a result of the restricted borrowing capability of the Government, together with the need
to allocate resources among a number of sectors, it was not possible to meet the full investment
needs of the gas subsector in the first Credit. Accordingly, based on detailed analysis of the costs
and benefits of various components, Azerigaz and the Bank defined a more limited project,
consisting of priority investments which would address the most pressing problems of the sector,
would yield high and early returns, and would contribute to long-term viability of the sector.
3.3   It was agreed that the proposed project would focus on the primary concerns of high gas
losses, low efficiency of use, and high costs of maintaining the operating integrity of the network.
Hence, the project includes metering, upgrading of the cathodic protection system, equipment for
leak detection and gas quality analysis, and a limited amount of TA and equipment to support project
implementation and the corporatization of Azerigaz. Implementation of these initiatives should
improve the cost-effectiveness of Azerigaz's operations, which in turn will increase the funds
available for additional investments.
B.    Project Objectives
3.4    The principal objectives of the proposed project are to::
(a)   promote more efficient use of gas and reduce non-technical losses by replacing
obsolete and inaccurate metering, improving measurement instrumentation, installing
meters where none presently exist, and establishing associated meter proving
facilities;
(b)   improve the physical accounting for gas and encourage an improved commercial
basis for gas trading through the upgrading of metering and instrumentation;
(c)   ensure the efficient operation and preserve the value of the existing pipeline assets
through investments in cathodic protection, gas analysis and leak detection
equipment; and,
(d)   support the commercialization of Azerigaz and further development of the sector
through technical assistance, training programs and the acquisition of modem office
equipment.



-16-
C.    Project Description
3.5    The project is divided into four main components, each of which has several sub-
components. The components are: (a) metering; (b) cathodic protection (CP) rehabilitation; (c)
analytical equipment; and (d) corporatization support.
3.6    Metering: The metering component includes: (a) rehabilitation of the city gate meter
stations throughout Azerbaijan by replacing the existing instrumentation or by replacing the entire
meter at some stations; (b) installing new meters at industrial and large commercial consumers who
currently have no meters; and (c) rehabilitating the metering at the industrial consumers who
currently have meters by either replacing the meters or replacing the measuring instrumentation. In
addition, financing will be provided to acquire related meter proving equipment and equipment
packages to facilitate meter installation.
3.7    City Gate Stations: Approximately 214 meter sets at the city gate stations will be
rehabilitated or replaced under the project. This includes all the city gate stations which are currently
in operation in Azerbaijan and those industries which are fed directly from the main high pressure
pipeline. The program covers all of the locations where gas is currently delivered from the main
transmission pipelines. As a result, an improved measurement accounting will be achieved for the
gas sector within the country. Instrumentation rehabilitation will include installing flow computers,
transmitters and power supplies on existing orifice flow meters. The feasibility studies have shown
that the main cause of the existing inaccurate measurement is obsolete and faulty instrumentation.
3.8    New and Replacement Meters: Approximately 465 industrial and large commercial
consumers are currently operating without metering and these will have meters installed.
Approximately 690 industrial and large non-industrial consumers are currently operating with meters
which are either not functioning or are obsolete and inaccurate. The larger consumers will have
instrumentation replaced and some consumers will also have the meters replaced, where this is
justified. Initially, the meters will be procured as pre-assembled skid mounted packages to simplify
installation.
3.9    Meter Proving Equipment: Meter proving equipment will also be purchased for each meter
type and housed in appropriately constructed facilities that will meet international standards. This
would satisfy the requirement of the Azerbaijan State Standards Committee and would allow a
meter testing program for Azerbaijan comparable to international norms. A signed agreement to be
initiated between the State Standard Committee and Azerigaz on Project implementation procedure
was sent to the Bank on February 21, 1996.
3.10   Installation Equipment: This component includes three vehicles equipped with lifting and
welding equipment and necessary tools to modernize and facilitate installation of meter sets.
3.11   Cathodic Protection System Rehabilitation: The cathodic protection of the pipeline
system throughout Azerbaijan is in poor condition and in need of rehabilitation, largely as a result
of a lack of funds for investment. The CP rehabilitation component would focus on the Apsheron
peninsula and cover about 2,700 km of pipelines serving that area. This area was selected because
it is where most of the gas is currently transported and consumed, and for safety reasons as this is



- 17-
the area of highest population density. The rehabilitation program would include electrically
isolating the pipelines into discrete sections, designing the detailed CP requirements for each section
and installing the required CP equipment. A specialized consultant would assist Azerigaz in the
initial isolation of two sections, one on the transmission system and another one on the distribution
network, carrying out the design, and training Azerigaz to continue the work. In addition to the CP
equipment, an allowance for approximately 900 tons of large diameter pipe has been included in the
cost estimate. This would be used to replace seriously corroded pipe which is discovered during
implementation.
3.12   Analytical Equipment: This component consists of three sub-components: (a) gas quality
test equipment; (b) leak detection equipment; and (c) computer software and hardware to undertake
network modeling. The gas quality test equipment would upgrade Azerigaz's gas analysis capability,
and would include gas sampling and analysis equipment to verify gas quality and heat content, and
improve gas accounting. The equipment would be used for on-site testing of gas supply by SOCAR
to Azerigaz, and housed in Karadag in a suitably constructed building in line with international
norms. The operational procedures for this gas testing center will be included in the supply
agreement to be signed between Azerigaz and SOCAR (para. 4.3). Leak detection equipment would
replace the existing equipment which is obsolete and in many cases not working; and network
modeling tools would assist Azerigaz in carrying out engineering analysis for system capacity and
design.
3.13  Corporatization Support: The Corporatization Support component of the project includes:
(a) assistance in project implementation; (b) training for Azerigaz staff; and (c) upgrading of office
equipment. Implementation assistance, which will be provided by consultants, would include
assistance in procurement, engineering, project management and accounting, and implementation
supervision (PEMS). Training would include assistance with company organization and
management and training in modern procedures for commercial operation (planning, budgeting,
finance, accounting, marketing, human resources management). Office equipment includes the
purchase of computer hardware and software to assist gas accounting, financial accounting, and
technical groups. An allowance has also been made for items of equipment and technical assistance
to support commercialization of Azerigaz, which will be identified as the process of corporatization
moves forward.
D.   Cost Estimate
3.14  The total project cost including physical and price contingencies is estimated at US$24.6
million equivalent, of which US$20.2 million, or about 82 percent, is the foreign exchange cost.
Physical contingencies were estimated at 15 percent of base cost on all items. Price contingencies
were estimated using the standard MUV index and the average price contingency is about 8 percent.
Since Azerigaz will not be subject to Value Added Tax (VAT) and import duties, these costs have
been excluded from the total project costs. Interest during construction will be borne by Azerigaz.
Local costs include the costs of establishing and maintaining the PIU, the costs of personnel and
equipment which will be involved in installation of new equipment, and the costs of facilities to
house items such as gas analysis and meter proving equipment. Summary project costs are shown
in Table 3.1. The cost estimate is shown in more detail in Annex 3.1.



- 18 -
Table 3.1
Estimated Project Cost
---(in Million USS)---
Foreign    Component
Local      Foreign       Total    as % of       % of
Total     Total
Metering                    1.5          9.6         11.0       87             45
Cathodic Protection         1.1          3.8         4.8        79             20
Analytical Equipment        0.4          1.0         1.4        73              6
Corporatization Support
- PEMS, Training           0.5          1.1          1.6        69             7
- Office Equipment                      0.3          0.3        83
- Other                    0.1          0.4          0.5        80             2
Base Cost                   3.5         16.1        19.6        82             80
Physical Contingency        0.5          2.4         2.9        83             12
Price Contingency           0.4          1.7         2.1        81             9
Total Project Cost          4.4         20.2        24.6        82            100
Note: Figures may not add due to rounding.
E.     Project Financing Arrangements
3.15   An IDA Credit would be extended to the Government of Azerbaijan in the amount of SDR
14.1 million (US$20.2 million equivalent), and would cover the foreign currency portion of the
project. Azerigaz would finance US$4.4 million equivalent from internal cash generation to cover
local costs. The IDA Credit would be on standard IDA terms of 35 years repayment, including 10
years grace, a service charge of 0.75 percent and a commitment fee not to exceed 0.5 percent. The
Government would on-lend the full IDA Credit in dollar equivalents to Azerigaz at an interest rate
equal to the IBRD variable rate on currency pool loans, adjusted every six months.'8 Repayment
terms would be over 20 years, including 5 years grace. The proposed financing plan for the project
is summarized in Table 3.2.
3.16 Funds from the IDA Credit would be available to finance equipment, materials and technical
assistance for Azerigaz. A Credit Agreement has been concluded between IDA and the Government
of Azerbaijan. A Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) will be concluded between the Governrnent
of Azerbaijan and Azerigaz. The execution of a SLA satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of
18     The proposed onlending rate reflects a number of considerations, including the role of Azerigaz as a public
utility, and the financial constraints that it must operate under until residential gas prices can be adjusted to levels
that more fully reflect full operating costs.



- 19-
Credit effectiveness. A Project Agreement between IDA and Azerigaz will facilitate the achievement
of project objectives and utilization of loan proceeds as intended. The Ministry of Finance will
represent the Government of Azerbaijan. A chart of lending arrangements, legal agreements, and
flow of funds is shown in Annex 3.2.
Table 3.2 - Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Financing Source       Local   Foreign      Total     % of Total
I.D.A.                            20.2      20.2          82
Azerigaz                 4.4                 4.4          18
Total                    4.4      20.2      24.6         100
F.    Environmental Aspects
3.17  In accordance with Annex E of OD 4.01, the proposed project has been assigned Category
B classification. The project involves only rehabilitation and maintenance, and has no significant
or irreversible environmental impacts. The natural gas savings generated by the introduction of gas
meters would provide both direct and indirect environmental benefits. Direct benefits would include
reduction in acid and greenhouse gas emissions (NOX and C02) associated with lower consumption
of natural gas. In addition, reduction in natural gas leakages represents a significant benefit, since
methane emissions produce a greenhouse effect that is 20 to 50 times greater than carbon dioxide
for equivalent emissions. Indirect benefits would stem from the greater availability of natural gas
and LPG and their potential substitution for more polluting fuels such as wood and petroleum
products.
3.18  An environmental mitigation plan has been prepared to address potentially adverse project
impacts, and is described in Annex 3.3. Only two components of the system rehabilitation may have
a measurable impact on the physical environment: (a) replacement of degraded pipe; and (b)
cathodic protection. The impacts of these components would depend on the specific characteristics
of the locations involved which would only be determined during implementation. Mitigation
measures to be taken are described in the environmental mitigation plan, and include the
appointment of an environmental coordinator to work with the PIU and ensure that provisions in the
plan are carried out. During negotiations, Azerigaz agreed to adhere to the proposed mitigation plan
in implementing the project. Necessary preparation and training will be provided by the
Procurement Engineering Management and Supervision (PEMS) consultant during the project
implementation phase.



- 20 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Implementation Arrangements
4.1    The existing project preparation unit within Azerigaz, which has worked closely with the
consultants and the World Bank preparation missions in defining and analyzing proposed
investments, will form the core of the PIU, supplemented by additional staff possessing relevant
qualifications. A project director would lead the team and will be supported by a technical manager,
a procurement specialist, finance manager and a logistics/administrative officer. An environmental
coordinator will also be appointed to ensure that the environmental mitigation plan is implemented.
Considering the substantial technical qualifications and experience of Azerigaz senior staff and their
understanding of the problems faced by the company, the suggested procedure will be to assign
existing senior staff to the key positions. Azerigaz has agreed, prior to Credit effectiveness, to
formally establish a PIU, and to appoint managerial, operational and support staff sufficient to
initiate project implementation.
4.2    Considering Azerigaz's lack of experience with international and Bank procedures,
especially with regard to financing and procurement, it is proposed that consultant support services
be provided for project implementation. The selected consultants would be conversant with World
Bank practices and would have the backing or support capabilities to carry out their work effectively.
The consultants will establish a nucleus project team in Azerigaz (resident in Baku). Specialists will
be provided as needed under the implementation schedule, traveling to Baku on a regular and on an
as required basis. In discussions with Azerigaz, terms of reference has been prepared (Annex 4. 1).
The Letter of Invitation for the PEMS consultants will be issued under a Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) advance. The PEMS consultants will be asked to bid based on a two-phase assignment, with
the first phase to cover finalization of technical specifications and bidding documents for initial
metering and leak detection packages. The second phase, which will commence following Credit
effectiveness, will cover the balance of the implementation period.
4.3    The PEMS consultants will be expected to provide the following consultant skill mix:
(a)   A Project Managerwill be provided to serve as a counterpart to the manager of the PIU and
to manage and co-ordinate the activities of other members of the PEMS consulting team.
This individual would be a specialist with expertise in design and management of gas
network projects. He/she would assist the PIU to finalize the technical specifications, and
would set up a project management system and train Azerigaz in its use.
(b)   A Metering Specialist would be required in the early stages of the project to finalize metering
designs, specifications and installation programs. Further assistance from this individual
may be required on a short-term basis when additional metering packages are being prepared.
(c)   A Procurement Specialist will advise and assist with the procurement process including the
preparation of tender documents, bid evaluations and contracts with suppliers of equipment
and services in accordance with Bank guidelines. The procurement specialist will also
recommend institutional changes to strengthen the capability to procure goods and services
from local and international sources.



- 21 -
(d) A Financial Analvst will assist the financial manager in establishing project accounting
systems and procedures, in engaging auditors, and in preparing financial statements that
conform to international standards and IDA requirements.
(e)   A specialized sub-consultant for Cathodic Protection will be hired to carry out the initial
detailed designs and implementation, train Azerigaz staff, set up a program for the survey
of the entire pipeline system and monitor the implementation of this component. The
consultant would also establish procedures for the definition and implementation of the
emergency pipe replacement program.
(f)    A Gas Sales and Purchase Contract Specialist will be provided on a short-term basis to assist
Azerigaz in: (a) supplementing the existing contracts with industrial and commercial
customers to provide for security, maintenance and operation of the new meter sets to be
installed at the customer sites; and (b) concluding a gas supply contract with SOCAR in line
with the industry norms providing particularly for operation of the new gas measurement
center to be installed in Karadag.
B.    Schedule
4.4    The project will be implemented over four years, starting in the third quarter of 1996 through
the fourth quarter of 2000. All components will be launched in the first two years of the project.
The proposed implementation schedule is shown in Annex 4.2. As noted above, it is expected that
the PEMS consultant contract would be signed prior to Credit effectiveness (with the second phase
subject to satisfactory performance during the PPF phase).  It is anticipated that the PEMS
consultants will be in place by the end of the 3rd quarter of 1996.
4.5    During 1996, Azerigaz will, with the assistance of the PEMS consultants, complete a
detailed customer survey for the proposed metering of large consumers and for the meter upgrading
at the city gate stations. This survey will confirm the need for metering at each premises, confirm
whether new or upgraded metering is required, determine the detailed design requirements, and
determine installation details for each consumer.
4.6    The Procurement process for the first package of the metering component, which will
include major city gate stations, will begin in the 4th quarter of 1996, and the first deliveries of
equipment will begin in approximately the 4th quarter of 1997. Procurement of industrial and
commercial meters will begin in the 3rd quarter of 1997, with subsequent packages to follow as
detailed specifications of individual customer requirements are finalized. Procurement of leak
detection equipment will also be initiated in the 4th quarter of 1996, with the first deliveries expected
in the 2nd quarter of 1997. Implementation of the cathodic protection component will begin in early
1997, with the consultants completing the initial surveys, implementation and training by the 3rd
quarter of 1997. Procurement of the gas quality equipment will be started in early 1998 following
design and specification studies. Including installation and commissioning, this component will be
completed by mid-1999.



- 22 -
C.   Procurement Arrangements
4.7    Table 4.1 summarizes the procurement approaches to be used for the project. All Bank
financed goods and equipment will be procured in accordance with the "Guidelines: Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," published in January 1995 and revised in January 1996.
Consultant services will be procured in accordance with the "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", August 1981. The equipment
and services to be financed by IDA mostly consist of standard, conventional items available from
numerous suppliers worldwide. The project consists of 19 packages of which 10 packages with a
total estimated cost of US$18.2 million would be procured under International Competitive Bidding
(ICB). It is proposed that 5 contracts for specialized goods such as test equipment and network
modeling, with an aggregate value of about US$2.3 million, would be procured under limited
international bidding (LIB) using IDA's standard bidding documents for goods. The remaining four
packages with total estimated value of about US$4.1 million for items such as PEMS, training and
office equipment will be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines for selection of consultants
and through International Shopping (IS).
4.8    The first general procurement notice has been published in the UN Development Business
in the summer of 1996, and thereafter notices will be published annually about the same time
throughout the implementation period for all outstanding procurement. For the ICB packages,
specific procurement notices will be published both in local papers and UN Development Business.
4.9   Equipment installation will be performed primarily by the Construction Department of
Azerigaz (Azerigaz Glastroi) and by local contractors, hired using local procurement rules, and
financed by Azerigaz. Quotations will be obtained from local contractors and the contract will be
awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder. Azerigaz has recently established a transaction committee
to ensure proper implementation of these procedures as well as review of all the bids for
management approval. Construction works associated with equipment installation will be supervised
jointly by local construction management teams and equipment supplier representatives, as well as
by the PEMS consultant.
4.10  Consultants to provide implementation assistance and other technical assistance will be
selected in accordance with the "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
The World Bank as Executing Agency," August 1981. Azerigaz will select and manage the
Consultants and the selection procedure will be on a competitive basis using a short list of firms
proposed by Azerigaz and agreed by IDA. The Consultants would be employed under the World
Bank's "Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services for Complex Time-Based Assignments
- June 1995."



- 23 -
Table 4.1 - Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)'
Project Element                           Procurement             Total Costs
Method
ICB          Other2
1. Goods:
1.1 Metering
1.1. I City Gate Meters                                   2.9                         2.9
(2.4)                       (2.4)
1.1.2 Industrial Meters                                  10.2                        10.2
(9.0)                       (9.0)
1.1.3 Proving and Installation Equipment                               0.8            0.8
(0.6)          (0.6)
1.2 Cathodic Protection                                          5.1                         5.1
(3.9)                       (3.9)
1.3 Analytical Equipment                                                      1.5            1.5
(1.2)          (1.2)
1.4 Office Equipment                                                          0.2            0.2
(0.2)          (0.2)
2. Consultant Services:
2.1 Implementation Assistance (PEMS)                                          2.7            2.7
(1.8)          (1.8)
2.2 Training                                                                  0.3            0.3
(0.3)          (0.3)
2.3 Corporatization Support                                                   0.5            0. 5
(0.4)          (0.4)
3. Miscellaneous:                                                               0.4            0.4
3.1 Refinancing PPF                                                          (0.4)          (0.4)
Total                                                             18.2          6.4           24.6
IDA Financed                                                     (15.4)        (4.8)         (20.2)
Notes: Figures in ( ) are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit. Discrepancies may occur due to rounding.
I.  Costs include contingencies.
2.  Office equipment would be procured by Intemational Shopping (IS). Goods of a specialized nature (analytical equipment and meter testing
equipment) would be procured by Limited Intemational Bidding (LIB). Consulting services would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (August 1981)
4.11    Qualified suppliers from  Azerbaijan will be encouraged to bid on procurement packages.
The bidding documents for ICB procurement will include the domestic preference, as per the Bank's
Guidelines, for goods manufactured locally, of 15 percent of the CIF price or the value of import
duties and charges, whichever is less. Considering the separable nature of most of the project
components, procurement arrangements will be structured so as to be sufficiently flexible to
accommodate adjustments in the work program during project implementation.



- 24 -
4.12  Azerigaz staff, assisted by the PEMS consultants, will be responsible for preparing and
maintaining detailed procurement plans. These plans will contain a list of bidding documents to be
issued and a schedule for each proposed contract, giving the date when the draft will be ready for
Bank review, when bid documents would be released, the bid opening date, the date the bid
evaluation report will be given to IDA for its review, the contract signing date, and the dates when
equipment will be delivered or services rendered. Equipment procurement will be structured in a
phased manner to minimize the financial risks for the borrower. This is feasible because of the
divisible nature of the project. Periodic reviews of the financial viability of the project components
and of Azerigaz will be undertaken in close concert with procurement reviews, to ensure that the
individual project subcomponents remain feasible, and the procurement plan will be adjusted
accordingly. Annex 4.3 shows the procurement plan for the project.
4.13  All contracts for goods procured under ICB, LIB and IS will be subject to IDA's prior review
procedure. The terms of reference for all consulting assignments will be subject to prior review by
IDA. All consulting contracts in excess of US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals will
be subject to IDA's prior review procedure. This relatively extensive review of the procurement
packages is considered necessary because of the inexperience of Azerigaz. In addition to IDA's
review procedure, a procurement specialist, contracted under the implementation assistance
component of the Project, would assist Azerigaz to implement the procurement according to IDA's
Guidelines.
D.   Disbursement
4.14  The profile of yearly expenditures for the IDA Credit is given in Table 4.2. The distribution
over the implementation period (spread over five Bank fiscal years) is uneven, with 11 percent to
be disbursed in fiscal year 1997, 29 percent in 1998, 33 percent in 1999, 21 percent in 2000 and 6
percent in 2001. This distribution is consistent with the borrowers' ability to implement the project
and is based on the preparation work done on the terms of reference for implementation assistance
and technical specifications. In the first year, the disbursements will be for consultants to assist in
project implementation and launching the first procurement package for metering (CGS). In the
second, third and fourth years, the engineered materials, equipment and remaining TA would be
disbursed.
4.15  Disbursements will be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for goods and
consultants' services up to US$50,000 equivalent for which detailed documents evidencing
expenditures will be reviewed and kept by Azerigaz and made available for the required audit as well
as to Bank supervision missions. Disbursements against contracts for goods and consultants' services
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent will be made against normal documentation.



- 25 -
Table 4.2 - Disbursement Schedule of the IDA Credit
(US$ million equivalent)
| FY97    FY98   FY99   FY00    FY01   Total
Annual                2.3      5.8      6.6      4.2     1.3    20.2
Percent of Total      11.4    28.7    32.6    20.8       6.4   100.0
Cumulative Total      2.3      8.1     14.7    18.9    20.2 _
4.16  To facilitate payments of small and medium size amounts in foreign currency and all
payments in local currency, the Borrower will open a separate Special Account (SA) in a commercial
bank acceptable to IDA. The maximum authorized allocation of the SA will be US$200,000. The
initial amount to be deposited at the beginning of disbursement will be US$100,000. This amount
will be increased to the maximum authorized allocation once the level of disbursement under the
Credit reaches US$1,000,000 equivalent. Each disbursement from this account will require
documentation from the Project Manager at Azerigaz to ensure that it is being used exclusively for
eligible expenditures. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months,
and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
4.17 Table 4.3 itemizes the withdrawal of the proceeds of the IDA Credit.
Table 4.3: Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Category                     Amount    % of Expenditures to be
(US$ million)  Financed
Goods                             17.2   100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost), and 85% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultant Services                1.5   100%
Project Preparation Advance        0.4   100%
Unallocated                        1.1
Total                             20.2



- 26 -
E.    Supervision
4.18  Owing to the nature of the project, the relative lack of experience on Bank projects in
Azerbaijan and Azerigaz's lack of experience with Bank procedures, reporting arrangements are
particularly important. Frequent adjustment of the work program is expected, in order to compensate
for changing conditions during project implementation. To facilitate increased focus on the project
objectives during implementation, a set of key development and performance monitoring indicators
have been developed that will be specifically addressed in supervision missions and periodic reports
by the borrower (Annex 4.4).
4.19  A project launch mission will take place early on to accelerate Credit effectiveness and
project implementation. It is proposed that Azerigaz prepare monthly progress reports during the
first year of implementation, and bi-monthly progress reports thereafter. These reports will be
furnished to IDA and will present the physical progress of the project, procurement status, costs
incurred and anticipated, disbursements made, administrative aspects and institutional performance.
A mid-term review will take place towards the end of the second year and Azerigaz will be required
to prepare a report describing the physical progress and an assessment of how well the project meets
the overall project objectives and benefits.
4.20  Because of the borrower's inexperience and the fact that the project is broken into a number
of components, project supervision will require more resources than normal Bank projects. Project
supervision will entail two supervision missions annually. Requirements in terms of staff weeks are
expected to be high (24 weeks) in the first year, but should decline to 20 staff weeks in the second
year, and to 18 in the third and fourth years of the project. Annex 4.5 details the proposed
supervision program.
4.21 During the implementation phase of the project, Azerigaz will be asked to agree to furnish
the following financial reports to IDA: (a) financial statements, within three and one-half months
of the end of each fiscal year, beginning with fiscal year 1996; (b) audited project accounts,
beginning with the account for year 1996, within six months of the end of each year; and (c) audited
financial statements within six months of the end of each year, beginning with
fiscal year 1996. Azerigaz will also prepare and furnish to IDA, within six months of
project completion, a completion report including a reassessment of proiect costs and benefits.
F.    Insurance
4.22  Insurance on equipment procured under the project will be provided during shipment under
terms of the purchase contract. Azerigaz is obliged to maintain insurance on all of its assets, and
once installed, the new equipment will be covered in the same fashion.



- 27 -
V. FINANCIAL ISSUES
A.    Financial Rates of Return
5.1   Projected financial returns on the project are fully satisfactory. The overall financial internal
rate of return (FIRR), at currently prevailing prices for inputs and outputs, is 51.6 percent after tax.
Returns on the main subcomponents are: 46.3 percent for the asset preservation components of the
project (cathodic protection, leak detection equipment, and analytical equipment and models); 33.6
percent for new meters for large industrial and commercial customers; 70.9 percent for replacement
meters; and 108.9 percent for the upgrading of instrumentation at the city gate stations.
5.2    Details of the financial rate of return analysis are contained in Annex 5.1. The level and
timing of capital costs is based on the cost estimate and implementation schedule outlined in
Sections 3 and 4. Financial benefits associated with the asset preservation components of the project
derive mainly from the gradual extension in the life of the pipe network and the consequent
reduction in annual pipe replacement costs. Average annual requirements for pipe replacement were
assumed to be 5 percent without the project (20 year life). With the implementation of cathodic
protection, they are assumed to decline from 5 percent to 3 percent per annum over the first 5 years
and to 2.5 percent per annum by the end of 15 years.19 Financial benefits also accrue through
reduced gas leakages within the area where the project is being implemented, as a result of both
cathodic protection and acquisition of leak detection equipment, and from savings in electricity
consumption as compared with the existing, poorly isolated cathodic protection system.
5.3    Positive financial returs from the installation of new and replacement meters at large
industrial and commercial customers accrue primarily from reductions in non-technical losses.
Approximately 10 percent of existing meters are not functioning at all, and the remainder are judged
to be under-reading by between 8 and 15 percent. Customers which currently have no meters are
billed based on estimated consumption "norms" associated with the types of equipment installed.
Together, these factors lead to system-wide non-technical losses of approximately 10 percent per
year. These losses are expected to be virtually eliminated where new/replacement meters are
installed. Conservatively, the loss reduction associated with replacement meters has been taken at
8 percent of sales, while the loss reduction associated with new meters has been assumed at 10
percent of sales. This latter figure almost certainly understates the likely degree of loss reduction,
since unmetered industrial customers are likely to account for higher than "average" losses -
particularly since the high norms for residential consumption may, in many cases, exceed actual
consumption (which would imply greater use in industry than estimated by Azerigaz). The
"recaptured" sales have been valued at the current industrial/commercial selling price of 240,000
manats/MCM (US$53.33/MCM). These gains will be offset, however, to the extent that customers
are willing or able to respond to higher gas bills by using gas more efficiently. The same
conservation impacts were assumed in both the financial and economic analyses: that is, 15 percent
for unmetered industrial customers and 3 percent for customers receiving replacement meters.
Azerigaz will lose the revenue which would have been associated with the sale of this gas (valued
as above), and, since their distribution costs are largely fixed, will save only the cost of purchasing
19    With cathodic protection, pipe life should increase to between 40 and 60 years. However, because of the
relatively poor state of existing pipes, full realization of these benefits is assumed to be deferred.



- 28 -
the gas from the supplier. This cost has been assumed, at the margin, to be equivalent to imports
from Turkmenistan and valued at the current price of approximately US$43.00/MCM.20
5.4    Financial returns from the upgrading of the city gate metering stations were valued on the
samne basis. A more conservative estimate of the reduction in non-technical losses was used, since
the meters are more distant from the end-users and it will therefore be more difficult to track down
instances of under-billing. It was therefore assumed that improved city-gate metering will , where
installed, lead to a reduction in non-technical losses from 10 percent to 8 percent. As with customer
metering, some of this gain will be offset by customer efforts to use gas more efficiently. Customers
were assumed to respond to higher gas bills by reducing their consumption by 1.5 percent. The
recapture of non-technical losses was valued at the system weighted average selling price of
$23.16/MCM. Reductions in sales due to induced efficiency gains were valued at the difference
between the average selling price and the marginal cost of imports.
B.    Financial Risks and Sensitivities
5.5    The primary risks which might affect the financial rates of return on the project relate to: (a)
failure to actually capture the full potential benefits; (b) failure by Azerigaz to implement the project
in a timely manner; and (c) unexpectedly high capital costs of the procured equipment. These risks,
and their potential impacts on the project's rate of return, are discussed below.
5.6    A variety of technical and institutional factors may jeopardize the ability to capture potential
financial benefits of the project. As regards the asset preservation components, the existing pipeline
may be in worse condition than expected and hence expected savings in replacement costs may not
materialize as early as expected. As regards metering, the benefits associated with projected
reductions in unbilled consumption are based on system average figures for non-technical losses;
however, actual reductions will depend on the specific loss characteristics of customers who receive
the new meters, which may be less than expected. In the case of city-gate instrumentation,
reductions in losses would be jeopardized if Azerigaz fails to follow up on and eliminate residual
unbilled consumption. In addition, the estimates of financial return assume that, at the margin, the
value of gas saved is equivalent to the price of imports from Turkmenistan. If the decision not to
import gas in 1995/96 is extended indefinitely, and if there are no further increases in the price paid
to SOCAR, then the value of gas saved will, at the margin, be equal to the current price of domestic
gas - that is, US$10.80/MCM rather US$43.00. However, an indefinite ban on imports is neither
expected nor recommended.
5.7    The impacts of lowered benefits on the project FIRR's have been quantified under a
relatively pessimistic set of assumptions. Delays in realizing the benefits of investments in asset
preservation do not seriously alter the financial viability of this component. Even if no reductions
in pipe replacement were realized until 5 years after the project was completed, the FIRR would
remain high at 27.5 percent. In terms of metering, however, the viability of new industrial meters
20     While the price of domestic gas supply is currently less than that of imported gas, imports will be needed
for some years to balance supply and demand. In addition, while new offshore petroleum developments should
increase the longer-term supply of domestic gas, financial prices for this gas are expected to rise to at least at fuel-
oil parity (currently $45/MCM equivalent) in order to ensure economic allocation and efficient use of fuel
resources.



- 29 -
could be jeopardized if benefits fail to meet expectations. A 50 percent drop in the recapture of
unbilled consumption would reduce the FIRR to 10.3 percent on new meters21. For replacement
meters and instrumentation of the city gate stations, however, a 50 percent drop in recapture would
reduce the FIRR's to a still robust 35.6 percent and 73.9 percent respectively. In the event that the
ban on irnports of gas is maintained, and that the price of domestic gas stays at $10.80/MCM, returns
decline on all components of the project. Returns would be negative on new meters, and would
decline to 60.1 percent on replacement meters and to 64.1 percent on city gate instrumentation.
Returns on asset preservation components would fall marginally to 44.7 percent, and the overall rate
of return on the project would drop to 39.6 percent. However, the lower level of gas supplies
resulting from the absence of imports would allow some scaling back of project investments.
5.8    As regards the risks associated with the capabilities of the implementing agency and
associated potential delays in project implementation, a 2-year delay in the realization of benefits
as a result of delays in equipment installation would reduce the FIRR on the project from 51.6
percent to 33.3 percent. Finally, as regards capital cost related risks, a 35 percent increase in the
estimated capital costs (an extreme scenario which would include VAT being applied on all
components and full absorption of the physical contingencies) reduces the expected FIRR to 42.0
percent.
5.9    While the project is financially robust even under a pessimistic set of assumptions, the
sensitivity analysis highlights the importance of three main factors: (a) careful planning of the
metering program, giving priority to installing meters where there are strong reasons to believe that
current billings under-represent actual consumption; (b) institutional strengthening of Azerigaz to
maximize recapture of unbilledgas use; and (c) planning and support for the overall implementation
program to ensure that the availability and capacity of local resources (both physical and financial)
are sufficient to ensure that equipment is installed in a timely manner. These factors are addressed
in the project design through early work on the preparation of tender documents for the PEMS
consultant to ensure that assistance is in place at the earliest stages of project implementation, and
through a policy agenda which focuses on the corporatization and financial viability of Azerigaz.
C.    Pro-Forma Financial Projections
5.10  Price reform is an integral factor inthe success of the project. If the status quo is naintained
with regard to pricing policies, the future financial position of Azerigaz will be precarious, and the
company will be unable to finance either the local costs of the project or the initial debt service from
internally generated funds. Pro-forma financial projections indicate that, with or without the
proposed project, Azerigaz will have a funding shortfall of approximately US$70 million over each
of the-next 3 years - of which approximately $40 million per year is attributable to priority and/or
committed investments in network rehabilitation. A substantial portion of these investments are for
pipe replacement (approximately $35.5 million per year is estimated as necessary based on an
average pipe life of 20 years). Other planned investments include purchase and installation of
residential meters, and purchase of replacement compressors for the gas storage facility at Kalmas.
21    This assumes no corresponding decline in the conservation impacts of new meters. If conservation impacts
also fill by 50 percent (to 7.5 percent), the FIRR would be 20.0 percent.



-30-
Even if these investments are deferred, the enterprise will still be in an annual cash deficit position
of approximately US$30 million.
5.11  In this context, price increases are regarded as essential to preserve the company's financial
viability. The average margin of $4.00/MCM equivalent agreed as a condition of Board presentation
(pam 2.15) would reduce the cash deficit by approximately US$34 million per year over the next
four years (1996-1999 average), which would provide full coverage of operating costs and of local
costs of the project, and provide partial financing (on average approxinately $8 million per year out
of the proposed $40 million) for non-project related capital investments. Table 5.1 shows the
projections of cash flow and selected performance ratios assuming that margins are increased to
$4.00/MCM equivalent in 1996 and held at that level in real terms thereafter. A more complete set
of pro forma financial statements is provided in Annex 5.2.
5.12 The remaining financing gap, however, will have to be met by additional price increases for
residential and communal customers, improved operating efficiency and/or further deferral of other
investments in the network. Azerigaz will prepare, by the first of November for each year, financial
projections and an action plan acceptable to IDA which demonstrates how they propose to meet their
finacial obligations under the project, including coverage of operating costs, contributions to
project-related expenditures, debt service coverage, financing of other capital expenditures, and
adequate return on investment. Possible measures in the action plan include but are not limited to
price increases, rescheduling of capital investment, and improvements in operating efficiency. In
addition, to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet the financial requirements of the
proposed project, Azerigaz will submit its annual capital investment program to IDA for prior
review and approval.
5.13 Over the longer term, Azerigaz is expected to operate on a commercially viable basis, and
earn a reasonable rate of return for its owners. To this end, Azerigaz and the Government have
agreed to meet the following financial conditions:
-      to implement a time-bound Action Plan to address arrears in the gas distribution sector.
The plan specifies dates, after which Azerigaz will be required to refuse further supply to
customers in the absence of prepayment or Letter of Credit, and includes provision that if the
Government exempts certain agencies from prepayment, the Government will guarantee
timely payment on their behalf;
by June 30, 1997, to improve monthly collection rates from customers to equal seventy-five
(75) percent of the invoice value of gas delivered, and by December 31, 1997 to equal ninety
(90) percent of the value of gas delivered, and to maintain collection rates at or above that
level thereafter;
not to incur additional debt unless projections indicate that a debt-service coverage ratio of
at least 1.5 can be maintained; and
following completion of the project (i.e. from 2001 onwards), to earn an annual return
equivalent to 10 percent of net revalued fixed assets.



- 31 -
Table 5.1
Summary of Cash Flow Projections
(million USS)
---W:41 M  9^   1999      2000      2001
Total Sales (million m3)             6,071     5,996     5,924     5,941     5,958     5,975
Total Purchases (million m3)         7,124     7,017     6,915     6,917     6,937     6,957
SOCAR                              4,400     3,700     3,500     3,200     3,200     3,520
Imports                            2,724     3,317     3,415     3,717     3,737     3,437
Sources of Funds: (S million)
Net Profit from Operations            7.0       5.4       3.6       2.2       0.3      (2.7)
Depreciation                          1.5       3.3       5.2       6.9       8.7      11.A
Borrowing (including Interest)        0.1       4.4       8.0       7.0       4.1       1.5
Total Sources                          8.6      13.1      16.8      16.1      13.1      10.2
Application of Funds: (S million)
Capital Expenditure - Project         0.2       5.3       9.1       6.9       3.2
Capital Expenditure - Other         43.7      43.8      40.9      41.0      35.5      32.7
Debt Service                                   0.2       0.6        1.2      1.5       2.8
Total Applications                    43.9      49.3      50.6      49.1      40.2      35.5
Net Cash Surplus/(Shortfall)         (35.3)    (36.2)    (33.8)    (33.0)    (27.1)    (25.3)
Net Surplus/(Shortfall) excluding      8.4       7.6       7.1       8.0       8.4       7.4
"Other" Capital Expenditures
Debt Service Coverage                           49.2      13.6       7.6       6.0       3.0
Average Tariff per MCM (current S)    $31.76    $36.05    S37.71    $39.74    $39.85    $38.42
D.    Sensitivity of Pro Forma Projections
5.14 Because the above cash flow projections are based on a fixed minimum margin per unit of
gas delivered, operating revenues are directly related to volumes sold. In the event that gas imports
are not resumed, Azerigaz will be obliged to meet their fixed operating costs, as well as the costs
associated with the project, out of a potentially smaller revenue base. An alternative scenario was
therefore examined based on the following assunption set: (a) gas imports are not resumed; (b) gas
supply from domestic fields declines in line with the projections shown in Table 2.1; (c) supply
shortfalls are spread over all customer classes in proportion to their demand; (d) prices to consumers
would be held constant in real terms, apart from the doubling of residential prices agreed prior to



- 32 -
Credit negotiations; and (e) a minimum $4.00/MCM (1996 price levels) average margin would be
maintained.
Table 5.2
Summary of Cash Flow Projections - No Imports Scenario
(million USS)
1996     1997      1998      1999      2000      2001
Total Sales (million m3)             3,750     3,162     2,999     2,758     2,824     3,171
Total Purchases (million m3)         4,400     3,700     3,500     3,200     3,200     3,520
Unmet Demand (million m3)            2,321     2,834     2,925     3,183     3,134     2,804
Sources of Funds: (S million)
Net Profit from Operations           18.5      12.8       9.5       8.6       6.6       5.1
Depreciation                          1.5       3.3       5.2       6.9       8.7      11.4
Borrowing (including interest)        0.1       4.4       8.0       7.0       4.1       1.5
Total Sources                         20.1      20.5      22.7      22.5      19.4      18.0
Application of Funds: (S million)
Capital Expenditure - Project         0.2       5.3       9.1       6.9       3.2
Capital Expenditure - Other          43.7      43.8      40.9      41.0     35.5      32.7
Debt Service                                    0.2       0.6       1.2       1.5       2.8
Total Applications                    43.9      49.3      50.6      49.1      40.2      35.5
Net Cash Surplus/(Shortfall)         (23.8)    (28.8)    (27.9)    (26.6)    (20.8)    (17.5)
Net Surplus/(Shortfall) excluding     19.9      15.0      13.0      14.4      14.7      15.2
"Other" Capital Expenditures
Debt Service Coverage                           90.9      22.8      13.2      10.2       5.8
Average Tariff per MCM (current S)    $23.85    $24.29    S24.52    $25.67    $26.05    $26.06
5.15   The resultant pro forma financial projections are summarized in Table 5.2, and detailed in
Annex 5.3. Table 5.2 demonstrates that, at least in the short term, Azerigaz is in a moderately better
financial position as a result of continued curtailment of imports, provided that current purchase and
selling prices are maintained in real terms, and that the curtailment in supply is spread
proportionately across all customer classes. If, however, as a result of political or social
considerations, curtailments are focussed on industrial customers in order to maintain supply to
residential and communal customers, there would be a rapid deterioration in Azerigaz's average
margin at current prices. Furthermore, unless domestic production could be maintained at or near
current levels, the curtailment of imports would entail as much as a 50 percent drop in Azerigaz's



- 33 -
sales, and the company would be unable to cover its full operating costs eyen with a $4.00/MCM
average margin.
E.    Accounting and Auditing Arrangements
5.16 Virtually all of Azerigaz's financial and accounting activities are carried out manually.
Billings, accounts receivable, payments and fixed asset management are handled regionally.
Financial results, in terms of profits and balance sheets, are reported quarterly to head office where
they are "consolidated" (i.e. added together without adjustment) to generate corporate financial
statements. "Surplus" cash from the regions (i.e. the difference between their collections and their
expenses) is also transferred to head office. Internal financial controls are weak, in part because of
the poor information on gas flows to and within the regions, but also because of the substantial
autonomy allowed at the local level. While annual audits are carried out on both regional and central
financial records, these are conducted by the taxation department and are focussed primarily on
assessing tax liability and compliance. A corporate audit based on International Auditing Standards
([AS) would be problematic at this stage. Accounting systems are not fully in accord with
intemational accounting standards,' local accounting finns are not qualified to undertake a full audit
in accordance with international standards, and the cost of retaining an international firm to
undertake such an audit would be prohibitive at the present time given the poor state of the
company's finances, and of the economy as a whole.
5.17 Bank requirements for the maintenance and auditing of project accounts have been discussed
with senior management, who have agreed to comply with Bank standards in terms of record-
keeping and reporting. Theconmpany has agreed to appoint an independent auditor, acceptable to
IDA, to review project accounts, SA's and SOE's on an annual basis. In addition, in order to assist
Azerigaz in developing their own accounting capabilities, a substantial proportion of both the office
equipment and training budgets under the project will be directed towards the financial departments.
For the corporate accounts, it is proposed that the requirement for a full LAS audit be introduced
once the corporation has had an opportunity to upgrade and strengthen its accounting and financial
mnanagement systems. Beginning with the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, Azerigaz will be
asked to engage international auditors, under terms of engagement satisfactory to IDA, to review
corporate financial statements, and to assess internal recording and control procedures.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Benefits, Costs and Rate of Return
6.1    The proposed project consists primarily of investments which constitute a part of a longer-
term program to upgrade, rehabilitate and preserve the gas transmission and distribution network.
22    Inconsistencies with international accounting standards include the following: (i) income and expenditure
accounts are maintained on a cash, rather than an accrual basis; (ii) reserves for uncollectible accounts are
prohibited; (iii) write-off of bad debts and obsolete assets and inventories requires prior government approval; (iv)
revaluation of assets is based on general indexes dictated by the government; and (v) consolidated accounts do not
include adjustments for internal transactions.



- 34 -
Least-cost principles have been adhered to in the selection of technologies, the choices between
replacement and upgrading, and the specifications of materials quality.
6.2   The principal economic benefits of the project, which have been used to assess the Economic
Internal Rate of Return (EIRR), are as follows:
-     reduced expenditure on pipeline replacement due to rehabilitation of the cathodic
protection system;
-     increased efficiency in the use of gas due to the incentives created by the introduction
of effective metering; and
-     reduction in gas leakage due to replacement of corroded or damaged pipe.
6.3   The economic costs of the project have been assessed at the same level as the financial costs
(excluding taxes and duties), since the bulk of the costs are for imported equipment procured on
international markets. The value of the benefits for pipelines is the cost of replacement at
international parity prices. Gas savings have been valued at the economic value of gas, which has
been taken at fuel oil export parity, or US$45.00/MCM based on a fuel oil export price of US$50/ton
(f.o.b. Baku).
6.4  In the short run, given the volume of required gas imports, it could be argued that the cost
of gas imports would be a more appropriate measure of the economic value of gas. However, this
has not been used for two_easons: firstly, it is extremely difficult to arrive at a realistic economic
(as opposed to financial) value of imports of gas (especially those from Turkmenistan), due to the
distorted nature of the FSU gas market and the lack of adequate data; and, secondly, in the medium
term, as Azerbaijan's gas production stabilizes and eventually recovers, it will be possible to supply
all of the "non-substitutable" gas market from domestic gas, leaving gas to displace fuel oil at the
nargin in the power market. The project will save a total of about 215 million cubic meters of gas
per year (3% of consumption) within five years of completion through improved efficiency of use
and reduced leakage. The annual economic value of this gas is about US$10 million.
6.5   Based upon these assessments the EIRR for the project as a whole is fully satisfactory (46.9
percent). The EIRR's for the individual components are presented below (additional detail is
provided in Annex 6.1):
-     Asset Preservation: 53.4 percent, based upon extension of the lifetime of the pipeline
assets and consequent reduction in annual maintenance cost, reduced gas leakages,
and reduced electricity costs.
-     New Gas Meters: 43.0 percent, based upon an assumption of an improvement in
efficiency of use of gas of 15 percent after 3 years. This is a fairly conservative
figure, since it is often observed that metering can lead to irnprovements in efficiency
of 25 percent or more.



- 35 -
lacement Gas Meters: 21.1 percent, based upon an assumption that there will be
a 3.0 percent improvement in gas use efficiency since, firstly, current meters are
estimated to under-read consumption by about 10 percent, and secondly, about 10
percent of meters are not working. In the first case there will be a demand response
to the increase in billed gas, in the second there will be a substantial response as
metering is restored and consumption is rationalized.
UUpgrading of Metering at City Gate Stations: 74.3 percent, based upon an
assumption that there will be a 1.5 percent improvement in gas use efficiency due to
the elimination of large scale gas theft in certain areas, which in turn will lead to a
rationalization of gas use. In addition, there will be some benefit in reduced gas
leakage since accurate metering at key points in the system will allow losses through
leakage to be identified more rapidly.
6.6   The main economic risks faced by the project arise from:
-     possible over-estimation of the demand response to improvements in the metering
system;
-     possible over-estimation of the benefits from cathodic protection (due to the existing
pipeline being in poorer condition than assumed);
-     lower benefits from  gas savings due to lower international oil prices and
consequently lower economic value of natural gas saved; and
-     higher capital costs than expected.
6.7   The outcomes of key sensitivities taking account of these risks are shown in Table 6.1. It can
be seen that all of the components are robust to downside assumptions, and that the project as a
whole is robust to both lower energy prices and substantially higher capital costs.



- 36 -
Table 6.1
Economic Rates of Return - Sensitivities (percent)
Asset     New Meters  Replacement    City Gate      Total
Preservation               Meters      Instruments    Project
Base Case                      53.4        43.0          21.1         74.3        46.9
Demand response 50 percent     53.4        23.7          10.4         44.9        39.8
lower than base case
Effect of cathodic protection  30.5        43.0          21.1         74.3        34.9
delayed 5 years
Low international oil prices -  52.5       30.7          14.4         55.6        41.7
gas value $30/MCM
Capital costs 20 percent above  49.1       37.1          17.9         65.4        42.1
base case
6.8    The only exception to economic robustness is the Replacement Metering component, which
yields 10.4 percent when a 50 percent lower efficiency response is assumed. While this may be
unacceptable on a stand-alone basis, it should be noted that the upgrading of all meters may well be
necessary in order to create the appropriate climate of accurate and equitable metering that will lead
to improved gas use measurement and revenue collection. If only new meters and the most obsolete
and inaccurate existing meters were replaced, this would create two classes of customer - those with
"old" and less reliable Soviet-era meters, and those with new and more reliable foreign meters. There
would tend to be resistance among those with newer meters to paying for perceived under-reading
and cheating by "old" meter customers.
B.    Risk Analysis and Risk Mitigation Measures
6.9    There are a number of risks attached to undertaking the proposed project, both at the
macroeconomic level and at the project level. The financial and economic sensitivity analyses have
examined several of the project risks, with a view to testing the robustness of the predicted rates of
retum. While the sensitivity analyses have indicated that the project remains economically and
financially viable under a wide range of assumptions, the degree of uncertainty regarding returns can
be reduced by anticipating the risks and incorporating mitigation measures into the project design.
6.10   The key project risks can be summarized under the following headings:
*      Government policy risks, in terms of failure to enact the necessary reforns and/or
failure to take steps necessary to ensure the viability of the gas enterprises;
*      risks related to the capital and operating costs of the project;
*      risks related to the borrower's implementation capability;
*      risks regarding the timely availability of counterpart funding, to meet both local costs
of the project and debt service obligations;
*      risks that loss reduction will fall below targets; and
*      risks that energy conservation impacts will be less than predicted.



- 37 -
6.11   Macroeconomic risks include:
*     continuing arrears problems throughout the economy, which jeopardize the financial
viability of the gas company, its suppliers, and its customers;
*     further contraction/stagnation of the industrial and commercial sectors, and
consequent loss of relevance of part of the metering program;
*     failure or delay of macroeconomic stabilization programs, with consequent high
domestic inflation and deterioration in the exchange rate.
6.12 The project has been designed to minimize the potential impact of these risks in a number
of ways. Risks of Government failure to enact required reforms are being dealt with by requiring
specific actions to be taken prior to negotiations, Board presentation and Credit effectiveness, and
by having critical items (pricing, corporatization) addressed prior to Board presentation. In addition,
ongoing dialogue will be maintained with regard to the long term development of the gas sector.
At present, the gas sector is at the center of political focus due to the problems of gas supply and the
central role which the fuel plays in the economy. Hence it is likely that gas policy will receive
increased attention from the Government in future, and that with suitable dialogue between IDA and
the Government, necessary policies will be enacted.
6.13  Risks related to the costs and relevance of project components are being addressed through
a combination of detailed survey work prior to initial procurement, provision of substantial expert
assistance to the PIU, and a mid-term review at approximately the mid-point of project
disbursements. Implementation risks are being addressed through technical assistance to the PIU,
as well as through on-going country-wide seminars and training on Bank procedures. In any event,
the EIRR and FIRR of the project are robust even under fairly pessimistic scenarios relating to costs
and timing. Financial risks are being addressed through pricing conditionalities, including the
requirement for initial price increases which was met prior to Credit negotiations. In addition,
financial covenants will require that actions be taken in advance to ensure that Azerigaz is able to
meet its financial obligations under the loan. The risks attached to failure to capture expected
benefits from the project are being addressed through supporting the corporatization of Azerigaz,
and providing technical assistance in support of institutional development. Again, the project is
fairly robust under more pessimistic assumptions regarding benefits capture.
6.14 The problem of arrears is being addressed at the macroeconomic level in conjunction with
discussions with the IMF, and additional provision against these risks is incorporated in the covenant
which requires implementation of a time bound Action Plan to reduce accounts receivable to more
satisfactory levels, and a covenant which requires that they be maintained at these levels over time.
The Bank continues to reinforce the need for measures to reduce arrears in its discussions with the
Government. Nonetheless, arrears remain one of the more serious risks potentially affecting the
project.



- 38 -
VUI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.   Agreements Reached
7.1   Prior to Credit negotiations the Government implemented a two-times increase in residential
gas prices, to 12,700 manats/MCM (US$2.80 equivalent) (para 2.15).
7.2   During Credit negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
a)    The Government will maintain all gas prices at not less than their current levels in real terns
and will make quarterly upward adjustments to communal and residential gas prices as
necessary so as to ensure Azerigaz an average operating margin of at least US$4.00/MCM
equivalent (in constant 1996 dollars) based on reasonable projections of gas sales and
purchases (para 2.15).
b)    The Government will establish Azerigaz as a joint stock company, by September 30, 1996
with shares held initially by the State Property Committee, under a charter which reflects the
commercial focus of the company, and also the ultimate separability of its various activities
(para 2.2 1).
c)    The Government will implement an Action Plan to address arrears in the gas distribution
sector. The Plan specifies dates after which Azerigaz would be required to refuse further
supply to Azerenerji and other revenue-earning customers in the absence of timely payments.
(para 2.25).
d)    The Government has expressed its intention, through a policy letter to IDA, to implement
the following actions (see Annex 7.1):
to undertake timely passage of gas legislation, based in part on work to be carried out
with EU-TACIS financing (para 2.21);
to establish the LPG distribution departnent of Azerigaz as a separate company, and
to privatize it in a manner which attracts significant investment from a qualified
foreign company, while maintaining competitive conditions for LPG distribution
(para 2.22);
-     to carry out a review of the producer pricing and contract system for gas which
addresses the investment needs of gas development and also the need to attract
foreign investment to gas development projects (para 2.13).
e)    The Government will prepare, by December 31, 1996, a schedule acceptable to IDA for
further increases in residential gas prices to equate them to at least the cost of gas purchases.
This schedule will be coordinated with both the introduction of residential meters and the
development of a mechanism to protect low-income households from adverse impacts of
price increases (para 2.15).



- 39 -
f)    The Government agreed that a targeted mitigation program to protect low-income
households from adverse impacts of higher energy prices would be initiated in conjunction
with the proposed program of residential gas price increases (para 2.19).
g)    Azerigaz and the Government will develop, by December 31, 1996, a program to extend
metering to cover all residential customers, with priority assigned to the coverage of single-
family dwellings and apartments which use gas for multiple purposes (e.g., cooking, heating,
hot water). The program will include a timetable for completion, and a financing plan to
cover the cost of the meters and of their installation. (para 2.17).
h)    Azerigaz and the Government will meet the following financial conditions (para 5.13):
by June 30, 1997, to improve monthly collection rates from customers to equal
seventy-five (75) percent of the invoice value of gas delivered, and by December 31,
1997 to equal ninety (90) percent of the value of gas delivered, and to maintain
collection rates at or above that level thereafter;
not to incur additional debt unless projections indicate that a debt-service coverage
ratio of at least 1.5 can be maintained; and
following completion of the project (i.e. from 2001 onwards), to earn an annual
return equivalent to 10 percent of net revalued fixed assets.
i)    Azerigaz will prepare, by the first of November for each year, financial projections and an
action plan acceptable to IDA which demonstrates how they propose to meet their financial
obligations under the project, including coverage of operating costs, contributions to project-
related expenditures, debt service coverage, financing of other capital expenditures, and
adequate return on investment. Possible measures in the action plan include but are not
limited to price increases, rescheduling of capital investment, and improvements in operating
efficiency. Azerigaz will also submit its annual capital investment program to IDA for prior
review and approval (para 5.12).
j)    Azerigaz will meet the following requirements for financial reporting (para 4.21):
-     financial statements, within three and one-half months of the end of each fiscal year,
beginning with fiscal year 1996;
audited project accounts, beginning with the accounts for 1996, within six months
of the end of each year; and
audited financial statements within six months of the end of each year, beginning
with 1996.
k)    Azerigaz will appoint an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA,-to review project accounts,
SA's and SOE's on an annual basis (parm 5.17).



- 40 -
1)    Azerigaz, beginning with the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, will engage intemational
auditors, under terms of engagement satisfactory to IDA, to review corporate financial
statements, and to assess internal recording and control procedures (para 5.17).
7.3   The following conditions for Credit effectiveness have been stipulated:
a)    The Government will complete a subsidiary loan agreement with Azerigaz under the terms
and conditions outlined in the financing plan (para 3.16).
b)    Azerigaz will formally establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and appoint
managerial, operational and support staff sufficient to initiate project implementation (pam
4.1).



- 41 -
Annex 1.1
Page 1
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
FUEL AND ENERGY PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION
1990      1991       1992       1993       1994
Coal (million tonnes)                                              .
Production                             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Consunption                            0.2       0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0
Net Exports                          (0.2)      (0.1)       0.0        0.0        0.0
Crude Oil (million tonnes)
Production                            12.5       11.7      11.2       10.3        9.6
Consumption (refinery)                16.3      15.8       11.8       10.0        9.4
Net Exports                          (3.8)      (4.1)      (0.6)       0.3        0.2
Oil Products (million tonnes)
Production                            16.3      15.8       11.8       10.0        9.4
Consumption                            8.8       8.8        8.7        8.4        7.8
Net Exports                            7.5        7.0       3.1        1.6        1.61
Natural Gas (billion m3)                                                              l
Production                             9.9       8.6        7.8        6.8        6.4
Consumption                           17.5       17.0      14.8       12.2       11.7
Net Exports                          (7.6)      (8.4)      (7.0)      (5.4)     (5.3)
Electricity (billion kWh)
Production                            23.2      23.3       19.7       19.0       17.5
Hydro                               0.7        0.6        0.6       0.5        0.5
Nuclear                             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Consumption                           22.7      22.9       19.6       19.0       17.9
Net Exports                            0.5       0.4        0.1        0.0      (0.4)
Source: PlanEcon Inc., Energy Outlook for the Former Soviet Republics



- 42 -
Annex 1.1
Page 2
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRIMARY ENERGY CONSUMPTION
(percent)
i__________________________ _  |       1990       1991        1992       1993        1994
Coal                                     0.4%       0.2%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0% 
Refmed Oil Products                     37.3%      38.2%       4.1.0%     44.7%       43.7%
Natural Gas                             60.6%      60.2%       57.1%      53.2%       53.6%
Primary electicity                       0.2%       0.2%        0.5%        0.6%       1.2%
Other Fuel (peat, wood)                  1.5%        1.2%       1.3%        1.5%       1.6%
Total Primary Consumption              100.0%     100.0%      100.0%/..   100.0%     100.0%
Source: PlanEcon Inc., Energy Outlook for the Former Soviet Republics



AZRBAIAN GAS SYTEM REHABITAllON PROJET
Azeg  Organbaton Chart
Akerigaz tae Cmpary
President
Ste Gas
Control Department
Gasindruy |         Maor City          Conlrudion           Scientiic Research      Machinery            Other
DiMson         stbutionDivisons                               & Manning            Bulding
see folbwing      - Sumgal             LowNMedum Pressure   - kengaz Instute       Gazmashzav        - Soial Sppo
AImBayraml          Pipeline Construdion    -Azerigaz Projed   Balgazmash plant   Technial Suppor
- Mingechevir        8 Regonal Depaitmies        Institute       Ganja Machinery    Azengazbank
-Leram                                                                Rant
Annex 2.1
Page I



Azerigaz Organization Chart
(continued)
[  President
I Azerigaz I
[Gas Industry
Division
Main Pipeline      Nakhchivan Gas    LPG Control       Baku Gas        Main Pipeline    Local Distribution
Operations          Producation     Department       Production        Operations    Departments
(Azerigaztajhizat)    Department                       Department       (Azerigaznagl)
- 8 regional        - 7 regional                     L 11 district     - 10 regional   L50 regional
departments         depatments                       departments       departments      depaIti1ents
staff and services  pipeline operation               maintenance and t staff and services
- well workover       department                       construction
department        - corrosion protection
- high pressure       department
pipeline construction L construction
communications      department
state farm
Annex 2.1
Page 2



- 45 -
Annex 2.2
Page 1
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
COMPARISON OF HOUSEHOLD FUEL COSTS
Fuel       Unit    Household       Energy/     Cost per    Efficiency    Cost per    Index
Price        Unit      nmmBTU       (House-    Effective   Relative to
(manats)      (BTU)      (manats)    hold Use)    mmBTU         Gas
Natural Gas       M3            6.35      35,300         180         70%          257         1.0
Electricity      kWh              18       3,412       5,276         90%        5,862        22.8
Petrol            liter        1,100      30,950      35,541         30%      118,469       461.0
Kerosene         liter          420       32,934      12,753         30%       42,509       165.4
LPG                kg           750       42,854       1,750         70%       25,002        97.3
Fuelwood                         20       11 904       1 680         20%        8,401        32.7
Source: Mission estimates



- 46 -
Annex 2.2
Pap2
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
Comparison of Reidentfal Gas Prices - FSU
(USS/Mcm)
Moldova  Uzbekistan  Russia  Kyrgyz Rep. Kazakhstan  Ukraine    Latvia'  Lithuania' Azbajuan
US $/Mcm      61.7        2.0       21.7       87.0        67.4       48.0      142.8      121.0       1.4
Resldentlal Gas Price (FSU)
(USSMcm)
150
140
130
120
110
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
1Gas used for cooking.



- 47 -
Annex 2.3
Page 1
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
HOUSEHOLD GAS PRICE INCREASES
ASSESSMENT OF SOCIAL IMPACTS
Introduction
1.     Significant increases in residential gas prices are required in Azerbaijan if the gas company is to
achieve financial viability. Current prices to households are a small fraction of the purchase price of gas,
even at the relatively low prices charged by SOCAR. However, given the relatively low wage levels in
the country, concern has been expressed about the affordability of household gas price increases -
particularly when increases of ten times or greater are contemplated. A special review was therefore
carried out by London Economics, together with consultants working with the Bank's Poverty
Assessment, as part of the preparation of the Gas Rehabilitation Project. The consultants examined the
affordability of various levels of gas price increases for households across the range of income levels,
and considered alternative mechanisms for protecting vulnerable low-income households from adverse
impacts of an overall increase in tariffs. This Annex describes the key findings of that review and
presents preliminary options for alleviating potential impacts on low-income households.
2.     A primary source of data for the review was the household survey carried out by the Government
of Azerbaijan and the World Bank during November and December of 1995 as part of the Bank's
Poverty Assessment work'. The primary focus of the survey was to examine living standards, incomes
and expenditures across a broad sample of households. Over 2,000 households were surveyed, including
both established households in urban and rural areas and also refugee families living in either cities or
tented camps. While the survey was not primarily directed at establishing patterns of usage or
expenditure on energy, it provided useful information which could be used to draw some representative
outlines of the role of energy in household budgets and of observed willingness to pay for energy
supplies.
Characteristics of Energy Use
3.     Because the survey was carried out during the period when gas supply was being restricted to
only a limited number of regions in the country due to a government policy of banning gas imports, only
38 percent of households reported using gas for either cooking or heating - despite the fact that at one
time network gas was available to over 80 percent of the population. Figures I and 2 below show the
breakdowns of primary fuel use based on the survey responses.
4.     One of the more notable findings on fuel use is the dominance of fuelwood. Fuelwood was
reported as the primary fuel both for cooking and heating in over 40 percent of the households surveyed.
This suggests that many households have responded to the cutting off of gas supply by using wood,
despite its high price when transport costs are included.
5.     Of the 38 percent of households which reported using gas, 20 percent said that they used gas for
cooking only, 1 percent used gas for heating only, 9 percent used gas cookers and heaters, and the
remaining 8 percent reported using their gas cookers for both cooking and as a primary source of heating.
The analysis in this paper was carried out prior to the final review of survey findings by the Poverty
Assessment team. While the survey results convey an accurate picture of reported household incomes and
expenditures, the precise definitions of some of the categories may be adjusted upon further review.



- 48 -
Annex 2.3
Page 2
The prevalence of this latter group can be explained by the structure of the tariff, where the charge for a
gas cooker is a fixed amount per person per month (based on norms for cooking usage, as gas use in
households is not metered). Hence, while the cooker may not be an efficient source of heat, using it in
this manner carries no additional cost to the household.
Figure 1 Energy use for cooking, November/December 1995
45%
235%
30%4
10%
I .5%
10%
Gas  Bectryicit  Wood   Coal  Kerosene Ubnure  LPG    Othr  Don't cook
ource: Household Survey
Figure 2 Energy use for heating, November/December 1995
45%1
30%,
r~~~hr
*25%,
I20%
15%I
10%I
0%
DItrict  Gas      BeCtrlclty   WVood  coal    Kerosene    Other
heat
Source: Household Survey
6.     Table I shows the distribution of household gas use by decile of the population, where decile I is
the poorest in terms of total household expenditure and decile 10 the wealthiest. Gas is most widely used
by the poorest 20 percent and the richest 10 percent of the population. The distributional pattern of gas
use is in large part due to the shortage of gas and the restriction of supplies to only half the country,
including Baku, during the survey period. 94 percent of households in Baku use gas against the national
average of 38 percent; in addition, the poorest and richest households are concentrated in Baku.



- 49 -
Annex 2.3
Page 3
Table 1 Household Gas Use by Expenditure Decile
Decile      Do not use     Cook only      Heat Only      Cook and       Cook and
gas                    .                    heat      heat with gas
-*--- '                                                    '   cooker
I---- -- 53.7%            26.9%           0.7%           8.3%     ',   10.5%
2           55.0%          20.3%          1.9%           11.2%          11.6%
3           63.6%          18.1%          0.9%           10.4%          7.0%
--- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -r- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -r - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -r - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -r - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -r - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
4           62.5%          17.8%          0.9%           10.6%          8.1%
5           63.0%          19.2%          1.5%           12.8%          3.5%
6           66.5%          18.4%          0.0%           9.3%           5.8%
_______________ _ -----  ---------- _ __------------------- ------------------ ------------------ ------------------
7           73.2%          9.0%           0.9%           8.8%           8.1%
8           65.2%          19.5%          0.5%           4.4%          10.5%
9           60.5%          19.5%           1.7%          9.1%           9.3%
10          49.3%          30.7%           0.5%          9.7%           9.9%
Average        61.2%          19.9%           0.9%          9.5%           8.4%
Note:  Decile I represents the poorest 10% of the population.
Source: Household Survey, November/December 1995
Current Energy Tariffs
7.     Gas tariffs for household consumers are very low. While they have risen significantly in real
terms during 1995 - see Table 2 - increases are less than the increases in the prices of other fuels.
Current tariffs are M6350 per MCM, approximately $1.40 per MCM. Despite the increase, gas tariffs for
household consumers are far below industrial and commercial tariffs. Current tariffs for the latter
category are M240,000 per MCM, approximately $53 per MCM. Gas tariffs are uniform for each
consumer category across Azerbaijan.
8.     Household gas consumers are not metered in Azerbaijan. Bills are based on consumption norms
for appliances and household size. While these norms overestimate individual appliance consumption,
they underestimate actual household consumption due to inefficient use, wastage and non-technical
losses. The recent introduction of meters to about 700 households in Baku has shown significant
variation, both positive and negative, in actual gas consumption around that based on norms.
9.     In principle, gas bills are issued monthly, and gas inspectors visit households once a month to
verify appliance use, household size, and to service appliances and connections. In practice, bills are
issued quarterly in some districts, and many households are inspected only once a year. Bills are payable
within a month. Failure to pay on time leads to a 0.1 percent penalty in the first instance, and is followed
by disconnection if the bill remains unsettled for three months. In practice, few households pay on time,
and the sanctions available are never applied. Indeed, officials at Bakgaz, the distribution company
serving Baku, believe that current legislation does not empower them to disconnect households.



- 50 -
Annex 2.3
Page 4
Stronger legislation, however, may not help greatly as it is technically difficult to disconnect many
individual households due to the absence of service or meter valves.
Table 2 Household energy tariffs in nominal and real terms
Dec-93        Jun-94       Dec-94         Jun-95       Dec-95
-------------------------F----------------F----------------F--------------------------------F----------------
Gas tariff (manat            144           432         1,210         6,350         6,350
per MCM)
--------------------------F----------------F----------------F----------------F----------------F----------------
Index in realterms           100            91            59           192           168
Electricity tariff          0.26             I           2.7'           18'           18
(manat per kWh)
Index in realterms           100           117            73          302           264
Kerosene (manat                5            16            90          420           420
per liter)
-e --------------   -         ---------------- -------- - -------------- --F-------------- --F------'--------
Index in real terms          100            97           126          367           320
,- - - - - - - - - - - --    - - - - - - - -- I - - - - - - -- I--- -- -,-.--- -.-.-----I - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Gasoline (manat               17           100           500         1,100         1,100
per liter)
-------------------------.---------------- ---------------- ---------------- ---------------- ----------------
Index in real terms          100           180           207,         283,          247
Costs of Household Energy
Costs of Gas Use
10.    The first column of Table 3 below sets out estimated gas bills by decile. These estimates are
based on gas consumption norms, the current gas tariff for household consumers, and data on household
size and appliance use for cooking and heating from the Household Survey.2 The average cooking bill
is estimated to be some M600 per month. The average space heating and water heating bills (weighted
for alternative appliances) are estimated at M2,440 and M I, 150 per month, respectively. However, not
all gas consuming households use gas for all three services. The total gas bill could be as low as M600
for those using gas cookers alone, and as high as M4,190 for households using all three services. Using
Household Survey data on the use of gas, the average gas bill is estimated to be M l,877 per winter
month. The distribution of estimated bills across the income deciles is relatively even. In other words,
the variation in appliance use across the deciles is counter-acted by the larger family sizes of poorer
deciles.
2      The estimation assumes that 50 percent of households using gas for either cooking or heating use
gas-fired appliances for water heating. This is based on estimates by Sofregaz. Specific appliances used
for water heating are based on appliances registered with Azerigaz for the rayons receiving gas supplies.



- 51 -
Annex 2.3
Page 5
11.    It should be noted that, because of the structure of the norms, gas bills for households with gas
heat are higher in the winter months, since the heating charge is not applied during the other seasons. In
order to provide a basis for comparison with total household expenditures and also for comparison with
the survey (which was carried out during the winter), the estimates below are based on winter month
billings. However, if heating tariffs were levellized over the year (i.e. payable, but at a lower rate, in
each month), the monthly cost of heating with gas would be significantly lower than is implied in the
Table 3.
Table 3 Average Gas Bills (manat per winter month)
Decile      Estimated bill       Bill          Bill         Surveyed        Surveyed
based on      discounted    discounted      heating bills   heating bills
household          for          at 50          for gas         for all
characteristics   pensioners     percent       consumers       consumers
------------- _-____-__-__ ---- ----__-__-__ - ---_ _------------------------------.----------------
I                    1,746         1,067           873               516         2,505
---------------------------------.---------------------------------------------------------------------
2                    1,983         1,238           992             1,141          9,355
- -------- --- -t--- --- ------ --- ---- ----------------- -------- --- --- ---r--------------------r-----------------
3                    1,934         1,212           967             1,512         11,056
---------------------------------r---------------T----- - ------------------------r-----------------
4                    2,043         1,304          1,021            1,058         14,841
-         ---            ---  ---         ---              ---v         - -    -   - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - -                                                                                                                       
5                    2,347         1,621          1,173            5,683        20,991
-- -- -- -- -- -- -t- - -- -- -- -- - -- - -- - - - - - ---------------- - -- - -- - -- - - - -I- - --r--------------------r-----------------
6                    1,930         1,324           965             2,888        25,768
7                    2,206         1,592          1,103            2,981        24,406
8                    1,499         1,151           749             2,008        34,401
- ---------t---------------------r--------------- -----------------r---------------------r-----------------
9                    1,725         1,320           863             4,909        31,771
10                   1,565         1,194           782             2,050        30,955
- - -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- - ---- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - -- -------------------r---------
Average              1,877         1,284           939             2,380        20,454
Source: LE estimates and Household Survey
12.    At present, many consumers are eligible for discounts, ranging between 10 percent and 100
percent, on their gas bills. Table 4 below sets out the consumer categories and the discount available.
Consumers claiming these concessions are asked to submit documents to verify their claims. There
appeared to be some confusion both within the gas company and among the general population over
these categories, which suggests that there is considerable leeway for interpretation. For example,
conflicting reports were received as to whether pensioners were eligible for concessions. There was also
confusion over the definition of families, and whether it comprises all members living together or only
immediate family. Furthermore, some of the categories may be inconsistent. For example, it is unclear
whether invalids of the Karabakh war are entitled to a 100 percent or 50 percent discount.
13.    These concessions cover a substantial number of consumers. Both Bakgaz and Azerigaz believe
that some 50 percent of household consumers enjoy concessions on their gas bills. Sofregaz's recent
work identified that of the 3,326 MCM supplied in September 1995 in Sabahel district:
-      35 percent was supplied free of charge;
-      8 percent was sold at a 90 percent discount;



- 52 -                                           Annex 2.3
Page 6
-       8 percent was sold at a 50 percent discount; and
-       only 49 percent was charged at the full tariff.
14.     Sofregaz estimate a weighted discount to households of 53 percent arising from these
concessions. The second and third columns of Table 3 above show the sharp impact of these
concessions on gas bills. The discount offered to households with a pensioner reduces the average bill
by almost 30 percent. An effective discount to all households of 50 percent reduces the estimated bill to
M939.
15.     The cost of these exemptions and discount is borne by the State budget.  However, there are
substantial arrears in disbursements from the State Budget for these subsidies. In other words, the de
facto cost of these exemptions is borne by the gas distribution companies. It should be emphasized that
any increase in gas tariffs increases the cost of these subsidies to the State Budget.
Table 4 Concessionary Consumer Categories
Concession             Consumer Groups
100 percent           Teachers
War veterans and invalids
Elderly people over 70 years old, living alone
Refugees
------------------------r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
90 percent             SOCAR personnel (both active and retired) granted concessions before 1983
_       _ __-    - - - - -- - r--- -  --~~~~~- -- -- -- -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
50 percent             Pensioners
:Labor veterans with more than 25 years of service, unemployed and living
alone
-------------------F------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Households who suffered bereavement in the January 20th 1990 uprising
Households who suffered injury or bereavement in the Chernobyl nuclear
accident
I.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:Households who suffered bereavement in December I Ith 1988 air battle
Households with members serving on the front line, wounded or bereaved in
the Karabakh war
......- - - - - -  . - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
'Category I or 2 invalids
,  .. ......... ...... --       -- -r    -- -- -- -- -- --- --- -- --- --- -- --- -- --- --- -- --- -- --- --- -- --- -- --- --- -- --- --
25 percent             Category 3 invalids
Source: Bakgaz and Sofregaz
16.     The final two columns of Table 3 show the average household expenditure quoted for heating in
the Household Survey. For households consuming gas, the quoted heating bills are not significantly out
of line with the estimated the gas bill (column 1) - except at the lower-income levels, where
concessionary tariffs may be more prevalent. In some instances, the quoted heating bills may be higher
than the estimated gas bill, since not all gas consuming households use gas for heating, and other heating
fuels are typically higher cost.



- 53 -
Annex 2.3
Page 7
17.    Quoted heating bills for households not using gas are significantly higher at an average M20,454.
In other words, the cost of heating with fuels other than gas rapidly increases energy bills. The variation
in energy bills across income deciles is shown in Figure 3.
Figure 3 Average heating costs and estimated gas bills
35 0 0           .0......  .  , ...
30000
25000
120000 .                                                . Heating costs
-I15000 .  . S=                                      Heating costs - gas
consuming households
E00stimtedgas bill
1   2    3   4   5   6    7   8   9   10
-  poor          rich ----
Source: LE estimates and HouseiioT& Survey
Costs of Other Energy
18.    Residential electricity tariffs are also heavily subsidized in Azerbaijan. The current household
tariff is MI 8 per kWh for monthly consumption under 200 kWh. Higher consumption attracts a higher
tariff - M45 per kWh up to 300 kWh and M70 thereafter. Households registered to use electricity for
cooking are allowed 300 kWh at the M 18 tariff, and M45 per kWh thereafter. The M 18 per kWh tariff is
estimated to be less than 20 percent of production cost by Azerenerji, and compares with an industrial
tariff of M184 per kWh.
19.    The average electricity bill based on an average consumption of 294 kWh would be M7,830 per
month. This is considerably higher than electricity bills quoted in the Household Survey. The average
bill quoted in the survey was M3,940, dropping to M3,300 for households that use gas. Part of the
discrepancy may be attributable to the fact that concessions similar to those afforded to gas users are also
granted to electricity consumers.
2
20.    District heat services are also heavily subsidized. In Baku, the household tariff is M81 per m
giving an average winter bill of M3,645 for a 45m  dwelling.3 As with gas, there are significant
weaknesses in the billing and collection systems, and a long list of consumer discounts for both
electricity and district heat consumers. In consequence, there are heavy arrears amongst household
3      The average size of dwelling is based on the Household Survey.



- 54 -
Annex 2.3
Page 8
consumers. Bakteploset, the district heating company in Baku, estimates that only 10 percent to 15
percent of households pay for the energy consumed. Similarly, cash receipts at Azerenerji amount to less
than 10 percent of billings.
21.    While electricity and gas prices for households are heavily subsidized, wood, petroleum
products, and other non-network fuels in Azerbaijan increasingly reflect market prices. The price gap
between market and subsidized fuels is significant. For example, it is estimated that households in
northern Azerbaijan may spend up to M40,000 per winter month on wood fuel. Similarly, one month's
supply of LPG for cooking can cost Ml 5,000 for a 20 kg cylinder (excluding the capital cost of the
cylinder).
22.   The imbalance of relative prices ensures that network fuels are the preferred energy source, if
available. The cheapest heating fuel is natural gas, followed by district heat, and electricity.4 The
differential access to network fuels under the Government's policy of banning gas imports suggests that
distorted relative prices for energy products are giving rise to significant income re-distribution between
Baku and households outside Baku. This is strongly corroborated by the Household Survey. Average
heating bills for households using gas are only 11 percent of bills for all households.
Household Income and Expenditure - Survey Results
23.    Household expenditure in Azerbaijan for all households and gas consuming households are
shown in Table 5. Average consumption for all households is just under $200 per month. Food
comprises over half of total consumption for all households, and bread is the most important food
product consumed.
24.    Expenditures of gas consuming households are broadly similar to those of average households,
except that:
-      heating bills for gas consuming households are a fraction of the national average;
-      gas consuming households have much higher housing costs; and
-      gas consuming households consume less food, mainly due to lower household production.
These observations hold across all income deciles, and in large part reflect the urban location of gas
consuming households.
4      This ranking is partially re-enforced by the capital cost of switching from gas to electricity -
electricity heaters in Baku retail for between US $20 (M90,000) and $100 (M450,000).



- 55 -
Annex 2.3
Page 9
Table 5 Average Household Expenditure (manat per month)
All Households            Gas Consuming
Households
Total Expenditure                                         880,552                 871,432
___________________________-----_---------+-------------------------------F-------------------------
Electricity                                                 3,939         .         3,326
Heating                                                    20,454                   2,380
Housing                                                    93,461                 188,654
Food                                                     541,469 |                467,015
4.I.------------------------------------- ------ ------------------- -------------------------
Bought food                                             419,122                 414,661
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Own Consumption                                          89,275                   18,850
Gifts received                                           33,072                   33,504
o/w Bread                                               138,913                   96,101
Cigarettes and alcohol                                     21,079                  21,930
Transfers                                                  27,082                  23,949
Memo Items:
_____________________--- _----------------  --T ----------------     -------------
Total Expenditure (US$)                                    198.32                  196.27
Cash Expenditure (US$)                                     170.77                   1 184.48
Cash Food/Cash Expenditure                                 55.3%                    50.6%
Source: Household Survey
25.     The distribution of total household expenditure by decile is shown in Figure 4. It is of interest to
note that even the households in the lowest expenditure decile report monthly expenditures of
approximately US$ 50 per month.
Figure 4 Household expenditure by decile
2500000
2000000 t
15s00000t                                        
I1000000 -
_--- Al households
500000 -                                                   Gas consuting households
1    2    3    4    5    8    7    8    9    10
-   poor                 rich 



- 56 -
Annex 2.3
Page 10
26.   The reported average household incomes for all households and for gas consuming households
are shown in Table 6. Average household income is well over $50 per month including salaries and
allowances but only a quarter of the expenditures reported. The average value of the first salary is
roughly in line with the national averages produced by Goskomstat. Again, there are significant
differences between gas consuming households and the national average:
gas consuming households have a higher income;
gas consuming households earn higher salaries and receive somewhat higher transfers and
allowances; and
gas consuming households earn far less from the sale of agricultural produce than the average.
Table 6 Average household income (manat per month)
All Households       Gas Consuming
Households
Total Income                                  244,26&d.           283,727
------------------------------------+- -                   - -----
Salary I                                       79,225             141,657
Salary 2                                       42,546              50,141
Sale of produce                                35,398               5,876
Transfers                                      17,966              20,612
Pensions                                       17,201              18,329
Bread allowances                                5,813               5,537
Other state allowances                          9,934              12,792
Memo items:
Total Income (US$)            I                 55.02               63.90
Salary I (US$)                                  17.84               31.90
Salary/Total income                            49.9%'               67.6%
Allowances/Total Income                         6.4%                 6.5%
Source: Household Survey
27.   Again, these conclusions hold across all income deciles. The distribution of reported income
across expenditure deciles is shown in Figure 5.



- 57-
Annex 2.3
Page 1 I
Figure 5 Household income by expenditure decile
700000
600000
500000i
4 t                                        1t
300000it                               A
!+Gas consuming.
E  200000            e                           ;    households
---- AN households
0     ; ---,- |----   I  I  .,I
1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10
<-..-- poor        rich ---->
28.   While the three- to four-fold discrepancy between reported incomes and expenditures is
significant, it is typical in household surveys to find that incomes are under-reported while expenditures
are over-reported. In additionr,the-inclusion of non-cash expenditures such as imputed rent and the value
of own production in the expenditure figures, without also including them in income, distorts the
normally-expected balance between the two. This discrepancy is not viewed as discrediting the survey
findings, although it can create some problems in establishing a reliable basis for assessing the impacts
of price increases on household budgets. The Poverty Assessment team is currently reviewing the survey
data with a view to developing an agreed measure of income/expenditure which will give a reasonable
basis for evaluating the well-being of the population. Once this work is completed, the assessment of the
affordability of household gas price increases will be reviewed. One noteworthy observation which can
be made by comparing Figures 4 and 5 is that the discrepancy between reported expenditures and
incomes is less in the lower expenditure deciles (less than 2 times) that in the highest deciles
(approximately 4 times), particularly for gas consuming households. Hence, the problem of selecting a
base for affordability assessments is of less concern at these income levels.
Impacts of Higher Gas Tariffs
29.    Figure 6 shows current household expenditure on gas as a proportion of household income across
all deciles. In order to err on the side of caution, income for gas consuming households rather than
expenditure has been used as the comparator for gas bills. In addition, current discounts were excluded
from the estimates, and bills were based on the higher tariffs applicable during the winter months. The
Figure shows the proportion of income which would be spent on gas consumption at three different tariff
levels:
at current tariffs;
following a three-fold increase in tariffs, assuming no reduction in gas consumption; and



- 58 -
Annex 2.3
Page 12
-      following a ten-fold increase in gas tariffs over current levels. A ten-fold increase, together with
a 50 percent increase in communal tariffs, would be sufficient to provide an average margin of
US$4.00 per MCM on projected 1996 gas sales.5
The figure also shows the heating bills reported by all households across Azerbaijan for comparison.
This can be roughly interpreted as the revealed ability of households to pay for energy.
30.    At current tariff levels, household expenditure on gas is around I percent of income for the
poorest households. A three-fold increase in tariffs would raise average gas spending to around 3 percent
for the poorest deciles. Nevertheless, this remains generally below the expenditure on heat reported by
all consumers in the Household Survey. Furthernore, even at the three-fold tariff, expenditure on gas
would be smaller than that on alcohol and cigarettes and most other expenditure items in the household
budget.
Figure 6 Gas expenditure as a proportion of household income (winter month 1995/96)
12%
_ 0                           ___                                __  __
-                 I%~~~~~~~T .W Wof h-
31.    A I 0-fold increase in tariffs, however, would be more problematic, at least at the lower income
levels. Following such a tariff increase, expenditure on gas during the winter months would be pushed
over IO percent of income for the poorest 30 percent of households. For the poorest 50 percent of gas
consumers, this would be bigher than their counterparts are currently spending on alternative energy
sources. For the poorest 30 percent, expenditure on gas would come second only to food, and would in
all likelihood necessitate cuts in non-luxury consumption.
32.    Consequently, a ten-fold increase in gas tariffs is likely to require compensatory measures in
order to protect low-income households. A number of options are available, some of which are
discussed in the following section.
s      The S4.00/MCM margins is viewed as necessary to provide Azerigaz with an acceptable net income.



- 59 -
Annex 2.3
Page 13
Mitigation Options to Protect the Poor
33.   The key factors which need to be considered in assessing alternative mechanisms for protecting
low income households from impacts of higher energy prices include: (i) the overall cost of the program,
which in turn relates to the degree to which support can be targeted specifically to those households
where it is most needed; and (ii) the availability of an effective delivery mechanism.
34.   At present, gas consumers enjoy protection against the full cost of gas supply through three
channels:
-      a subsidized price available to all household consumers, financed by higher tariffs for industrial
and commercial consumers and by financial losses for the gas company;
-      exemptions and exclusions for specific categories of consumers, financed by the State budget;
and
-      a notional energy allowance bundled with the bread compensation scheme to all non working
pensioners, children of poor families, students and refugees. The bread compensation scheme
covers almost 50 percent of the population, and is financed by the State budget.
35.   Raising household gas prices in the first instance will reduce the direct tariff subsidy, which is
currently borne by non-residential gas users and by the financial losses of the gas company. However,
there will continue to be a substantial degree of cross-subsidy which benefits all household consumers in
direct proportion to the amount of gas which they use. Since the volumes of gas consumed are not
significantly different among expenditure deciles (Table 3), this cross subsidy affords benefits to
households at above-average income levels as well as to the poorer households.
36.    Higher household gas prices will also increase the burden on the State Budget arising from tariff
exemptions. Assuming that concessionary tariffs are equivalent to 50 percent of household gas charges,
the subsidy at current prices amounts to approximately $1.9 million per year. Increases in gas tariffs
would lead to a proportionate increase in this subsidy burden. The increasing burden on the budget
cannot be lightly dismissed. Indeed, it is suggested that these exemptions be eliminated for the following
reasons:
-      there is little evidence to suggest that exemptions are well-targeted to protect vulnerable groups;
-     the financing burden of these subsidies is confused as fiscal pressures have led to substantial
arrears from the State Budget to the gas companies; and
-     the exemptions complicate the social safety net provision.
In short, these resources would be better allocated through the general safety net on a means tested or
targeted basis.
37.    Targeted options to protect the poor from an increase in gas tariffs can be either internal to the
gas tariff and billing system or part of the general social safety net. As an example of options which are
internal to the gas tariff system, careful refinement of the system of norms, pending the introduction of
metering, could reduce gas bills for the poorest while allowing overall increases in household gas tariffs.
At present gas bills are based on the size of household, and the appliances used. Data from the
Household Survey indicates that poorer groups have larger households, and use cookers for both heating
as well as for cooking. Hence, for example, a social gas tariff could:



- 60 -
Annex 2.3
Page 14
-      place an upper limit on household size of 4 for the purpose of calculating bills; and
-      reduce consumption norms to, say, 5 m3 per month (from the current 20 mi3) per person for
cooking with gas.
38.   The impact of such a tariff policy is illustrated in Figure 7. Gas bills as a proportion of
household income would fall to just over 7 percent (from around 10 percent under the ten-fold tariff
increase proposal) for poorer households. Whilst such a tariff structure would benefit all households, it
would benefit the poorest more than the richest.
Figure 7 Protecting Poorer Gas Consumers: Tariff Restructuring
I 0%
39.   Such a gas-specific scheme would be simple and quick to introduce and would facilitate an
increase in the average residential tariff. Furthermore, it could be considered a short term measureo
pending the introduction of meters and the redesign of the tariff structure. At that point in time, a lifeline
block with a preferential tariff could be considered. The principle drawback of such a scheme, however,
is that it distorts relative prices further, and reinforces incentives to use gas inefficiently - namely, using
cookers for heating. In addition, while low-income households are the primary beneficiaries of the
change, the preferential tariff continues to confer a substantial monetary beniefit on high-income
households. Perhaps more importantly, while the reduction in gas bills is significant, the poorest 40
percent of gas consuming households would spend more on heat than is presently the case across
Azerbaijan.
40.   Including support for gas costs as part of the general social safety net eliminates some of the
problems associated with fuirther manipulations of the gas tariff. In this case, however, a delivery
mechanism to handle the targeting and transfer of the subsidy is needed. One option would be to utilize
the existing bread compensation scheme as a basis for delivering a targeted subsidy for gas supply.
41.   The Social Protection Fund's bread compensation scheme attempts to target benefits exclusively
to the poor. Compensation under the bread scheme is available to:
-non-working pensioners - M8,500 per month; and



- 61 -
Annex 2.3
Page 1 5
children of poor families - M6,000 per child - where poverty is specified as three times the
minimum wage for each member of the household. At the present minimum wage of M5,500,
the average threshold in Azerbaijan would be M80,850.
42.   In addition, the Ministry of Education and the Refugee Committee make similar compensatory
payments to students and refugees. The latter are means tested in the same way as the SPF's poor family
allowance. These social welfare payments are financed directly by the State Budget.
43.   The bread compensation scheme has been criticized as poorly targeted on the basis that:
-      non-working pensioners are not means tested;
-      the means test for poor families considers only formal sector employment to assess income. All
informal sector activity and most private employment is not captured; and
-      the income thresholds and the income period used to assess claims are distorted by Azerbaijan's
rapid inflation.
44.    Results from the Household Survey show that, while households in all deciles are receiving
benefits under the bread compensation scheme, the bread allowances are generally progressively
targeted. In absolute terms, the poorest decile receives an average M7,200 per household against M2,900
in the wealthiest decile. In relative terms, of course, the allowance is much more important to poorer
households. In short, the scheme is progressive and reasonably well targeted to the poor. Non-working
pensioners are more heavily concentrated amongst poorer households; and the average income threshold
of M80,850 does not appear to be fundamentally out of line. The problem appears to be one of
implementation rather than design. For example, all gas consuming households earn salaries above the
income threshold, yet most are receiving benefits. Similarly, the SPF report that some 1.1 million non-
working pensioners received payments under the scheme in 1995. However, the Household Survey
suggests that, at most, there are 700,000 non-working pensioners in Azerbaijan. These issues of design
and implementation will be considered further by the Azeri authorities and the World Bank under the
Poverty Assessment over the coming months.
45.    A scheme of providing fuel coupons along with bread allowances through the bread
compensation scheme would provide a convenient and relatively well targeted mechanism for delivering
protection against gas price increases to low-income households. Whether these coupons should be
focussed strictly on gas users, however, raises broader issues of equity. The present policy of gas
shortages and selective supply is highly inequitable. As seen above, gas consumers spend less on energy
and have higher incomes. Introducing a gas-specific safety net would simply reinforce these inequalities.
Indeed, even if gas supplies are restored to the rest of the country, it is not at all clear that gas consumers
should receive preferential treatment as compared to consumers of other network fuels or market-priced
fuels.
46.   Instead, it would be preferable to introduce energy coupons which would be distributed
alongside the bread compensation scheme. It would be more efficient if these coupons could be to meet
energy bills for a range of network fuels; however, they could equally be restricted initially to gas
consumption. Such coupons would:
be targeted to the poor rather than all households;
not discriminate between energy products consumed;
support a more general realignment of tariffs for all network fuels; and



- 62 -
Annex 2.3
Page 16
-     reduce the risk and level of arrears following an increase in energy tariffs, and pending
strengthening of the billing and collection systems.
47.   The targeting of these coupons would mirror the bread compensation scheme. In other words,
benefits would be progressively distributed across income groups, and the targeting would improve as
the bread compensation scheme is reviewed. Furthermore, given that the bread compensation scheme is
already up and running, the energy coupons could be introduced quickly and without great administrative
expense. The potential impact on gas consumers of such a proposal is illustrated in Figure 8. The figure
illustrates the impact of a M12500 energy coupon to non-working pensioners only. (It does not consider
the means tested child benefit). As can be seen, the incidence of gas bills on the poorest 20 percent of
gas consuming households is sharply reduced.
Figure 8 Protecting Poor Consumers: Energy Coupons
1    2     0    4     6    a     7    a     I    10
*-      FM -~
48.   As the figure shows, the energy coupon scheme directs the total costs of the subsidy towards low
income households more effectively than adjustments to the gas tariff. While the example tested (i.e. a
coupon of M12,500 only to non-working pensioners) would still leave the average cost of heating well
above the revealed willingness to pay (i.e. the current level of household heating costs), additional
refinement of the coupon scheme to include other households at low income levels would help to rectify
this problem.
Fiscal Impacts of Alternative Subsidy Mechanisms
49.   At present, gas consumers are subsidised through the subsidised tariff available to all household
consumers, and discounts available to specific consumer categories. The former subsidy is financed by
high industrial and commercial tariffs, and the financial losses and arrears of the gas distribution
company. The latter subsidy, in principle, is financed by the Government. In practice, there are
substantial arrears in budgetary disbursements.



- 63 -
Annex 2.3
Page 17
50.    Table 7 shows gas subsidies per annum under different tariff options and by source of finance.6
At current tariffs and assuming that gas supplies are restored households are subsidised by over $36
million. This comprises the discounts offered to specific consumer groups, and the cost of holding tariffs
below cost recovery levels. The overwhelming proportion of this subsidy is financed by Azerigaz itself.
This ensures that without tariff reform, the gas distribution company is highly unlikely to become
financially viable.
Table 7 Gas Subsidies under Different Tariffs (US$m)
Tariff Option      Azerigaz           State           Total
Financed        Financed
Current tariff  :        34.12        1.90      :    36.02
Threefold            26.54            5.69            32.23
tariff
--------------------r-------------------g-- ----------------- --------------------
Ten fold tariff :    0.00       :     18.96     :      18.96
Social Tariff        14.51            0.00             14.51
--------I----  ----                      -       4-.....
Energy               0.00             14.51            14.51
Coupon
51.    As tariffs are increased, the cost of the subsidy declines and the financing burden shifts between
Azerigaz and the Government. In short, as tariffs rise, the cost of exemptions to specific consumer
categories rises rapidly. Under a M63,500 tariff, the cost of these exemptions to the Government would
be almost $19 million. Exemptions are not only poorly targeted but are expensive.
52.     Table 7 also shows the cost of the Social tariff and the cost of the energy coupon described
earlier. The cost of both these schemes is less than the cost of exemptions under a 10 fold tariff increase.
In formulating the Social Tariff and energy coupon options discussed above, effort was taken to keep the
over all subsidy cost the same. The analysis therefore strongly suggests that the most cost-effective
option available to deliver assistance to poor households is the energy coupon. At the same cost as the
Social Tariff, the energy coupon scheme makes a 10 fold tariff increase feasible.
53.    Nevertheless, increasing tariffs to M63,500 and introducing an energy coupon will increase the
cost of subsidies to the Government (but not to the economy) by $12.5 million. The resources required,
however, are relatively small - the bread compensation scheme was budgeted at almost $60 million for
1995. In return, Government will achieve better targeted assistance to poor households than is currently
provided through Azerigaz's financial losses and exemptions.
6      The subsidy is estimated as the difference between revenues under current tariffs and the M63,500 per
MCM tariff (assumed to be the cost recovery tariff). Hence, at current tariffs, this comprises a subsidy on gas
purchased from SOCAR and Turkmenistan, and on distribution costs.



- 64 -                                  Annex 2.4
Page I
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF THE LPG INDUSTRY
1. Production
1.     LPG is supplied from four different plants in Azerbaijan: (a) Aznefteyanacak (New Baku)
Refinery with a maximum yearly LPG production capacity of 90,000 tons, (b) Karadag natural gas
processing plant of SOCAR with a maximum yearly LPG production capacity of 30,000 tons, (c)
Azerigaz NGL processing unit operated by the LPG Branch with a maximum yearly LPG production
capacity of 1,100 tons, and (d) Sumgait (40 km. from Baku) Sythetic Rubber Factory owned by
Azerkimya, where propane and butane which are by-products of this chemical industry are retained by
the LPG Branch of Azerigaz .
2.     Production, however, is constrained by inputs to these plants which are not sufficient to produce
the maximum output. Particularly due to the decline in oil production and consequently the crude input
to the Aznefteyanacak Refinery and the limited amount of local gas production, the LPG production has
declined in 1994 and 1995. 2 The Karadag - SOCAR Gas Plant has worked at only 50% of capacity due
largely to inadequate compression of domestic gas supplies. The plant (built in the 1960's) is now
obsolete.
II. Consumption
3.     Local distribution peaked in 1989 with around 62,000 tons supplied by imports from Russia to
450,000 customers, but declined steadily to some 24,000 tons in 1994 supplied to 240,000 customers.
The sharp price increases beginning 1993 have caused a decline in demand particularly in households but
also industries (Tables I and 2). Table 1 shows a more slowly declining market for LPG use in cars in
1994 and 1995.
4.     In terms of demand outlook, the dependence on natural gas imports, the occasional shortages of
supply due to regional disruption in gas production, and the shortages in the remote regions of the
country not suitable for network distribution of natural gas could justify the expansion of LPG use for
cooking in the medium-term. It must be noted that the natural gas network is extended beyond the
maximum possible limits and the regions at the periphery and those that are beyond the network are good
candidates for expanding the LPG market. Particularly, following the Presidential Decree banning all
natural gas imports from Turkmenistan for the rest of 19953, the areas where gas is cut off will have
relatively higher demand for LPG. At the same time, it is envisaged that LPG usage for cooking will be
limited within this framework in areas where natural gas is available since LPG prices compare quite
The propane-butane fraction of this product is around 70-80% which is too high quality for the purposes of
cooking. Moreover, the Sumgait plant sells this high quality product at 1,500,000 manats/ton while the other LPG
producing plants sell at 467,000 manats/ton. Note that the retail price is 750,000 manats/ton. There is demand for
this product in Russia but the roads are closed.
2 The production plan by the Ministry of Economy for 1994 was 70,000 tons, however only 22,000 tons were
supplied to the LPG Branch of Azerigaz for distribution during this year. The plan set by the Ministry for 1995 is
102,000 tons (70,000 tons from the Aznefteyanacak Refinery and 30,000 tons from the Karadag Plant), however
the actual distribution by the LPG Branch of Azerigaz for the first 8 months was limited to 10,005 tons.
3The decree was issued following balance of payments problems which to a large extent were caused by natural gas
imports from Turkmenistan. Virtually all the country outside the three largest cities was without gas in the second
half of 1995.



- 65 -
Annex 2.4
Page 2
4
unfavorably to natural gas which is heavily subsidized4. Regarding LPG use in cars, the current high
demand seems transitory due to price distortions between LPG and gasoline. No further expansion is
envisaged in the medium-term when the gap between these prices dissappears.
Table 1: Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (ton)
1993         1994          1995
(8 months)
Population          16,145       17,501          6,325
Industry             2,930        1,213            519
Transportation       5,671        4,910           3,161
Other               -             1,304           1,153
TOTAL               24,746       23,625          10,005
III. Distribution
5.     There are eight LPG bottling plants in Azerbaijan: Ali-Bayramli, Yevlak, Berde, Horadiz,
Sumgait, Siyazan, Nakhchevan, and Baku. LPG is carried by rail tankers with 25 ton capacity from the
producing plants to the first five of these bottling plants. The LPG Branch owns some 360-390 rail
tankers for this purpose. The last three bottling plants are supplied by road tankers, although supply to
the bottling plant in Nakhchevan is handicapped by the political situation in Nagorno-Karabag.
Distribution through cylinders/road tankers compares unfavorably to rail-based distribution in terms of
capacity, i.e cylinders can handle only five tons while the capacity of rail tankers ranges between 20-25
tons. Moreover, the road tankers are rather old and lack adequate metering sytems. They should
eventually be replaced with larger capacity tankers.
6.     From the bottling plants to end-users, the shipment is again made by road tankers/cylinders to
households and car filling stations. Most of the LPG provided to households is supplied in customer-
owned bottles. (Some 477,000 bottles are owned by households while the LPG Branch owns some
29,000 bottles). Every year some 80,000 bottles are tested and about 5,000 are considered out of order.
There is a bottle producing plant in Baku and the current price of one bottle is around 100,000-120,000
manats (around $US20) which is not affordable to a large part of the population.
7.     Transportation costs vary depending on the distance. The railway costs are particularly high.
This is mainly due to the high maintenance and operational costs of the rail tankers, which are about 40
years old . Moreover, there is no local capacity in the country to fully repair the railtankers. In some
cases, the cost of providing LPG to certain regions exceeds the selling price for that region due to the
decline in sales and the high fixed costs of operations. In remote regions where railroads do not exist,
distribution of LPG through road tankers is carried out at a loss to the company. On the other hand,
distribution expenses to filling stations for cars are much less than those distributed to households for
cooking i.e. around 30,000-40,000 manats/ton to filling stations as opposed to average regional
distribution costs of 87,000 manats to Berde (remotest region supplied) and 60,000 manats/ton to Ali-
Bayramli (nearer region).
4 The current price of LPG is 750,000 manats/ton or $US 169.1 /ton at the current exchange rate. This is the
equivalent of SUS62.7/1000 cm of natural gas. Gas to households is sold at a much lower price of SUSI.41/1000
cm.
5 Every 10 years there is a need of total capital repair which currently costs a total of around 10 million manats
(SUS 2,222). Every two years containers inside the rail tankers need to be repaired which costs 350,000
manats/rail tanker ($US 77) .



-66-                                 Annex 2.4
Page 3
IV. LPG Utilization in Cars
8.     Demand for LPG in the transport sector has been quite stable (see Table 1) despite the sharp
price increases. This is the result of a faster increase in gasoline prices than LPG prices for cars.
Currently gasoline is 1,000 manats/It. as opposed to 425 manats/It. of LPG. The conversion kits that are
installed in cars were previously imported from Ukraine and due to the disruption of this trade currently
there is a shortage. The value of these kits is reported to be around $100-120. LPG usage in
transportation is not widespread in the country and the number of filling stations are limited and
concentrated in the Baku area: (a) between Baku - Karadag (8-10 km. from Baku), (b) Nizami
Neighborhood - Baku, (c) Binagadi Neighborhood - Baku, (d) Sumgait (40 km. from Baku), (e)
Lenkaran, and (f) Ali-Bayramli (recent and not yet in operation). In addition to these, there are 12 road
tankers that are used as mobile filling stations. The average storage capacity of filling stations is 100 m3
or 20 to 45 days of sales which is oversized. Due to the shortage of LPG in the country, as opposed to the
ready availability of gasoline from domestic oil production, it is unlikely that LPG use in transportation
is economic.
V. Trade
9.     Currently, there is a limited regional market for exports.-LPG was previously supplied to the
region (also to Azerbaijan) by the Grozny Refinery in Chechnia-Russia and due to the war in this region
these supplies have been disrupted. Therefore, currently there is demand in Armenia, Dagestan (Russia),
Ukraine, and also Belorussia. However, all routes to these markets are closed due to the political
situation even though railroads exist to realize the shipments.
10.    The LPG Branch exported 2,000 tons of LPG to Georgia in 1994 and has a new contract to ship
2,000 tons in 1995. The shipment is made by rail to the Georgian border. The contracted price is
$200/ton fob Tblisi in hard currency which includes a transport cost of 113,680 manats to the Georgian
border (about $US25). Products for export are bought from the LPG plants at a pre-tax price (similar to
exported petroleum products). However, the contract between the LPG Branch of Azerigaz and the
Aznefteyanacak Refinery requires the approval of the contracted price by the Refinery and by the
Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, which adds a bureaucratic burden on the company and regional
trade. On the other hand, export revenues are actually collected, and in the medium term, the regional
market could expand as political stability is.reached.
VI. Pricing and Taxation
I1.    Since the beginning of 1993, LPG prices have sharply increased. Currently, the ex-refinery price
of LPG is 467,712 manats/ton (around $104/ton) while the wholesale price for all types of consumers is
750,000 manats/ton ($169/ton). The LPG retail business is subject to nine different taxes including VAT,
Income Tax, Road Fund. However, despite the sharp fall in sales in 1994 and 1995, Azerigaz claims that
the LPG Branch has made a net profit of 169 million manats in 1994 ($US 116,000 at the average annual
exchange rate) and 300 million manats for the 8 months of 1995 (around $US 60,000). The mode of
immediate payment at the sale point makes collection more reliable compared to natural gas and the
company seems to follow a strict policy of payment collection.



- 67 -
Annex 2.4
Page 4
Table 1: LAquefled Petroleum Gas Pricing
(manhts/ton - USS/ton)
Jai-93     N*v-93        Jud-94      OCt-94      lk,v-94      Feb-95       Ar-95
(nuautsbtn)        2,800       15,667      34,537      115,622     156,100      400,000     750,000
(aUSiron)           58.0         79.0        35.2         51.4         45.7        90.2        169.1
Table 2: Ditributlo  of LPG
1. Tonrm Handx d              2. Sk SsmDlv to dhe Mid  of Tr.uI               3 Number of Co _nnim
(nit)                               (incuded in 1)
1985   54,000                           1969             16,800                  1960      9,800
1986   52,500                          1990              14,00                  1965     41,300
1987   53,400                           1991             11,430                  1970     88,900
1988   58,300                          1992              9,501                   1975    245,100
1989   61,900                           1993             2,194                   1980    441,500
1990   54,400                          1994             4,300*                   1993  248,000*
1991   50,000
1992   35,600
1993   24,746
1994  41,800
"esimaus 2,863 towns or villags
Sowrce:   Azerbaijan Go Tnnmmso  SWd Disuibutou Systam RPoo nWniion mnd Metering Study and
Projec RPwpmt_Sofrep



- 68 -
Annex 2.5
Page 1
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
ACTION PLAN ON GAS PAYMENTS
This Action Plan is based upon the rights and obligations of Azerigaz under Decrees of the
Cabinet of Ministers No. 156 (April 20, 1994 ) and No. 13 (February 7, 1996) to require pre-payment for gas
and to cut off non-paying customers.
The Action Plan includes the following provisions:
I.     For revenue-earning customers
(a)          As of September 1, 1996, Azerigaz is required to supply gas only on receipt of Pre-payment
or Letter of Credit to all revenue earning customers with the exception of Azerenerji and
other enterprises which are providing services essential to the survival of the population (e.g.
district heating, bread production, water supply).
(b)          Effective December 1, 1996, the exception granted above to Azerenerji and other "essential"
enterprises will be withdrawn and they will be supplied on the same Pre-payment basis as
other revenue earning customers.
II.    For non-revenue-earning customers:
(c)          The list of agencies and entities to be exempted from using the Pre-payment or Letter of
Credit forms of payment should be finalized by the Government by August 23, 1996.
Exemptions will be based upon the importance of enterprises or entities to the social welfare
of the population or upon specific security and safety considerations.
(d)          In the event that exempted agencies fail to make timely payment for gas supply, the
Government will, beginning from January 1, 1997, take responsibility for their payment
obligations and will make prompt payment to Azerigaz on their behalf.



Annex 3.1
- 69 -                                        PPage 1
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF COST ESTIMATE
(thousand US$)
Azerigaz          Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5  Total
1996     1997      1998      1999     2000
1. CATHODIC PROTECTION
Foreign
Engineering      0       400       100      100                 600
Test Equipment      0        50                                     50
Materials      0       700       900      900       550      3050
Freight       0       18        23        23        14       76
Sub-total      0      1168      1023      1023      564      3776
Local
Engineering      0        38       48        38        20       144
Materials      0       153       213       156       80       602
Freight       0        3         4         3         2       12
Installation     0       76       106        77       40       299
Sub-total      0       270       371      274       142      1057
Total                            0     1438      1394      1297       705     4833
2. ANALYTICAL EQUIPMENT
Foreign
Gas Quality Equip.     0                110       100                210
Leak Detection      0      300       100                          400
Network Modelling      0       200      100                          300
Freight       0       15         9                           24
Training      0        60        30                           90
Sub-total      0       575       349       100        0      1024
Local
Engineering      0        30        30                           60
Materials      0       100        50                          150
Freight       0        2         1                            3
Installation     0      100        50                          150
Sub-total      0       232       131        0         0       363
Total                            0      807       480       100         0     1387
3. METERING
Foreign
Materials      0       876      3745     3240      1412      9273
Freight       0       26       112        97       42       278
Sub-total      0       902     3857      3337      1454      9551
Local
Engineering      0        45        85       70        50       250
Procurement       0        38       42        35        25       140
Materials      0        62       228       120       40       450
Freight       0        1         2         2         1        6
Installation     0       55       255       210       130      650
Sub-total      0       201       612      437       246      1496
Total                            0     1104      4470      3774      1700    11047
4. IMPLEMENTATION
Foreign
Implementation Assist.  100       400       300      100                 900
Sub-total    100       400       300       100        0       900
Local
Implementation     50       130       130      100        40       450
Sub-total     50       130       130       100       40       450
Total                          150      530       430       200       40      1350



Annex 3.1
Page 2
Azeigax           Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5  Total
_  1996     1997      1998      1999     2000
5. CORPORATIZATION SUPPORT
Foreign
Office Equipment      0       100      150                          250
Training      0       100       100                          200
Other        0      200       200                          400
Sub-total      0       400       450        0         0       850
Local
Training      0        20        20        10                 50
Other        0       30        30                           60
Sub-total      0        50        50        10        0       110
Total                            0      450       500        10         0      960
PROJECT TOTAL
Foreign
Total Base cost   100      3445      5979     4560      2018    16102
Physical Contingency    15       517      897       684       303     2415
Price Contingency     4       225       572      578       320      1699
Sub-total    119      4786      7448     5822      2641    20216
Local
Total Base cost    50       883      1294      821       427      3476
Physical Contingency     8       132      194       123        64      521
Price Contingency     2        58       124      104        68       355
Sub-total     59      1073      1612      1048      559      4353
Total
Total Base cost   150      4328      7274     5381      2446    19578
Physical Contingency    23      649      1091       807       367     2937
Price Contingency     6       283       696      682       388      2054
TOTAL PROJECT                  178     5260      9060     6870      3200    24569
SUMMARY
Component          Local    Foreign    Total
1. Cathodic Protection       1057      3776      4833
2. Testing Equipment          363      1024      1387
3. Metering                   1496     9551    11047
4. Implementation             450       900      1350
5. Corporatization Support     110      850       960
Total Base Cost  3476    16102    19578
Physical Contingency   521     2415      2937
Price Contingency   355      1699      2054
Project Total    4353    20216    24569



Annex 3.1
-71 -Page 3
Azwigaz           Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5  Total
1996     1997      1998      1999      2000
3a. CITY GATE METERING
Foreign
Materials       0       700      600       600                1900
Freight       0        21        18        18         0        57
Sub-total       0       721      618       618         0      1957
Local
Engineering       0       15        25        20                  60
Procurement       0          8       12         5                  25
Materials       0        22        38       20                  80
Freight       0         0         1         0                   2
Installation     0        55        95        60                 210
Sub-total       0       100       171      105         0       377
Total                            0       821       789       723         0      2334
3b. NEW INDUSTRIAL METERING
Foreign
Materials       0        15     1435      1300                2750
Freight       0         0        43        39         0        83
Sub-total       0        15      1478     1339         0      2833
Local
Engineering       0       20        20        20        20        80
Procurement       0         15       10        10        10        45
Materials       0        20        30        30       20       100
Freight       0         0         1         1         0         2
Installation     0                  70        70        60       200
Sub-total       0        55      131       131        110      427
Total                            0        71      1609      1470       110      3260
3c. REPLACEMENT INDUSTRIAL METERING
Fofeign
Materials       0         8     1650      1300      1192      4150
Freight       Q         0        50        39        36       125
Sub-total       0         8     1700      1339      1228      4275
Local
Engineering       0        10       40        30        30       110
Procurement       0         15       20        20        15        70
Materials       0        20        40       40        20       120
Freight       0         0         1         1         0         2
Installation     0                  90        80        70       240
Sub-total       0       45        191       171      135       542
Total                            0        54      1890      1510      1363      4817
3d. METER TESTING AND INSTALLATION EQUIPMENT
Foreign
Materials       0       153        60       40       220       473
Freight       0         5         2         1         7        14
Sub-total       0       158       62        41       227       487
Local
Engineering      0                                                 0
Procurement        0                                                0
Building for test equip.  0                 120        30                 150
Freight       0                                                0
Installation     0                                                 0
Sub-total       0         0       120       30         0       150
Total                            0       158       182        71       227       637



Annex 3.1
Page 4
Azerlgaz          Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5  Total
1996      1997      1998      1999      2000
3. TOTAL METERING
Foreign
Materials       0       876      3745      3240      1412      9273
Freight       0        26       112        97        42       278
Sub-total       0       902      3857      3337      1454      9551
Local
Engineering       0        45        85        70        50       250
Procurement        0        38        42        35        25       140
Materials       0        62       228       120        40       450
Freight       0         1         2         2         1         6
Installation     0        55       255       210       130       650
Sub-total       0       201       612       437       246      1496
Total                             0      1104      4470      3774      1700    11047



- 73 -                               Annex 3.1
Page 5
CATHODIC PROTECTION
MATERIAL PRICE SUMMARY
Item        Size     Total   Unit Cost Total Cost
_________  mm  Quantity    USD       USD
Isolating joint      50    22,000        60 1,320,000
Isolating joint     100     1,200        80    96,000
Isolating joint     150       400       300   120,000
Isolating joint     300       200       770   154,000
Isolating joint     400        35     1,094    38,276
Isolating joint     500         6     5,904    35,424
Isolating joint     700         6    17,856   107,136
Isolating joint   1,000         6    20,000   120,000
Isolating joint   1,200         2    20,000    40,000
CP stations        units      100     3,000   300,000
Steel pipe       tonnes       900       800   720,000
Total                                       3,050,836



Annex 3.1
Page 6
ANALYTICAL EQUIPMENT
Number   Unit Cost  Total
USD
Gas Quality Equipment
Pressure Gauge Calibration                                             1    10,000    10,000
Gas Chromatograph                                                      2    50,000   100,000
Hydrogen Sulphide H2S Analyser                                         1    15,000    15,000
Sulphur / Mercaptan Analyser                                           1    15,000    15,000
Water Dew Point Analyser                                               1    20,000    20,000
Hydrocarbon Dew Point Analyser                                         1    20,000    20,000
Analyser Calibration device                                            1    30,000    30,000
Gas Sampling, 10 kits & 40 bottles                                     1    60,000    60,000
Computer for storing and reporting data                          package    30,000    30,000
Sub-total                        300,000
Leak Detection
Mobile leak detection units                                            3    20,000    60,000
Hand held, solid state type                                           68     5,000   340,000
Sub-total                        400,000
Network Modelling
2 PC based systems, 1 for transmission and 1 for distribution.
Hardware computers, printers, digitizers, plotters etc.                2    25,000    50,000
Software, licences and initial programming.                            2   125,000   250,000
Sub-total                        300,000



- 75 -
METERING COST ESTIMATES                                                Annex 3.1
Pagc 7
Maximum     Type of      Upstream     Downstream     Quantity     Unit        Total
Capacity     Meter       Pressure      Pressure                   Cost        Cost
Nm3/hr                min/max. MBar)     Bar                      USD        USD
Vow Industrial Meters
16        G10         0.7 - 4 0.019 or 0.300         15       940        14,100
25        G16          0.7 - 4 0.019 or 0.300         16     1,600       25,600
40         G25         0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1        58     2,480      143,840
65        G40          0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1        56     3,050      170,800
100        G65          0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1       51      3,910      199,410
160       G100          0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1       81      4,365      353,565
250       G160          0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1        77     7,605      585,585
400        G250         0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1        43     9,180      394,740
650       G400          0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1        39    11,070      431,730
1000       G650          0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1        17    13,050      221,850
1600      G1000         0.7 - 25    0.019 - 16           8    20,520      164,160
2500      G1600         0.7 - 25    0.019 - 16           2    23,850       47,700
4000       G2500        0.7 - 25    0.019 - 16           0    25,650            0
5000      G4000         0.7 - 25    0.019- 16            2    27,900       55,800
L_________   ___________________     Sub-total               465              2,808,880
Maximum     Type of      Upstream     Downstream     Quantity     Unit        Total
Capacity     Meter       Pressure      Pressure                   Cost        Cost
Nm3/hr                min/max. (Bar)     Bar                      USD        USD
Replacement Industrial Meters
16        G10         0.7 - 4 0.019 or 0.300         21       940        19,740
25        G16          0.7 - 4 0.019 or 0.300         38     1,600       60,800
40         G25         0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1        50     2,480      124,000
65        G40          0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1       81      3,050      247,050
100        G65          0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1       86      3,910      336,260
160       G100          0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1       99      4,365      432,135
250       G160          0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1        71     7,605      539,955
400        G250         0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1        68     9,180      624,240
650       G400          0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1        74    11,070      819,180
1000   instr. pkge       0.7 - 4 0.019 - 0.3 - 1        37     9,200      340,400
1600   instr. pkge      0.7 - 25    0.019 - 16          28     9,200      257,600
2500   instr. pkge      0.7 - 25    0.019 - 16          17     9,200      156,400
4000   instr. pkge      0.7 - 25    0.019 - 16           8     9,200       73,600
5000   instr. pkge      0.7 - 25    0.019 - 16          12     9,200      110,400
Sub-total              690              4,141,760
Maximum     Type of      Upstream     Downstream     Quantity     Unit        Total
Capacity     Meter       Pressure      Pressure                   Cost        Cost
Nrn3/hr J _____mini/max. (Bar)           Bar      ______          USO        USO
New Cornmmrcial Metors
1N 6       610         0.7-4 0.019or0.300           100        940       94,000
25        G16          0.7 - 4 0.019 or 0.300       100      1,600      160,000
I__ _ _   I___ _    Sub total         200                 254000
Sumnmary__ _ _ _ _ _                  __ _ _  _ _ _
Ouantity       Cost       Consumption
000 USD         E6M3/yr
City Gate Stations               214          1,906        7,437
New Industrial Meters            465          2,809          413
Replacement Meters               690          4,142        1,302
New Commercial Meters            200,           254,    est. 11
TOTAL                           1,5691        9,111



- 76 -
Annex 3.2
Page 1
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
LENDING ARRANGEMENTS, LEGAL DOCUMENTS AND
FLOW OF FUNDS
Seubsidir
Loa
Credit~ ~ ~ ~~~rei
AccounAccun
AgeemAre
......... .. .. ................ .... .......................A z.rig.
SuppliersG     & S
<    <                    RepublictS/Special
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fo Proec    \F  Ac                 un ds/
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~od A8emn                               Services



- 77 -
Annex 3.3
Page I
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION PLAN
I.     Significant Impacts on the Environment
No significant impacts are anticipated to result from the project. For the purpose of full
documentation and disclosure, the impacts which have been considered are described below and mitigation
measures for them are proposed:
A.    Potential Adverse Impacts
Implementation of cathodic protection systems, purchase of new equipment for maintenance and
operation, and installation of new and replacement meters are not expected to result in adverse impacts. The
origin and specifications for the new equipment will not be known until vendors are selected after competitive
bids are received. Pipeline replacement will result in short term construction related impacts. This would
include traffic circulation, air quality, odor, soil erosion, water quality, noise and public safety risks.
Traffic Circulation and Other Public Activities: There will be a potential temporary disruption of
traffic movement, consisting of delays due to increased traffic on local roads and detours due to excavation at
road intersections. Disruption of recreational activities may also occur, for example, if the pipe replacement
area coincides with a public park or recreation area, a school or another public use.
Air Quality: Construction activities will create dust during clearing and grading activities, during
trench digging and while moving soil. However, dust will result in only localized air quality impacts because
most of the particulate matter will settle out immediately downwind of the source. Localized dust emission
impacts can be mitigated by applying water sprays to the construction area. The exhausts from construction
vehicles will emit chemicals that are precursors to photochemical smog formation. These emissions will have
a more regional impact because of the long atmospheric reaction times to form smog. However, these
emissions will be very small when compared to other mobile and industrial source emissions of the region.
There, the impacts will not be significant. Old pipe segments will be purged of gas after new sections of
main are installed. Blowdowns release natural gas to the atmosphere. Because natural gas is lighter than air,
it will rise quickly, mix, and be diluted to a level at which it would not be a concern to human health.
Odor: Gas venting will result in odor at blowdown sites. Under certain climatic conditions, the
vented gas may drift in sufficient concentrations to be detected over a substantial distance. The duration of
detectability in these cases is usually from a few minutes to an hour. Odors can also be emitted from
exhausts on the diesel construction equipment. However, these impacts will only be localized and temporary,
usually occurring during vehicle acceleration.
Soil Erosion: In hilly areas, there would be a potential for increased soil erosion as a result of pipe
replacement activities.
Water Quality: Some of the pipe replacement locations may be in areas of rivers, streams and
reservoirs. If old degraded pipes are not removed and disposed of properly, this could result in degradation of
water quality. The release of hydrostatic test wastewater could also result in an impact on water quality.
Construction Noise: There will be a temporary increase in noise levels during construction. Trucks,
bulldozers and welding equipment will be required for grading, trenching, pipe laying and backfilling. These



- 78 -
Annex 3.3
Page 2
pieces of equipment produce noise levels of 70 - 95 dBA at a distance of about 15 meters. These noise levels
are not higher than ambient levels in urban locations in daytime, and therefore the temporary incremental
increase in noise levels is not considered to be significant. Gas venting usually take about an hour. Venting
is required at both ends of the replaced pipe section. Venting will take place occasionally over the term of the
pipe replacement program. Because the duration of the noise is only one hour, this is not considered to be a
significant impact. Nevertheless, mitigation measures are proposed to inform nearby residents and
commercial establishments of the time of venting in advance.
Public Safety Risks: The old pipes that will be removed will be purged of gas and then removed.
The pipes that are abandoned in place will be cut, capped and filled with inert nitrogen gas to eliminate future
risks. Therefore no potential for increased public safety risks is foreseen.
B.    Potential Beneficial Impacts
Reduced Methane Leak Potential: Replacement of deteriorated pipes, installation of cathodic
protection, and new testing equipment will substantially eliminate gas leaks and result in two impacts:
*      improved public safety through reduced risk of explosion due to undetected leaks;
a cumulative beneficial impact resulting from the reduced potential for release of methane to
the atmosphere, thus reducing the greenhouse effect. Since methane emissions produce a
greenhouse signal that is 20 to 50 times greater than carbon dioxide for equivalent
emissions, it is the second most significant greenhouse gas being emitted by man's activities.
Potentialfor Gas Conservation: The installation of upgraded and new metering, together with
proposed gas price reforms, is expected to promote more efficient use of gas by industrial and commercial
customers. This in turn will reduce the amount of gas consumption associated with given levels of output,
thereby providing a benefit in terms of reduced C02 and particulate emissions.
Substitution of Gas for Other Fuels: The combination of conservation and loss reduction resulting
from the project will, at least during periods of supply constraint and import curtailment, increase the amount
of gas available to consumers. The recent Survey of Living Conditions (November/December 1995) showed
that, in response to gas supply shortages, over 40 percent of the population were using fuelwood as their
primary fuel for heating and cooking - even though the gas network itself extends to 80 percent of the
country. Reducing fuelwood use by increasing the available gas supply will reduce deforestation, which is
reported to be occuring at a rapid rate.
II.    Mitigation Measures
Three types of mitigation measures are proposed: construction mitigation measures for pipe
replacement; enhancement of environmental management capability; and, public involvement during the
construction process.
A.    Construction Mitigation Measures for Pipe Replacement
Protection of Other Utilities: Prior to construction, the location of other utilities underground and
above ground in the vicinity of the pipe will be identified and any necessary permits from local authorities
obtained. During construction all the other utility steel structures will be protected. Each utility would
remain in full operation during construction. All ditches will be returned to their original condition or better.



- 79 -
Annex 3.3
Page 3
Construction Safety: Pertinent information on safety procedures will be disseminated to all levels of
personnel involved in the project. Safety hazards of concern include: dangerous machines with moving parts,
electricity, ergonomic factors such as physiological and psychological stresses on the human body, eye
protection, falls, fires and explosions, heat or cold stresses, moving and lifting equipment, noise, vibrations,
and combinations of several of these hazards which can exacerbate danger and injury.
Research of Pipelines: No excavation will be undertaken until detailed research on the existing
underground structures is completed by qualified pipeline engineers. All underground structures, their sizes,
locations, depths, material carried and ownership will be identified, in order to prevent damage from external
sources and damage from construction activities to existing underground facilities.
Pot Holing: Pot holing, or advance digging in the area to locate the position of underground
structures, will be performed carefully by hand if necessary when a pipeline is near. Pot holing will be used
whenever it is necessary to locate the position of underground structures.
Protection of Existing Draining Patterns: At stream or river crossings, pipeline will be buried at
least 3 meters under the scour line.
Erosion Control: In hilly areas where there is a potential for erosion, an erosion control plan will be
prepared to keep stripping of vegetation to a minimum, control the velocity and direction of the runoff,
protect slopes, stabilize soil, and reestablish native vegetation in natural areas.
Dust Control: The construction area would be sprayed with water to control dust.
Construction Noise: Prior to venting of gas, notice would be given to surrounding area residents and
commercial and industrial establishments. The approximate time for venting and the anticipated noise level
would be disclosed at that time. Insofar as possible, construction activities would take place only during the
daytime, and would conform to city noise ordinances and regulations as applicable.
Treatment of Removed Pipes: Old pipes that are removed would be purged of all gas. Pipes that are
abandoned in place would be cut, capped and filled with inert nitrogen gas to eliminate future risks.
Water Quality: Hydrostatic test water would be drawn from nearby sources, pressured in the pipe,
tested for contamination and discharged to an existing waterway.
Solid Waste: All solid waste generated at the construction site would be removed and deposited at an
approved solid waste disposal facility.
Construction Inspection: Inspectors would be designated by Azerigaz to perform regular
inspections of construction activities to ensure that contractors are following the proper procedures and that
they are taking precautions in conformance with local occupational health and safety provisions.
Fire Protection and Emergency Response: An Emergency Response Plan would be prepared for the
project prior to construction. The Environmental Coordinator within Azerigaz would be responsible for
preparing the plan, managing its implementation, and reviewing it as necessary. Proper safety and fire
fighting equipment would be provided at the construction sites and arrangements made in advance with
emergency response teams in the area. Personnel would be trained in the use of safety equipment and
periodic drills would be given in emergency procedures. Safety reminders would be issued to all staff
periodically, and visitors to construction sites would be briefed on potential hazards and necessary safety



- 80 -
Annex 3.3
Page 4
precautions. The Environmental Coordinator unit would also be responsible for informing the local
population about potential emergencies which could arise either during or subsequent to construction, and for
ensuring that they are familiar with appropriate responses to ensure their safety.
Continuation of Vehicular Circulation: Steps would be taken to minimize disruption of vehicular
circulation around the construction site. These would include detouring of traffic around the construction
area, directing traffic along one half of the roadway, and routing traffic over temporary trench bridging.
Detours would be properly signed, and personnel deployed to direct traffic if necessary.
Vehicular Safety during Construction: All laws dealing with vehicle safety would be adhered to to
avoid vehicular accidents as a result of added heavy traffic on the road. The construction area would be
appropriately signed to alert motorists and pedestrians. Temporary lighting and personnel would be deployed
to direct traffic if necessary to ensure safe movement in the construction areas.
Mitigation Monitoring: Monitoring of the implementation of mitigation measures would occur
before, during and after the pipe replacement has taken place. Monitoring would encompass all mitigation
measures required as conditions of the project to ensure that they have been properly executed. Monitoring
would be the responsibility of the Environmental Coordinator of the project.
B.    Enhancement of Environmental Management Capability
In order to ensure that the project mitigation plan is executed effectively, the environmental
management capability of Azenrgaz needs to be enhanced. A new position of Environmental Coordinator
should be established within the Project Implementation Unit. The position would include responsibility for
ensuring that the mitigation measures are carried out according to the technical details, descriptions and
operations procedures specified, that monitoring of mitigation and reporting procedures are carried out
properly, and that funds allocation for implementation of mitigation are used for their intended purpose.
C.    Public Involvement
Public involvement would be solicited as part of the project for the general public and enterprises
that would be affected by short term construction impacts of the project. The program would be planned to
inform the public about the purpose of the project, the short-term adverse impacts that may be anticipated,
the mitigation measures that will be undertaken, and the long term benefits of the project. The program
would begin prior to construction and continue until the completion of the construction period. The program
would include notices in the local press, distribution of hand-outs, and site tours in areas to be disturbed.
Citizen concems and suggestions for added mitigation measures would be incorporated in project procedures
as appropriate.
III.   Implementation and Cost of Mitigation Measures
A.    Implementation Responsibility
Implementation of the construction mitigation measures will be the responsibility of the engineering
contractor for the project, and subsequently of the construction contractor. Adherence to the mitigations will
be specified in bid documents for these contractors, and Azerigaz will assign inspectors for the duration of
the activity to ensure that they are carried out. The designation of an Environmental Coordinator should take
place at project inception.



- 81 -
Annex 3.3
Page 5
B.    Cost of Mitigation Measures
No additional costs are expected for construction mitigation measures because best engineering and
construction practices would incorporate all of the measures recommended above as part of the project cost.



- 82 -
Annex 4.1
Page I
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
PROCUREMENT ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION
(PEMS)
GENERAL BACKGROUND
1.     Azerigaz is a national gas company wholly owned by the Government of Azerbaijan. Its principal
activities include purchase of indigenous natural gas produced by SOCAR (State Oil Company of Azerbaijan
Republic); gas import, primarily from Turkmenistan; transmission of natural gas to domestic markets as well
as transit to other countries of the region; operation of two underground gas storage; and distribution of
natural gas to end users in Azerbaijan. Azerigaz is also in charge of transporting, bottling and distributing
LPG to end users. These activities which were previously conducted as part of a centralized ministry of the
FSU, have been vested to Azerigaz since 1992. The company employs approximately 16 000 people and is
managed as an autonomous entity.
2.     The Government of Azerbaijan (GOA) has applied for a credit from the International Development
Association, (IDA, a member of the World Bank Group) for the implementation of the proposed Gas System
Rehabilitation Project. Part of this loan would be used to finance the cost of this consultancy assignment.
3.     Azerigaz's transmission system includes some 5,000 km high pressure pipelines and 224 MW in-
stalled compressor capacity. It is capable of transporting the gas produced by SOCAR and also imports from
Turkmenistan and Iran. Currently, the gas transmission network receives gas from offshore Caspian fields,
from onshore fields and from underground storage. The transmission system delivers gas to approximately
120 points including underground storage sites, major industrial consumers, and city gate stations. It also has
the capability to transit gas to other countries; however, at present there is no re-export through Azerbaijan.
4.     Until April of 1995, gas was also imported from Turkmenistan and, occasionally, Iran, in order to
meet full domestic requirements. While these imports previously constituted approximately 30 percent of gas
supply, the Government has barred gas imports since April, 1995 owing to concerns over physical losses and
reluctance to incur further foreign debt. As a result, substantial areas of the country are not receiving gas at
the present time. While the Government and Azerigaz do not anticipate the resumption of gas imports in the
near future, they also regard the interruption in supply to outlying areas as a temporary condition which will
reverse as consumption is rationalized and as domestic supplies of gas increase.
5.     The gas received from SOCAR contains significant water and liquid hydrocarbons and is not of
pipeline quality. In fact only about one third of the gas produced offshore by SOCAR is processed in the
Karadag plant, which is in a poor state of repair and does not have any dehydration facilities. It is envisaged
that the necessary offshore compression and dehydration facilities would be installed by SOCAR to restore
the offshore gas fields production. Currently, a technical study is being conducted under a World Bank
funded technical assistance project to review and propose optimum gas processing plans for SOCAR.
6.     Azerigaz operates two underground gas storages in depleted fields, Karadag and Kalmas, both of
which need major rehabilitation due to obsolete and unsafe surface facilities. Further, Azerigaz has been
withdrawing from the cushion gas of these two structures to compensate for the gas supply to domestic
consumers. Rehabilitation of Karadag and Kalmas is being reviewed under a study funded by TACIS.
7.     The distribution system, with some 40,000 km of pipeline which supplies gas to over one million
consumers, is practically not metered. Although a large percentage of industrial customers are metered, their
meters are old and in a state of disrepair with very low accuracy. In the residential sector, only a few hundred
meters have been installed. This lack of gas measurement leads to large discrepancies between actual gas
consumptions and billed quantities.



- 83 -
Annex 4.1
Page 2
8.     The gas transmission system as well as the distribution system are practically under no cathodic
protection and are severely suffering from corrosion. Leak detection is assured by continuous monitoring of
pipelines. Network maintenance has been adversely affected by lack of financial resources to procure materi-
als and spare parts.
9.     Azerigaz's LPG Division receives LPG from plants operated by SOCAR, Azerigas and Azerchimia.
LPG is transported by rail to eight bottling plants operated by Azerigaz. Cylinders are filled in these plants
and delivered to end users by road trucks. The distribution system for LPG is also obsolete and is suffering
from lack of spare parts.
PROJECT BACKGROUND
10.    Against the above background, Azerigaz and the World Bank have initiated a gas system
rehabilitation project (GSRP). Sofregaz was retained as consultant to carry out a study of the investments
needed for rehabilitation of the gas transmission and distribution systems and to prioritize these investments.
Upon request, copies of the Sofregaz report would be provided to the consultants invited to bid for the
PEMS assignment. Based on the Sofregaz report, and as a result of discussions between the World Bank and
Azerigaz, the following components have been identified as critical to the rehabilitation of the transmission
and distribution systems in Azerbaijan, and for funding under the proposed GSRP:
Metering: The metering component would include: (a) rehabilitation of the city gate meter stations
throughout Azerbaijan by replacing the existing instrumentation or by replacing the entire meter at some
stations; (b) installing new meters at industrial and large commercial consumers who currently have no
meters; and (c) rehabilitating the metering at the industrial consumers who currently have meters by either
replacing the meters or replacing the measuring instrumentation. In addition, financing would be provided to
acquire related meter proving equipment and equipment packages to facilitate meter installation.
a.     City Gate Stations: Approximately 214 meter sets at the city gate stations would be
rehabilitated or replaced under the project. This includes all the city gate stations which are
currently in operation in Azerbaijan and those industries which are fed directly from the
main high pressure pipeline. This program would cover all of the locations where gas is
currently delivered from the main transmission pipelines.
b.     New and Replacement Meters: Approximately 465 industrial and large commercial
consumers are currently operating without metering and these would have meters installed.
Approximately 690 industrial and large non-industrial consumers are currently operating
with meters which are either not functioning or are obsolete and inaccurate. The larger
consumers would have instrumentation replaced and some consumers would also have the
meters replaced, where this is justified.
c.    Meter Proving Equipment: Meter proving equipment will also be purchased for each meter
type and housed in appropriately constructed facilities that would meet international
standards.
d.    Installation Equipment: This component would include three vehicles equipped with lifting
and welding equipment and necessary tools to modernize and facilitate installation of meter
sets.
Cathodic Protection System Rehabilitation: The cathodic protection (CP) of the pipeline system
throughout Azerbaijan is in poor condition and in need of rehabilitation, largely as a result of a lack of funds
for investment. The CP rehabilitation component would focus on the Apsheron peninsula and cover about



- 84 -
Annex 4. 1
Page 3
2,700 km of pipelines serving that area. The rehabilitation program would include electrically isolating the
pipelines into discrete sections, designing the detailed CP requirements for each section and then installing
the required CP for each section. A specialized consultant would assist Azerigaz in the initial isolation of two
sections, one on the transmission system and another one on the distribution network, carrying out the design
and training Azenrgaz to continue the work. In addition to the CP equipment, an allowance for approximately
900 tons of large diameter pipe has been included in the cost estimate. This would be used to replace
seriously corroded pipe which is discovered during implementation.
Analytical Equipment: This component consists of three sub-components: (a) gas quality test
equipment; (b) leak detection equipment; and (c) computer software and hardware to undertake network
modeling.
Technical Assistance: This includes modernization of office equipment including expansion of
computer application, and training in modem commercial business and management practices, as well as the
assistance in procurement, engineering, management and supervision which is the subject of these terms of
reference.
OBJECTIVES OF THE CONSULTANCY SERVICES
11.    The main objective of the consultancy assignment is to assist Azerigaz to provide a complete
engineering and management package for the proposed project components. In this regard, the Consultant
will work with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within Azerigaz, the core of which has been established
as a liaison unit during the Sofregaz consultancy. On assignment of the project, the Consultant will promptly
plan and render all necessary advice to the client for causing the project to be executed expeditiously and
economically in conformity with the highest industry practices and standards. The main general objective will
be the timely completion of the proposed project in an efficient manner, taking into account the local circum-
stances and conditions. A related objective of the consultancy is to assist Azerigaz in developing its capacity
to plan and implement future investment projects.
SCOPE OF THE CONSULTANCY ASSIGNMENT
12.    The consultancy assignment would be undertaken in two phases, with the execution of the second
phase dependent both on the approval of the IDA credit for the proposed project and on the consultants'
satisfactory completion of the first phase. The first phase of the assignment would be financed under a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) which would cover activities through to the point of credit effectiveness
(currently estimated as December 31, 1996).
Phase I
The objectives of the first (PPF) phase of the assignment will be to advance the procurement of
equipment to upgrade gas measurement capability at major City Gate Stations (CGS) in the Apsheron
Peninsula, to continue preparation of specifications and bidding documents for the remaining subcomponents
of the metering program, and to undertake minor items of procurement including the acquisition of leak
detection equipment and basic office equipment for the operation of the Project Implement Unit (PIU). It is
envisioned that this assignment will be undertaken by two or three specialists, operating on a short term basis
in Azerbaijan. Activities undertaken in this Phase are not expected to include any activities related to
mobilization for the second phase of the assignment. Specifically, the activities to be covered under Phase I
include the following:



- 85 -
Annex 4.1
Page 4
Meter Upgrading/Instrumentation at City Gate Stations
a)     Assist Azerigaz in finalizing their ongoing survey of the specific requirements in terms of
metering and instrumentation at the City Gate Stations (CGS) in the Apsheron Peninsula. The
consultant is expected to confirm the least cost solution for establishing reliable measurement at
these and any other CGS's, i.e., retrofitting of the existing orifice meters vs installation of new
meters.
b)     Finalize the design, technical specifications and quantities for the meter upgrading program
at these stations, based on the results of the above mentioned survey as well as necessary site visits.
c)     Assist Azerigaz in preparing bidding documents for the procurement of the initial package of
meters and regulators based on International Competitive Bidding (ICB), and assist them in initiating
the tendering for these items in accordance with the guidelines and requirements of World Bank/IDA
financed projects.
d)     Monitor the progress, and render such assistance as is necessary to Azerigaz in extending
their survey to include the remaining CGS's as well as major industrial and commercial customers
who are proposed for meter replacement/upgrading under the project.
Leak Detection Equipment
a)     Review the specifications and quantities for the proposed leak detection equipment. Finalize
technical specifications and bidding documents.
b)     Review the appropriateness of acquiring the equipment in a single or multiple packages,
based on an assessment of Azerigaz's need for the equipment and their ability to undertake a
comprehensive leak detection program. Based on the findings of this review, define the appropriate
quantities and assist Azerigaz in initiating procurement of these items.
Other
a)     Assist Azerigaz in identifying and packaging a basic complement of office and
communications equipment, for procurement under the PPF (estimated value, approximately
$75,000). Define the appropriate procurement methodologies (Local Shopping, International
Shopping) and, once IDA approval is obtained, assist Azerigaz in carrying out the procurement.
Phase II
Phase II of the assignment will extend from the time of credit effectiveness through to the completion
of the implementation of the project (1997 through 2000). During this phase, the Consultant is expected to
assist the Azerigaz PIU in all aspects of procurement, engineering, project management and supervision of
installation. The Consultant will provide the services of highly qualified and experienced personnel from his
own organization and from other organizations under his responsibility. The Consultant will carry out the
assignment by using the modem up-to-date techniques of gas industry, especially for natural gas transmission
and distribution. In addition, the consultant is expected to assist Azerigaz in developing its own capabilities
to design, manage and execute investment programs. The scope of the assistance is broadly defined below in
terms of specific engineering/procurement activities to be undertaken with regard to each of the project
components, and in terms of general activities related to project management, engineering, procurement,
implementation supervision and commissioning of the various project components. It is recognized, however,
that these are inter-dependent activities, and that the general activities will be carried out in the context of
undertaking the specific project components.



- 86 -
Annex 4.1
Page 5
Procurement, Engineering and Implementation Activities
Metering and Meter Proving Equipment:
a)     Assist Azerigaz in completing their ongoing survey of the specific requirements in terms of
metering and instrumentation at the City Gate Stations (CGS) and at major industrial and
commercial customers throughout the service area. The consultant is expected to confirm the least
cost solution for establishing reliable measurement at each of these installations.
b)     The Sofregaz design and specifications provide for factory assembled packages of meters
and regulators; the GSRP is based on the assembly of the meter and regulator sets in Azerbaijan in
accordance with the design to be provided by PEMS consultant. The PEMS consultant is required to
prepare a program for installation of units by Azerigaz under the consultant's supervision. The
consultant may include in the bidding necessary provision for assembly, installation and
commissioning of the first few units by the supplier in Azerbaijan for training of the Azerigaz staff.
c)    In conjunction with Azerigaz and the Azerbaijan State Standards Committee, specify the
equipment required to meet agreed procedures for regular testing and proving of the meters to be
acquired under the project, and define the arrangements necessary for the proper housing of this
equipment.
d)     Assist Azerigaz in the procurement of the remaining meters, meter proving equipment and
installation equipment.
e)     Review the existing contracts between Azerigaz and its customers/suppliers and propose
necessary modifications to bring them in line with industry norms and practices; or, alternatively
propose new model contracts. The consultant is required to provide Azerigaz with the
modifications/model contract both in Azeri language and English.. The modifications or model
contracts should establish clear obligations and procedure for security of the new metering and
regulating stations, their maintenance and treatment of measurement disputes between customers,
Azerigaz and the Azeri State Standard Organization.
f)     Review Azerigaz' program for installation of meters in the residential sector and assist in
introducing possible improvements.
Pipeline System Upgrade:
a)     Organize the cathodic protection program, possibly in phases as proposed by Sofregaz.
(i)    conduct a pilot project including survey and implementation of pipeline protection sys-
tem in limited areas of the transmission and distribution systems;
(ii)   organize on-the-job training as well as seminars/programs for Azerigaz staff to
introduce modern techniques for cathodic protection assessment and installation of pipeline
protection devices such as isolation joints and rectifiers; and
(iii)   set-up a complete program for the survey of the entire transmission and distribution
systems followed up by implementation of a corrosion protection program.
b)     Prepare bid documents for procurement of necessary equipment and materials for
implementation of this program which would include installation of insulating joints, rectifiers,
anodes, etc.



- 87 -
Annex 4.1
Page 6
c)     Review the proposed quantity and specifications for emergency pipes, prepare bid
documents and assist Azerigaz in procurement
Gas Quality Analysis Facilities and Network Modeling
a)     Review the list of analytical equipment proposed for financing under the project. Finalize
technical specifications and bidding documents, and assist Azerigaz in initiating procurement of
these items.
b)     Prepare necessary design for establishment of the gas quality control facilities.
c)     Assist in the design and supervise the fitting-up of the premises that will host the analytical
equipment as well as the installation and commissioning of the gas quality equipment which would
include pressure gauge calibration, gas choromatograph, hydrogen sulphide analyzer, sulphur
/mercaptan analyzer, water dew point analyzer, hydrocarbon dew point analyzer, analyzer calibration
device, and computer for sorting and reporting data.
d)     Review the list of computer hardware and software proposed to establish an appropriate
network modeling capability within Azerigaz. Finalize technical specifications and bidding
documents, and assist Azerigaz in initiating procurement of these items.
Office Equipment and Training
a)     Assist Azerigaz in finalizing the most efficient mix and functional allocation of office and
communications equipment (excluding that which is to be used by the PIU), within the overall
objective of strengthening the general commercial management and planning capabilities of the
organization.
b)     Define an appropriate training program(s) for senior and middle management of the
company, with a view to enhancing their ability to operate the company in a commercially viable
manner. Assist in contracting with suitable agencies for the provision of this training.
General
a)     Advise on the existing rights-of-way, easements and land purchases (if any) as required by
the project schedule.
b)     Assist in the preparation of an environmental impact statement and environmental mitigation
plan, as may be required by the local authorities and by the guidelines of the World Bank for projects
of this nature.
Project Management
13.    The Consultant will review all existing studies, data, design and will acquire the additional data
necessary for the execution of his assignment. Of special importance would be full familiarization with the
World Bank Staff Appraisal Report particularly with the chapters dealing with project scope, cost and
procurement. He will further define the project and establish the criteria for its design and construction. He
will assist Azerigaz to prepare the Project Master Plan (critical path method, CPM) and a project cost
estimate, which should be based on sufficient engineering to be conducted by the consultant. All of these
should be continuously updated during the project implementation. The Consultant will assist PIU to
establish a modem project management system in order to optimize costs, manpower and scheduling.



- 88 -
Annex 4.1
Page 7
14.    The Consultant will assist Azerigaz to establish an efficient project organization covering the
activities envisaged for project components. The Consultant may render such management functions that
may be mutually agreed upon, namely act at all times and in all situations to the best interest of the client.
Generally he will:
a)     Provide the necessary progress reports, budgetary monitoring and establishing control and
information systems to keep the Manager and the team members adequately informed on progress,
problems and development;
b)     Assist Azerigaz in establishing financial accounts, documentation and financial control
procedures for the proposed project in accordance with international accounting standards and best
practices;
c)     Assist Azerigaz in meeting the financial reporting requirements associated with the
implementation of Bank projects, including periodic reports of actual and estimated expenditures,
and annual financial statements for the project. Assist in the engagement of qualified independent
auditors to carry out an annual review of the project accounts, statements of expenditure and Special
Account;
d)     Establish communication procedures and systems as well as providing information systems
eg. computers that are necessary for the functioning of the PIU and maintenance of liaison between
the client and other concerned parties;
e)     Advise on insurance coverage, advise on timely compliance with government and local
regulatory laws and licensing requirements;
f)     Assist Azerigaz in establishing an efficient working procedure for its PIU, provide on the job
training for its staff and improve its organizational structure.
Engineering Design
15.    The Consultant will prepare/enhance the basic engineering, lists of materials and additional
engineering as may be required for the preparation of tender documents and investment cost estimates. He
will be responsible for the timely preparation and all necessary advice for successful implementation of all
engineering design of the project. The engineering design will include necessary measures for the successful
construction and commissioning of the project. These will include:
a)     Preliminary activities such as data acquisition and system evaluation.
b)     Preparation of the list of materials and equipment, including their specifications in ac-
cordance with pertinent intenational/domestic codes and standards.
c)     Preparation of the technical specification to be incorporated in the tender docunents for
procurement of materials and services.
d)     Detailed cost estimates and expenditure schedules.
e)     Construction, commissioning and start-up.



- 89 -
Annex 4.1
Page 8
Procurement
16.    The Consultant will assist Azerigaz in all phases of procurement in accordance with the World Bank
Procurement Guidelines and the local procurement rules and regulations, depending on the sources of funding
for each procurement package. This will include:
a)     Assistance in finalizing the quantities, technical specifications, the most suitable
procurement methods, including packaging and phasing, potential suppliers (both local and abroad),
and estimated costs at current market prices of materials and equipment requirements of the GSRP;
and prepare a procurement schedule including bid document preparation, bid evaluation, contract
award, and receipt and commissioning;
b)     Review of Azerigaz' procurement practices, including the role of local end users and
national supervising authorities in various phases of procurement and their effects on the speed of
procurement; and estimate the average duration of various stages of procurement;
c)     Training of Azerigaz' staff who will be involved in project procurement in international
commercial practices as applied in the natural gas industry and the World Bank procurement
guidelines and assist them in bid collection and evaluation.
Construction Supervision
17.    The Consultant in conjunction with the PIU will be responsible for the supervision of all construction
activities and field services. His responsibilities will include:
a)     Advice on establishment of the necessary organization and physical facilities to enable the
proper supervision of the project implementation.
b)     Supervise and co-ordinate all work progress by the client, suppliers/contractors and other
concerned agencies with reference to the critical path, so as to notify/advise/warn the respective
bodies in case of delays/impending delays.
c)     Establishing and performing all required inspection, testing and other quality control pro-
cedures and measures.
d)     Maintaining the necessary records, progress reports and other management information
system.
e)     Maintaining "as built" records, contractual variations and change orders and negotiating
settlements for changes.
f)     Assist in reviewing and certifying invoices.
g)     Assist in the preparation of the tender documents, and evaluation of tenders for specific
activities associated with construction/installation.
Commissioning
18.    The Consultant will assist in supervising the commissioning of the new facilities for the first three
months (or any such other period that the client might wish to negotiate at a later date with the contractors) of
operations. This responsibility will include:



- 90 -
Annex 4.1
Page 9
a)     Ensure the preparation and assembly of all necessary operating and maintenance procedures
and instructions, including preparation of operating manuals for the modernized installations.
b)     Organize a specialized team to start-up the facilities with the full participation of Azerigaz's
operating staff
c)     Designate and organize the operating and maintenance team to assist Azerigaz's staff in
operating the new facilities, for the first three months.
d)     Provide on-the-job training and familiarize Azerigaz's staff with the operating manuals.
TIMING
19.    The Consultant's proposal must be received within 45 days from the bid issuance date. The time
assigned for this plus bid evaluation, contract negotiation and consultant mobilization is estimated at about 3
months, followed by project implementation to take place over the period of 1997 - 2000.
ASSISTANCE TO BE PROVIDED BY AZERIGAZ
20.    Azerigaz, through the PIU Manager, will provide the following services to the Consultant:
a)     Suitable office space within the Azerigaz premises, sufficient to accommodate both the
consultant team, the PIU staff, support staff and project files and equipment.
b)     The services of qualified staff to carrv out the envisioned work program under the general
guidance of the Consultant.
c)     Administrative assistance in obtaining visa, custom clearances and any other administrative
permits required by the Consultant in the performance of his assignment.
d)     Existing data, maps, surveys and studies.
e)     Liaison with governmental and local bodies.
f)     Any other assistance not readily available which the consultant may reasonably request.
REPORTING
21.    The Consultant will report to Azerigaz, who has assigned the PIU and its manager to supervise the
activities of the consultant. At the same time, the PIU and its manager will facilitate the performance of the
Consultant's assignment. A coordinating committee will be established by Azerigaz. The representatives of
other Azerbaijan agencies, such as Azeri State Standard, SOCAR or the World Bank would be invited to join
this committee whenever required. The committee would meet on a regular basis and/or as to be invited by
PIU.
22.    The Consultant will closely cooperate with Azerigaz's representatives in charge of the PIU, who will
render the necessary assistance to the Consultant in carrying out his assignment. The Consultant will provide
the PIU with all the necessary advice, including but not necessarily limited to the items in this TOR, for a suc-
cessful implementation of the project. It is understood that the PIU Manager will give/receive and the
Consultant will promptly provide all such advice in time; and also, in order to enable the Consultant to be



- 91 -
Annex 4. 1
Page 10
held responsible for the assignment, the Manager will normally act upon the advice on time. Generally, the
Consultant will keep the Manager continuously informed upon progress of the work, particularly with refer-
ence to problems that could cause delays or technical and financial difficulties.
23.    The Consultant is required to submit to PIU Manager the following reports in 10 copies both in
Russian and English:
a)    Monthly report by the I 0th of each month, summarizing the activities of the previous month,
cost vs budget, any issues and recommendations; two copies of this report will be directly sent to the
World Bank for review and comments.
b)    Design, specifications and cost estimates for the metering and regulating stations.
c)    Diagnostic report following the cathodic protection assessment, implementation of the pilot
project as well as cost estimate and implementation program for pipeline system upgrade.
d)    Design, specifications and cost estimate for the quality control laboratory including the
equipment.
e)    Proposed training program and operation and maintenance manuals.
f)    Commissioning reports.
g)    The final report summarizing the project design, final cost, reference list of all drawings and
any lessons to be learned from the project implementation.



Azerbaijan Republic
Gas System Rehabiltaton Project
Project Implemntaton Schedule
1996              1997              1998               1999             2000
CQtrl OQlr2 Otr3. OQb4 Ctrl I0tr2 Qtr3 OQtr4 Otrl OQlr2 IQtr3 tr4 t1 1 Otr2 IQtr3 rQtr41Qr IIQtr2 Qtr3
_______                                                i6i|               1 _t~tr& __       ~&                                   __ _   ___ 
_____________Boen Presentation                                   ___
Credit Efiectiveness
-                  bAsa nts(PES Consubet)                                         _                                                                   _
Prop of Invitation Package (TOR, LOI. etc.)    = -      |-
___________Bid lsmg
Proposals Received and Evaluated      __  __    =
_________ Bank Review
Contac Negotation                     __            -                                          __                          __  _____
____ ___ ____ ___Consultant in  Piae"
Procd, Enging. Mangrnt & Supem.                       _            -
Customw and CGS Su rvey
Cky|G_____or_ |Survey and Gas Sales Contract Amnmends.                                                       = _ __ _ __   -          -  _
r_____________ |Design and Specificatons and procurement           =      -                 - -               =  t    -_=
First CGS Padcage Received_L
Instaitation                                                              -       -- 
Seond CGS Packag Recemivd
Instaflation-                                                                                   - - --                      -
rInduarlall Mewr Seft   =___ _=___ ____                                                                                                           _      _
IDesign and S         and Procurerent         _   _ _                         - I _ _
__________________    LPadu ge   I   Received        ___                        __________      ___      ___       ___   ___  ____  ______P c
____________ Packag 2 Received__
_____________ Package 3 Received
LPadwge 4 Received
lnsftNation
Catodic Protection
Survey
Impiemntation
Training
RohabWlteton
,Survey
_____________I Procuremnent
Ilnstmabton
Annex 4.2
Pagc I



- 93 -
\\;ii 4 | XI   I                12~i
,~~~~~~~i    i  111LI    iil111
i -  :  i(    I    H , 1ix 



Annex 4.3
Page 1
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITITATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN AND SCHEDULE
Description of Project Elements    Total    Foreign   Financing   Procure.    No. of        Bid      Timetable   Completion
Costs*    Costs*     Source      Method    Packages    Issue      Contract        Date
l_____     _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _                      A w ard
CGS Meter Instrumentation            2.90      2.44      IDA         ICBa/        2        Oct. 96      Mar. 97        Jun. 99
Industrial/Conunercial Meters       10.24       9.01     IDA         ICB          4         Jul. 97      Dec. 97       Jun. 00
Isolating Joints                     3.38       2.62     IDA         ICB          2        Feb. 97       Apr. 97       Dec. 99
CP Stations                          0.50       0.39     IDA         ICB          I        Dec. 97      May 98         Dec. 99
Steel Pipes                          1.20       0.93     IDA         ICB          1        Nov. 97       Apr. 98       Dec. 99
Leak Detection Equipment             0.66       0.50     IDA         LIBa/        I        Oct. 96       Feb. 97       Jun. 97
Gas Quality Equipment                0.36       0.27     IDA         LIB          I         Jan. 98      Jun. 98       Jun. 99
Network Modeling                     0.49       0.38     IDA         LIB          I        Sept. 97      Jan. 98       Jun. 98
Meter Proving Equipment              0.60       0.42     IDA         LIB          I         Jan. 98      May 98        Dec. 98
Meter Installation Equipment         0.20       0.20     IDA         LIB          I        Oct. 96       Feb. 97       Jun. 97
PEMS                                 2.87       2.02     IDA         SL'/         I        June 96      Sept. 96       Jun. 00
Corporatization Support              0.57       0.49     IDA          SL          I         Jun. 97     Nov. 99        Dec. 98
Office Equipment                     0.31       0.31     IDA          isa/        I         Jan. 97      May 97         Jul. 97
Training                             0.29       0.25.    IDA          SL          I        Feb. 97       Jun. 97       Dec. 99
Totals                              24.57     20.21                               19
* (US$ million), Costs include contingencies
a/ International Competitive Bidding (ICB), Limited International Bidding (LIB), and International Shopping (IS) under IDA financing to take place in accordance
with the World Bank Guidelines (January 1995, and revised January 1996).
b/ Procurement of consultants under short-listing procedures in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for the use of consultants (August 1981).



- 95 -
Annex 4.4
Page 1
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS
Monitorable Targets
1997    1998    1999   2000
Metering Instaled (cumulative)
- City Gate Meters                            20      100     200    214
- Industrial Meters                          100     600    1200    1355
Cathodic Protection (percent)
- Pilot program                              100
- Main system (percent rehabilitated)         10       15      25      35
Leak Detection (percent)                       80     100
Network Modelling (percent)                    80     100
Gas Analysis (percent)                         80     100
New Computers Installed (cumulative)           30      50       50      50
Technical and Non-Technical Losses             15    12.5       10     8.5
(percent of purchases)
Collections Rate (percent of invoice value of  75      90       90      90
shipments)
Energy Efficiency Improvements
- Industrial Gas Consumption/Industrial         .    -2%   -3.5%      -5%
Output (MCM/$1,000)
- Total Gas Consumption/GDP                          -1%      -2%     -4%
(MCM/$1,000)



- 96 -
Annex 4.5
Page 1
AZERBAUIAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROPOSED SUPERVISION PROGRAM
Approximate                       Activities                      Expected Skills     Manweeks
Dates                                                             R qired        _______
August 1996       Project Launch
- Recruit Consultants                        Task Manager                      2
- Prepare tender documents                   Gas Engineer                      2
- Review customer survey                     Financial Analyst                 2
- Review 1996 Financial budgets              Procurement                       2
December 1996    Bid Document Review
- Review Bid Documents                       Task Manager                      2
- Review Test Equipment                      Gas Engineering                   2
- Review Metering                            Financial Analysis                2
- Review Financial Procedures                Procurement                       2
April 1997        Bid Evaluation
- Review Bid Documents                       Task Manager                      2
- Review Test Equipment                      Gas Engineering                   2
- Review Metering                            Financial Analysis                2
- Review Financial Statements                 Procurement                      2
July 1997         Year 1 Review
- Review Bid Evaluations                     Task Manager                      2
- Review Implementation Logistics            Gas Engineering                   2
- Review Metering & CP                       Financial Analysis                2
- Review Financial Statements & Audit Report    Procurement                    2
October 1997      Bid Document Review
- Review Bid Documents                       Task Manager                      2
- Review Cathodic Protection                 Gas Engineering                   2
- Review Metering                            Financial Analysis                2
- Reviw Einanial Statmentsq                  Prourement                        2



- 97 -
Annex 4.5
Page 2
CY98 - 00                                                                                               l
March              - Review Bid Evaluations                       Task Manager                       2
- Review Implementation Logistics              Gas Engineering                   2
- Review Financial Statements                  Financial Analysis                2
Procurement                       2
October
- Review Bid Evaluations                       Task Manager                      2
- Review Implementation Logistics              Gas Engineering                   2
- Review Financial Statements                  Financial Analysis                2
l______________    .__________________________________         __  2Procurem ent



- 98 -
Annex 5.1
Page I
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN
Assumptions
1.    Financial internal rates of return were calculated for the project as a whole and for each of
the investment components. Capital costs and investment cash flows were based on the total cost
estimate and implementation schedule discussed in Annexes 3.1 and 4.2, excluding physical and
price contingencies. For purposes of the analysis, investments in cathodic protection and testing
equipment were combined under the heading of "asset preservation".
2.    Assumptions regarding the impacts of each of the project components (including both
incremental costs and benefits) are summarized in Table 1. Savings in gas losses were valued at
the price of gas imports from Turkmenistan, on the premise that imports represent the marginal
source of supply. In the absence of a long-term take-or-pay purchase contract with
Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan should be able to limit imports on a year-round basis. Even if domestic
gas supply exceeds demand during the summer period, surplus can be injected into storage to
reduce the need for winter imports. Costs associated with lost margins as a result of customer
responses to more accurate metering (and hence higher gas bills) were valued at the margin
between the current selling price and the cost of imported gas. In the case of industrial metering,
the lost margins were based on industrial tariffs. For city gate instrumentation, where the
conservation impact will be spread over a broader range of customer classes, the difference
between the weighted average selling price and the cost of imports was used to value lost
margins. In this instance, however, because residential and communal prices are both below the
import cost, the weighted average margins are negative.
3.    All impacts were measured over a 20 year life, from 2001 when the project is fully
implemented through 2020. Both FIRR's and NPV's were calculated, the latter based on a
financial opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent. The opportunity cost used is equivalent to the
current short term, foreign currency lending rate. Because the capital markets in Azerbaijan are
shallow and poorly developed, longer term money is not available. Income taxes of 35 percent
were applied to net incremental income.
Summary of Findings
4.    Tables 3 through 7 show the detailed cash flow statements and results for the base case
analysis. The results are summarized in Table 2.



- 99 -
Annex 5.1
Page 2
Table I
Financial Impacts - Summary of Assumptions
Component              Impact                         Extent of Impact               Unit Value
Asset Preservation     Reduced pipe replacement needs   Annual replacement needs for  $273,000/km
on protected sections          2,600 km section decline from
5% to 2.5% over 15 years
Savings in electricity costs   20% saving on 300 MW of        $0.04/kWh
capacity
Reduced leakage                Losses drop from 5% to 4% on    $43.00/MCM
throughput of 2 BCM/yr
Incremental O&M costs                                         $1 00,000/yr
New Industrial Meters   Reduced non-technical losses  Losses decline from 10% to 0%  $43.00/MCM
on throughput of 424 million
m3/yr
Reduced margins due to         Conservation impact equivalent   $10.33/MCM
conservation effects          to 15% of current consumption
Incremental O&M costs                                         3% of capital
cost
Replacement Industrial   Reduced non-technical losses  Losses decline from 8% to 0% on  $43.00/MCM
Meters                                                throughput of 1,302 million
m3/yr
Reduced margins due to         Conservation impact equivalent   $10.33/MCM
conservation impacts          to 3% of current consumption
City-Gate              Reduced non-technical losses   Losses decline from 10% to 8%  $43/MCM
Instrumentation                                       on throughput of 6 BCM/yr
Reduced margins due to         Conservation impact equivalent   ($1 9.84)/MCM
l____________________  conservation impacts           to 1.5% of current consumption    _



- 100 -
Annex 5.1
Page 3
Table 2
Summary of Financial Returns
Component                                FIRR         NPV @ 12%
l ______________________________                        (S     m illions)
Asset Preservation                         46.3%            $32.8
New Industrial Meters                      33.6%             $3.2
Replacement Industrial Meters              70.9%            $13.5
City-Gate Instrumentation                 108.9%            $14.8
Total Project                              51.6%            $62.9



TO 3
- - p--
Ama ftmwvmt
CA     Cod -                  62  _m  LtSS
Cauu    Cos P-U
Yw 1        0.0%
Yw 2       361%
Y_m'3      30.1%
Y_W4       22.5%
Yw5        11.3%                 100.0%
Lung d P       AbddA        2,O60  be
ULM Vja dAinh           S 273,000 p.r bn
AmL4 Pk. Rapadamwi   W I                      Wh
- udprod                     5.0% per yw            3.0% in 5 y               2.5% in 15 ya
Erimby C       _mayO-   S 315.30D          0 S       0.04 per kW%i
Elmhity Sa-i s          S  63.072         20%
a   ma" i ofOM         S 100,ODW  per yw
hku9wvbs                      1966
LOA LO""                      5.0% VMtoLi            4.0% WiMh
Tow T      lU~              2,000 mUn m3    S    43.00 per MCM
hame Tax Rob                  35%
lPrent V_ @a12%              532.8
FRR                      46.3%
harnatd Rapicn-r Repitni' R              _pmo rw   Net Savig    Ebdridiy   Lgd Losa  Incramn(W   NetCah                                       F-
CUa tSS       OUA      No Poed  WYh Pret WWh Pet in R              _piwnert  Savkgs   Re&xUbn    ha        Flow 
Yew      (S miow)   (S mi-)  (S mm-)    (yr)   (S mrias)   (S mria)   (S mniibn)  (S mrians)    Tax    (S mUom)                                                   H
1966           -                  (35.5)      5.0%       (35.5)            -
1997        (2.2)                 (35.5)      50%        (35.5)            -         -                   0.1        (2.2)
1998        (1.9)         -       (35.5)      5.0%       (35.5)                       -         -        0.2       (1.7)
1999        (1.4)                 (355) 5q0%             (35.5)            -          -                  0.2       (1.2)
2000        (0.7)                 (35.5)       5.0%       (35.5)           -          -                   0.2      (0.5)
2001                   (0.1)      (35.5)      4.6%        (32.7)         2.8       0.06        0.9       (1.0)      2.6
2002                   (0.1)      (35.5)      4.2%       (29.8)          5.7       0.06        0.9      (2.0)       4.5
20D3                    (0.1)     (35.5)      3.8%        (27.0)         8.5       0.08        0.9       (3.0)      6.3
2004                   (0.1)      (35.5)      34%        (24.1)         11.4       0.06        0.9      (4.0)       8.2
2005                   (0.1)      (355)       3.0%        (21.3)        14.2       0.06        0.9       (5.0)      10.0
2006                   (0.1)      (35.5)      3.0%        (20.9)        14.6       0.06        0.9       (5.1)      10.2
2007                   (0.1)      (35.5)      2.9%        (20.6)        14.9       0.06        0.9       (5.3)      10.5
2006                   (0.1)      (35.5)      29%         (20.2)        15.3       0.06        0.9       (5.4)      10.7
2009                   (0.1)      (35.5)      2.8%        (19.9)        15.6       0.06        0.9       (5.5)      10.9
2010                   (0.1)      (35.6)      2.8%        (19.5)        16.0       0.06        0.9       (5.6)      11.2
2011                   (0.1)      (35.5)      2.7%        (19.2)        16.3       0.06        0.9       (5.8)      11.4
2012                   (0.1)      (35.5)      2.7%        (18.8)        16.7       0.06        0.9       (5.9)      11.6
2013                   (0.1)      (35.5)      2.6%        (16.5)        17.0       0.06        0.9       (6.0)      11.8
2014                   (0.1)      (35.5)      2.6%        (18.1)        17.4       0.05        0.9       (6.1)      12.1
2015                   (0.1)      (35.5)      2.5%        (17.7)        17.7       0.08        0.9       (6.3)      12.3
2016                   (0.1)      (35.5)      2.5%        (17.7)        17.7       0.06        0.9       (6.3)      12.3
2017                   (0.1)      (35.5)      2.5%        (17.7)        17.7       0.06        0.9       (6.3)      12.3
2018                   (0.1)      (35.5)      2.5%        (17.7)        17.7       0.06        0.9       (6.3)      12.3
2019                   (0.1)      (35.5)      2.5%        (17.7)        17.7       0.06        0.9       (6.3)      12.3                                  CD  tA
2t0                     (0.1)     (35.5)      2.5%        (17.7)        17.7       0.06        0.9       (6.3)      12.3                                  -.  _



- 102 -
Annex 5.1
Page 5
-'rooecoooooo---------.
C-
mo.4
W- ^-       .    .    .    .    .    .    . -   -      .  - .   -. -. -. -. -. .-. .-
8~~~ ~         O-
Cw !        O  eo oo  o  ooa  o   o
*9*9*9                            ggg;;~t)            4 
- 2      - - - o   -   -     - - - CW NNe- N-NNN
c-~~~~~~~c.
j_ "  r
jIi      I        - ,;NNNN                0 e    N N' N N~ N N N Na 
6 C
11111                                   :g,^ 0  D  



Tab S
b  bW    - Nh m
C_ad Cad -                      4.      OUSS
CAm  Cad PmU
Yw     0.0%
Yw 2        1.1%
Y_ S       362%
Yw 4       31-.3
Yew 5      23%                               1CO.O%
C0sTad AInd Sdm         mUon m3          1,302
Non-Tedmiad Lu_          pI                80%        0.0%
C_ wIm  ki paS           p                0.0%        .0%
Cs od Pdma                          $    4300 per MCM
V&ddaS                              S  5333 pw MCM
TaMu   i                            S    10.33 peMCH
kown Tm Rd.                    35%
NoPr..uiVdm@12%               S13S
FMRR                      70.9%
Cqpd    ULktUd U..    Sd.          MOW    Uribad Us       Sd..       Mwgk    Net Change Ndt Chngs  kwnentl Irncmwesntl   Nd Cah
Cost     No Pric.   No Psd    No P.d  wm Pi@d vW  P               Yth Pr.d  j d Use  hi Mmhi            01        him.m        Fbw                                    O
Yew      t(*dU-)   (rlons)   (8dl's)   (SmEr.)  (Smllion)   (bulions)  (Smi)   (Smir.)  (SmE-)   (Smillns)                      Tax       (mEns)
1906           -        (4.5)       69.4       134        (4.5)       69.4        13.4        0.0                                 -
1997        (0.1)       (4.3)       66.6       12.9       (4.3)       66.6        12.9        0.0          -           -        0.0        (0.1)
19S8        (1.9)       (4.1)       63.9       12.4       (4.1)       63.9        12.4        0.0        0.0           -        0.1        (1.8)
1990        (1.5)       (4.0)       61.3       11.9       (2.4)       63.2        12.2        1.6        0.4           -        (0.6)      (0.1)
2000        (1.4)       (4.0)       61.9       12.0       (1.1)       64.6        12.5        2.9        0.5           -        (1.0)       1.0
2001                    (4.0)       62.5       12.1          -        66.0        12.8        4.0        0.7           -        (1.5)       3.3
2002                    (4.1)       63.1       12.2          -        66.2        12.8        4.1        0.6           -        (1.4)       3.2
2003                    (4.1)       63.8       12.4          -        66.8        12.9        4.1        0.6           -        (1.5)       3.2
2004                    (4.2)       64.4       12.5          -        67.5        13.1        4.2        0.6           -        (1.5)       3.3
2005                    (4.2)       65.0       12.6          -        68.1        13.2        4.2        0.6           -        (1.5)       3.3
2006                    (4.2)       65.7       127           -        66.8        13.3        4.2        0.6           -        (1.5)       3.3
2007                    (4.3)       66.3       12.9                   69.5        13.5        4.3        0.6                    (1.5)       3.4
2008                    (4.3)       67.0       13.0          -        70.2        13.6         4.3       0.6           -        (1.5)       3.4
2009                    (4.4)       67.7       13.1          -         70.9       13.7         4.4       0.6           -        (1.6)       3.4
2010                    (4.4)       88.4       13.2          -        71.6        13.9         4.4       0.6           -        (1.6)       3.5
2011                    (4.5)       69.0       13.4          -        72.3        14.0        4.5        0.6           -        (1.6)       3.5
2012                    (4.5)       69.7       13.5          -        73.1        14.2         4.5       0.6           -        (1.6)       3.5
2013                    (4.5)       70.4       13.6                   73.8        14.3        4.5        0.6           -        (1.6)       3.6
2014                    (4.6)       71.2       13.8          -        74.5        14.4        4.6        0.7           -        (1.7)       3.6
2015                    (4.6)       71.9       13.9       (0.0)       75.3        14.6         4.6       0.7           -        (1.7)       3.6
2016                    (4.7)       72.6       14.1        (0.0)      76.1        14.7        4.7        0.7           -        (1.7)       3.7
2017                    (4.7)       73.3       14.2          -        76.8        14.9        4.7        0.7           -        (1.7)       3.7                        A
2018                    (4.8)       74.1       14.3        0.0        77.6        15.0         4.8       0.7           -        (1.7)       3.7                          CD
2019                    (4.8)       74.8       14.5          -        78.4        15.2         4.8       0.7                   (1 7)        3.8                        (D  qjk
2020                    (4.9)       75.6       14.6          -        79.2        15.3        4.9        0.7           -        (1.8)       3.8                             -



Tames
-D (jb            -1   - .
CI Cad. -                       23  _r   USn
C      auo Cod Pmcg
Yewl I       .0%
Yw 2       35.2%
Yw 3    318%
Y_ 4       31.0S
Y_S         QOS%                             10D0%
Cuffct Amun SimM        mom MiS          6.071
Ion-TcIuc l_.            p$                10%        I0%
C       _ harvilan       I                  0%        1.5%
COi d Purtt_                        S    4300 pWMCM
VmndSn                              S  2.16 prMCM
Teim   _                             S   (19.84) pw MCMA
av. Tm. 1m                     35%
NiPnmwVim.12%                 814.8
C        Ubi*Ud W.    Si lmjs                 9 r b Use    SW"        Mwgn'    Not Chwp  Not Chang   howm tu ol,mm l4i   Not C_h
Cowi      No P.      No Pp*d   No Po*d   WM  Praje   V   Pi        WM Prajad UL*bd U_   in Mh rgi       OWA       1nm          Fb1w
Yew      ($mSm)    (Oi)   (Mar)   (SmE )   (b.61mw)   (S.61mm)                    (SmE     (m     )   (SmVi-)   (SmWhocn)       Tax       (milc)                                   O
199I                   (28.1)      140.6    (120.4)       (26.1)      140.6    (120.4)         0.0                                 -
1997         (0.8)      (25.8)     138.9    (1189)        (25.8)      138.9    (118.9)         0.0          -          -         0.0       (0.8)
1998         (0.8)      (25.5)     137.2    (117.5)       (23.7)      138.2     (11.3)         1.8       (0.8)         -        (0.3)       (0.1)
1999         (0.7)      (25.5)     137.6    (117.9)       (22.0)      138.8     (1188)         3.5       (1.0)                  (0.8)       1.0
2000            -       (25.6)      138.0    (118.2)      (20.5)      139.3    (119.3)         5.1       (1.1)                  (1.3)        2.7
2001                    (25.7)      138.4    (1185)       (20.6)      139.0    (119.1)         5.1       (0.6)         -         (1.5)       3.1
2002                   (25.8)       138.8    (11&9)       (20.6)      1395      (119.4)        5.2       (0.6)                  (1.5)        3.1
2003                   (25.8)       139.2    (119.2)      (20.7)      139.9     (119.8)        5.2       (0.6)         -        (1.5)        3.1
2004                   (25.9)       139.6    (119.6)      (20.7)      140.3    (120.1)         5.2       (0.6)         -        (1.5)       3.1
2005                   (230)        140.0     (119.9)     (20.8)      140.7    (120.5)         5.2       (0.6)         -        (1.5)       3.1
2X6                     (26.1)      140.4    (120.3)      (20.9)      141.1     (120.9)        5.2       (0.6)         -         (1.5)      3.1
2C07                    (262)       140.9    (120.7)      (20.9)      141.5    (121.2)         5.2       (0.6)                  (1.5)        3.1
2008                   (26.2)       141.3    (121.0)      (21.0)      14ZO      (121.6)        5.2       (0.6)                  (1.5)       3.1
20DO                   (26.3)       141.7    (121.4)      (21.0)      142.4    (122.0)         5.3       (0.6)         -         (1.6)       3.1
2010                   (28.4)       142.2     (121.8)     (21.1)      142.8     (122.3)        5.3       (0.6)         -        (1.6)        3.1
2D11                   (27)         143.6    (123.0)      (21.3)      144.3    (123.6)         5.3       (0.6)         -        (1.6)        3.2
2012                   (28.9)       146.0    (124.2)      (21.5)      145.7     (124.8)        5.4       (0.6)          -        (1.6)       3.2
2013                   (27.2)       146.5    (125.5)      (21.8)      147.2     (128.1)        5.4       (0.6)                  (1.6)        3.2
2014                   (27.5)       148.0    (126.7)      (22.0)      148.7     (127.3)        5.5       (0.6)          -        (1.6)       3.3
2015                   (27.8)       149.5     (128.0)     (22.2)      150.2    (128.6)         5.6       (0.6)                  (1.6)        3.3
2016                   (28.0)       151.0    (129.3)      (22.4)      151.7    (129.9)         5.6       (0.6)          -        (1.7)       3.3
2017                   (28.3)       152.5    (130.6)      (22.7)      153.2     (131.2)        5.7       (0.6)          -        (1.7)       3.4
2018                   (28.6)       154.0    (131.9)      (22.7)      154.8    (132.6)         5.7       (0.6)          -        (1.7)       3.4
2019                   (28.9)       155.6    (133.3)      (23.1)      156.3    (133.9)         5.8       (06)           -        (1 7)       3.4                        (
2020                   (29.2)       157.2    (134.6)      (23.3)      157.9    (135.2)         58         (0.6)                 (1.7)        3.5



Table 7
Azerlgas Investnent Program
Summary of Financial Retuns
Net Prsent Vaka @12%            $62.9 miHions
FRR                         51.6%
Capital Cost                                              Net Benefits
Asset        New     Replacernent   City Gate  Impementation    Asset         New      Replacement   City Gate        Net
Preservation    Meters     Meters   Instrumentation   Assistance   Preservabon    Meters     Meters   Instrumentabtion    Cash
Year      ($millions)   (Smillbns)  ($millions)   (Smillions)    (Smillions)    ($mnillions)   (Smillions)  (Smillions)   (Smillions)  Flow
1996                                    -             -          (02)                  -                 -              -         (0.2)
1997        (2.2)       (0.1)        (0.1)         (0.8)         (0.7)         0.1         0.0         0.0            0.0        (3.8)
1998        (1.9)        (1.6)       (1.9)         (0.8)         (0.6)         0.2         0.1         0.1            0.7        (5.7)
1999        (1.4)       (1.5)        (1.5)         (0.7)         (0.3)         0.2         0.7          1.4           1.7        (1.3)
2000        (0.7)       (0.1)        (1.4)            -          (0.3)         0.2         1.1          2.4           2.7         4.0             o
2001           -           -            -             -                        2.6         1.0          3.3           3.1         9.9            Ln
2002           -           -            -             -             -          4.5         0.9          3.2           3.1        11.7
2003           -           -            -             -             -          6.3         1.0          3.2           3.1         13.6
2004           -           -            -             -             -          8.2         1.0          3.3           3.1         15.5
2005           -           -            -             -             -         10.0         1.0          3.3           3.1        17.4
2006           -           -            -             -             -         10.2         1.0          3.3           3.1         17.7
2007           -           -            -             -             -         10.5         1.0          3.4           3.1         17.9
2008           -           -            -             -             -         10.7         1.0          3.4           3.1         18.2
2009           -           -            -             -             -         10.9         1.0          3.4           3.1         18.5
2010           -           -            -             -             -         11.2         1.0          3.5           3.1         18.8
2011           -           -            -             -             -         11.4         1.0          3.5           3.2         19.1
2012           -           -            -             -             -         11.6         1.0          3.5           3.2         19.4
2013           -           -            -             -             -         11.8         1.1          3.6           3.2         19.7
2014           -           -            -             -             -         12.1         1.1          3.6           3.3         20.0
2015           -           -            -             -             -         12.3         1.1          3.6           3.3         20.3
2016           -           -            -             -             -         12.3         1.1          3.7           3.3         20.4
2017           -           -            -             -             -         12.3         1.1          3.7           3.4         20.5
2018           -           -            -             -             -         12.3         1.1          3.7           3.4         20.5     '. 
2019                                                  -             -         12.3          1.1         3.8           3.4         20.6    (t  X
2020                                                 1-             -          2.3          1.1         3.8           3.5         20.7      a
____                                                                                                                             ee-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II c



- 106 -
Annex 5.2
Page 1
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRO FORMA FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.    The following tables present pro forma financial statements for Azerigaz for the years
1995 through 2003. The projections assume that the project is implemented in accordance
with the cost estimate given in Chapter 3 and the schedule outlined in Chapter 4. The
projections also assume that Azerigaz will undertake non-project related capital investments
including: (a) acquisition of new compressors from the Ukraine ($3 million in each of 1996
and 1997); (b) purchase of additional residential meters from China (approximately $5 million
per year from 1996 through 1999); and (c) continued replacement of older pipes throughout
the system (approximately $35 million per year).
2.    The projections also assume that Azerigaz will earn a positive margin averaging
$4.00/MCM on its gas sales, beginning in 1996, and will maintain that margin in real terms
thereafter. However, while this will provide sufficient funds to finance the project-related
investments, it is not sufficient to allow for the full capital investment program described
above. In order to meet these investment plans, Azerigaz will have to charge higher margins
in the future and/or improve the efficiency of its operations. Hence, Azerigaz will be
required, under the credit agreement, to prepare an annual business plan satisfactory to the
Bank which demonstrates how they propose to meet their financial obligations for the coming
year. In addition, Azerigaz would be required to obtain prior clearance from the Bank before
undertaking capital investments which are not related to the project.



Azergas                                                      30)A4f96         10:32
Financial Projections
- Bass Scenario - 4 Margin
fhfmzn  Average Mspn of 54-OMCM)
Caleder Year                                     1995           1996           1997         1998          1999         2000         2001         2002         2003
EconaoidFicmnancl Aasunptlons:
ht11W(onSMU(nid1993=100)                        110.2           113.8         116.5        1194          122.4        125.4         1286         131.6        134.4
etunmIaulktkIa-lthUS                            69%             3.3%          2.3%          2.5%         2.5%          2.5%         2.5%         2.4%         21%
AmiCPI(mid 1993=100)                          11973.5         14716.3       16582.8       18685.9      21055.7       23726.1      26735.1      30125.8      33946.5
Azeraijan hileni                               598.7%          22.9%          12.7%        12.7%         12.7%        12.7%        12.7%        12.7%         12.7%
Nan Exchrg  Rte- avge                          4,271          3,770          3,770        3.770         3,770        3.770        3,770        3,770         3,770
Nam Erlne Rate - yen erdt                      4,021           3,770         3,770        3,770         3,770        3,770        3.770         3.770        3,770
PPP Exuew   Rale - ap                              -               -             -                                                                  -            -
PPP Erlenge Rade - ye  end                         -               -             -            -             -            -            -             -            -
Gas Balance
Sales - Mm   m3 - Base
- hflflhdsir                                 1,911          1,833          1,758        1,686         1,703        1,720        1,737         1,754        1,772
- Resla sec                                  2,686          2,686          2,686        2,686         2,686        2,686        2,686        2,686         2,686
-CaurmaliSecter                              1,552          1,552          1,552        1,552         1,552        1,552        1,552         1,552        1,552
Losses - Base
- Tedc a                                        5.0%            5.0%          5.0%          5.0%         5.0%          5.0%         5.0%         5.0%         5.0%
- NornTedwici
-hkLalsed|>                                     10%            10%            10%          10%           10%          10%          10%           10%          10%
- Resrdh  seOr                                  10%            9.5%          90%          8.5%          8.0%           8%           8%           8%            8%
-Con-M SSastr                                   10%             10%           10%           10%          10%           10%          10%          10%          10%
Szbs - dimnam3 - fl Prect
- h    lm.sdc1r                              1,911          1,833          1,758        1,690         1,785        1,740        1,634         1,640        1,657                                               1
-Reslsk erscar                               Z686           2,686          2,686        Z686          2,686        2,686        2,686        2,686         2.686
-Cana-Secr                                   1,552           1,552         1,552        1,552         1,552        1,552         1,552        1.552        1,552                                               1
h zat dCnserabori                                               0.0%          0.0%         0.0%          0.3%           8%          14%          15%           15%                                             
Losses - Wb Pr*                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
- Tednd                                         5.0%            5.0%          5.0%          50%          5.0%          5.0%         5.0%         5.0%         5 0%
- Non-Teahcal
- hMdl sear                                     10%           10.0%         10.0%         9.8%          4.8%           0%           0%            0%           0%
- ResarA sei                                    10%            9.5%          9.0%         8.5%          8.0%           8%           8%           8%            8%
-Conma Sectr                                    10%             10%           10%          10%           10%           10%          10%          10%          10%
Cos Pwhs  - n- ar rn3
-us disecr                                   2,248          2,156          2.068        1,983         1,980        1,838         1,720        1,727        1,744
-ResideSSseocr                               3,160          3,142          3,123        3,105         3,087        3,087        3,087         3,087        3,087
-Crna lSer                                   1.826           1.826         1,826        1,826         1,826        1,826         1,826        1,826        1.826
Doi.e Pzusa   - iCon m3                      5,600           4,40D         3,700        3,500         3,200         3.200        3,520        3,872        4,259
hI flletdoGs- nranm3                           594           Z724          3,317         3,414        3,693         3,552        3,113        2.768        2,398
Price                                        1,634
Purdme Price per MCM
Danesic Gas                                     3.5            10.8           11.0         11.3         11.6          11.9         12.2          12.5         12.8
hqbdGas                                        430             44.4          45.4          46.6         47.7          48.9         50.2         51.4          52.4
Opating Coat.
Aveag Wages ($S-ye)                             257            265            271          278           285          292          299           306          313
Stefig                                       13.000          13,000        13,000        13,000       13,DD0        13,000       13,000       13,000       13,000
Social Welae Cosb (% o wages)                   37%            37%            37%          37%           37%          37%          37%           37%          37%
FicedO&M-Trwrissin (on$")                     1,550           1,601         1,638         1.679        1,721         1,764        1,808        1,851        1,890
Langofnetworkirse                             1,750           1,750         1,750         1,750        1,750         1,750        1,750        1,750        1,750
Dist ioOSM (SHMCM)                             0.53            0.55          0.56         0.58          0 59          0 61         0.62         0 64         0.65
Prperty Taxes                                  1.5%            1.5%          1.5%          1.5%         1.5%          1.5%         1.5%         1.5%          1 5%
krcwre Tax (%)                                  35%            35%            35%          35%           35%          35%           35%          35%          35%
flerest Rate - Foreig Debt                       8.0%           8.0%           8.0%         8.0%          8.0%         80%          80%           80%          8.0%                                        C D
hlres Ret. - Local Debt na-uwi                  636%
re Rae - Loael ot - nrom $                      13.5%           9.7%           8.7%         8.9%          89%          8.9%         8.9%          8.8%         8.4%                                  CD  IJ
DepreiaDnRab                                      4%              4%            4%            4%           4%            4%           4%           4%            4%



Financial Projections
- Bas Scenario - S4 Margin
Scenario                              Wfit Proect
Tariff on Required Revenue?           No
Socar Production                      Low
Summary of Results                          1995          1996         1997        1998        1999         2000        2001       2002        2003
Retun on NRFA                               152%           10%          5%          2%           1%          0%         -1%         -1%         -2%
Debt Service Coverage                                                   49.2        13.6         7.8         6.0         3.0         3.2         3.4          1
- 3 year average                                                                  23.5         9.1         5.6         4.1         3.2         3.4
Cash Flow Surplus/(Defcit) -Smillbns        41.8         (66.0)       (10.9)      (29.5)      (34.9)       (22.7)      (22.2)      (23.4)      (18.8)         o
Total 1995-2003   (186.6)
Surplusl(Delcit) exci change in W.C.        41.7         (35.3)       (36.6)      (34.3)      (33.5)       (27.5)      (25.8)      (22.7)      (19.6)
Total 1995-2003   (193.4)
Unmet Demand                                884            -            -           -           -            -          -
Average Tariff - S/MCM               $   23.16  $       31.76  $     36.05  S    37.71  $    39.74  $    39.85  $    38.42  $    37.04 $    35.27
Averae Margin - $/MCM                 $   12.49  $        4.00  $     4.09  $      4.19  $     4.30  $     4.41  S     4.52  $     4.63  $     4.72
Weighted Average Price of Gas - $/MCM  S    7.29  $      23.65  $     27.31  $    28.73  $    30.97  $    31.38  $    30.01  $    28.69  $    27.05
Weignted Averae Cost, inchuding blses  $    8.57  $      27.76  S    31.96  $    33.51  S    35.44  $    35.44  $    33.90  $    32.41  S    30.55
An



Financial Projections
- BoS Sculmmo - $4 Margin
Scurio                               Wkh Projed
Twiff on Required Revenue?           No
Sow Produn                          Low
Income Statement
Yew Endrd December 31- nilion USS         1995         1996         1997       1998        1999        2000        2001        2002       2003
Revenues frm Sales                                     192.8        216.1       223.5       239.3       238.2      225.6       217.7      207.9
- Induutrit                               87.3
- Reetdenr                                 3.2
- Commnnal Sector                         31.5
Gm Pwchases
- Donwmeu                                 19.6          47.5        40.9        39.6        37.1        38.1        42.9       48.4        54.3
- imports                                 25.5         121.0        150.7      159.0       176.3       173.8       156.1      142.2       125.8
Opaeing Mwgin                              76.8         24.3         24.5        24.9        25.9        26.3       26.5        27.2        27.8
Opo EN
O&M -Trniemision                          2.7           2.8          2.9        2.9         3.0         3.1         3.2        3.2         3.3
CAM - DidbxAon                            3.3           3.4          3.4        3.4         3.5         3.6         3.7        3.8         3.9
Vages nid Stwies                           3.3          3.4          3.5         3.6         3.7         3.8        3.9         4.0        4.1
Socil Cods                                 1.2           1.3         1.3         1.3         1.4         1.4        1.4         1.5         1.5
Prpepty Taxes                              0.4          1.1          1.7         2.3         2.8         3.7        4.1         4.5        4.7
Depeion0a                                  1.4          1.5          3.3         5.2         6.9         8.7       11.4        13.0        14.5
Intere on DOfic
Loan Inteor Eenses                          -           0.0          0.2         0.6         1.2         1.5        1.5         1.4         1.3
Total Opending Coas                        12.4          13.5        16.3        19.4        22.5        25.9       29.2        31.4        33.3
Prof before Tae                            64.4         10.8          8.3         5.5         3.3         0.5       (2.7)       (4.2)       (5.5)
Income Taes                               22.5          3.8          2.9         1.9         1.2         0.2
Prft Ar Taxes                              41.9          7.0          54A         3.6         2.2         0.3       (2.7)       (4.2)       (5i5)
LI



Financial Projections
- Base Scnrbo - $4 Margin
Scenario                             With Prject
Taiff on Required Revenue?           No
Socar Production                     LOW
Balance Sheet
as of December 31 - miliion USS           1995         1996         1997        1998       1999        2000        2001        2002       2003
Cu"w Assets
Cash in Bank                               1.9          2.0          2.4         2.9         3.4         3.9        4.4         4.7         5.0
Invednmets (Surplus Cash)                 41.8        (24.2)       (35.1)      (64.6)      (99.5)     (122.2)     (144.4)    (167.8)     (186.6)
Accounts Receivable                       30.5          48.2        54.0        55.9        59.8        59.6       56.4        54.4        52.0
lnvearies                                   -             -                        -           -           -          -           -          -
TotalCurnrtAssets                          74.1         26.0         21.4        (5.9)      (36.3)      (58.8)      (83.6)     (108.6)    (129.6)
Fomd Assets
Capital Work In Progress                     -           0.2         5.4        14.6        21.9        (0.0)       (0.0)      (0.0)       (0.0)
Cross Revaued Assets                      38.4         83.4        129.1       173.2       218.6       285.1      324.9       362.5       397.1         H
Less: Accunulated Depreciion              (10.9)        (12.8)      (16.5)      (22.0)      (29.5)      (39.0)      (51.4)     (65.6)      (81.5)        0
Not Revalied Assets                       27.5         70.5        112.6       151.2       189.0       246.1      273.5       296.9       315.6
Long Term Inredments
Total FDed Assets                          27.5          70.7       118.0       165.8       210.9       246.1       273.5      296.9       315.6
Tot Assets                                101.8          96.7       139.4       159.9       174.6       187-4       189.9      188.3       186.0
Short Term LiabUties:
Accounts Payable                           27.6          14.7        46.2        52.8        55.3        59.8       60.3        57.6        56.0
Short Teen Debt                             3.3          3.3          3.3         3.3         3.3         3.3        3.3         3.3         3.3
Long Teem Debt                                -          0.1          4.3        11.8        17.6        20.2        18.9       17.5        16.2
Charter Capita                              2.7           2.7         2.7         2.7         2.7         2.7         2.7        2.7         2.7
Revaluation Surplus                        26.7         27.6         29.2        32.1        36.3        41.6       47.7        54.3        60.5
AccumLation & CXher Funds                   1.5           1.5         1.5         1.5         1.5         1.5         1.5        1.5         1.5
Retained Eariings                          39.9         46.9         52.3        55.8        58.0        58.3       55.6        51.4        45.9
To  Liabiiind EqIty                       101.6          96.7       139.4       159.9       174.6       187.4       189.9      188.3       186.0
An vo
co It'



Financial Projections
- Base Scnario - $4 Margin
Scenario                              With Project
Tarf on Requied Revenue?              No
Socar Producin                       Low
Source and Application of Funds
Year Endit December 31 - monb  US$         1995          1996         1997        1998        1999        2000        2001        2002        2003
Sources:
Income from Opeoabons                       41.9           7.0          5.4         3.6         2.2         0.3        (2.7)        (4.2)      (5.5)
Deprecidion                                  1.4           1.5          3.3         5.2         6.9          8.7        11.4       13.0        14.5
InrterestCrged t Opwatons                      -           0.0          0.2         0.6         1.2          1.5        1.5         1.4         1.3
Borowings- Foreig                              -           0.1          4.2         7.4         5.8          2.6          -           -           -
Total Sources                              43.3           8.7         13.1        16.8        16.1         13.2        10.2        10.2        10.3
Applications:                                                                                                                                                I
Debt Service
Prindpal Repayment                            -             -            -           -           -           -          1.3        1.3          1.3
Loan Interest                                 -           0.0          0.2         0.6         1.2          1.5         1.5         1.4         1.3
Interest on Deficit                           -             -            -           -           -           -           -           -           -
Capital Expenditures kid IDC - Project         -           0.2          5.3         9.1         6.9          3.2          -           -           -
Capital Expenditures - Oter                    -          43.7         43.8        40.9        41.0         35.5        32.7        29.8        27.0
Nd Inclrease(Decrease) in
Non-csh Wordng Capital                     (0.0)         30.7        (25.7)       (4.7)        1.4         (4.8)       (3.6)       0.7         (0.8)
Total Appkatons                            (0.0)         74.5         23.5        45.9         50.5        35.4        31.9        33.3        28.8
Net Change in Cash Position                 43.3         (65.8)       (10.4)      (29.1)      (34.4)       (22.2)      (21.7)      (23.0)      (18.5)
of which
Cash in Bank                                1.5           0.2          0.4         0.5         0.5          0.5         0.5         0.3         0.3
Surplus for Other Invesrments              41.8             -            -           -           -            -           -          -           -
Shortfall - to be financed                    -          (66.0)       (10.9)     (29.5)      (34.9)       (22.7)      (22.2)      (23.4)      (18.8)
OS tA
4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~     %



- 112 -
Annex 5.3
Page 1
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS - CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS
1.    The following tables address the sensitivity of the cash flow and other financial
projections to the possibility that the Government will decide to maintain indefinitely their
current policy of disallowing gas imports. As with the pro forma financial statements
presented in the Base Case (Annex 5.2), the projections are based on the assumption that the
project is implemented in accordance with the cost estimate given in Chapter 3 and the
schedule outlined in Chapter 4. The projections also assume that Azerigaz will undertake non-
project related capital investments including: (a) acquisition of new compressors from the
Ukraine ($3 million in each of 1996 and 1997); (b) purchase of additional residential meters
from China (approximately $5 million per year from 1996 through 1999); and (c) continued
replacement of older pipes throughout the system (approximately $35 million per year).
2.    The sensitivity analysis further assumes that: (i) gas imports are not resumed; (ii) gas
supply from domestic fields declines in line with the projections shown in Table 2.1; (iii) supply
shortfalls are spread over all customer classes in proportion to their demand; (iv) prices to
consumers would be held constant in real terms, apart from the doubling of residential prices
required prior to credit negotiations; and (v) a minimum $4.00/MCM (1996 price levels) average
margin would be maintained.
3.    The sensitivity analysis demonstrates that, at least in the short term, Azerigaz is in a
moderately better financial position as a result of continued curtailment of imports, provided that
current purchase and selling prices are maintained in real terms, and that the curtailment in supply
is spread proportionately across all customer classes. If, however, as a result of political or social
considerations, curtailments are focussed on industrial customers in order to maintain supply to
residential and communal customers, there would be a rapid deterioration in Azerigaz's average
margin at current prices. Furthermore, unless domestic production could be maintained at or near
current levels, the curtailment of imports would entail as much as a 50 percent drop in Azerigaz's
sales, and the company would be unable to cover its full operating costs even with a $4.00/MCM
average margin.



Azerigas                                                                   1i.43
Financil Proectio"
- No -om  Ucmb
(No ROI Chins  kdhflVuUluIS Pd 05, PIC;laI Load Shd
C earY                                        19Y5            1isi          1i7           1sse          1959         2000          200          2002         2003
wtu,SUSIUJV*4d1 883i00)                       1102           113.8          116.5        119.4         122.4         125.4        128.6        131.6         134.4
hturSorS hu'- ais                             8.9%           3.3%           2.3%         2.5%          z5%           2.5%         25%           2.4%         2.1%
And CPI OMd IM100)                         11973.5         14716.3        16S82.6      18685.9       21055.7       23726.1      26735.1      30125.8       33946.5
Azb i IrIlIuI                               598.7%          22.9%          12.7%         12.7%        1Z7%          121%         12.7%         12.7%        127%
Non PS        R.IS - aWe                    4271            3,770          3,770        3,770         3,770         3,770        3,770        3,770         3,770
NOunP Rml amb-Yevui                         4,021           3,770          3,770        3,770         3,770         3,770        3,770        3,770         3,770
PFW          PA_ - a                             -              ---
PPP ESw  gRda-YW                                 -                                                        --
Sobs -  al  .3 - BasmI./
- lmuhlS se t           ~                 s1,911          i.e33         1,758         1,686         1,703         1,720        1,737        1,754        1,
- Red ses                                 2Z686           2.66          286           2686          2,686        2.686         2,606        2,666        2,686
- conwam_t  _ets                          1,552           1,552         1,552         1,5525        52 52         1,552        1,552        1,552         1,552
Loses - one
- Ted t                                       5.0A%          5.0%           5.0%         5.0%          5.0%          5.0%         5.0%          5.0%         5.0%
-Nowchni4ed                                                                                                                                                  10
A10%           10%            10%          10%           10%           10%          10%           10%          10%
Rataiml set                                10%            905%          9,0%          8.5%          8.0%           8%            8%           6%           8%
-C     dS _eto                                10%             10%           1O%          1O%           10%           10%          10%           10%          10%
8ea - a nS3-VMPrCOd
- knew sets           *                   1,911           1.e33          1,758        1,690         1,785         1,740        1,634        1,640         1,657
- I RaII sector                           2,686          2,666          2,666        2,656         2,686         2,686        2,886         2,686        2,686
Coinue d setor                          1,552           1,552         1,552         1,552         1,552         1,552        1,552        1,552         1,552
hated  _mlabW Cmuau                                          0.0%           0.0%         0.0%          0.3%            8%          14%          15%          15%
- Tededh                                      5.0%           5.0%           5.0%          5.0%         5.0%          5.0%         5.0%          5.0%         5%
N-rTchne  mdv10%                                           10.0%          10.0%         9.0%          4.8%           0%            0%           0%           0%
ReskeS sesr                                 10%            9.5%          9.0%          8.5%          8.0%           8%            8%           8%           8%
-c ns _ed  s                                 10%            10%            10%          10%           10%           10%          10%           10%          10%
Gas Purudaes - ant m
- Smw   sector                            2,248          2,158          2.068        1,963         1,960         1,838        1,720         1,727        1,744
-hResid d sects                           3,160           3,142          3,123        3,105         3,087         3,087        3,087        3,087         3,087
-Corimised es                            1,82            1,828         1.52          1,626        1,826         1,826         1,826        1,826        1,826
Q2adte5fla          n in3                  50              4.40 3f,700                 3,50s         3,e26        3,260       3S,8           3,I72        4,30
GmdG  -                                     sm m3  594    2,724          3,317        3,414         3,693         3,552        3,113         2,768        2,3s8
Pit"                                       1,634
Sagv Pie" per "CM637                                                                                                                                           50
-     hktN sets                            53.33            55.1           58.4         57.6          59.2          60.7         8Z2           63.7         85.0
- Redde_t sesr                               1.41            2.2            z9           3.0           3.0           3.1          3.2           3.3          3.3
- CassvuS Sec_                              23.67            24.4          25.0          25.6          25.3         26.9          27.6         28.3          28.9
Donedo                                        3.p            10MC          11.0          11.3          11.6          11.9         12.2         12.5          12.8
h       awo sd                               43.0            44.4          45.4          46.6         47.7          48.9          50.2         51.4         524
-Coms
AIW ^     _    (SAiusW)                      257             265           271           278           285           292          299          306           313
s5.k                                      13,000          13.ODD         13,000       13,000        13,000        13,00        13,000        13,000       13,5 
Scold  mu.f  costs % of Wages)               37%             37%           37%           37%           37%          37%           37%          37%          37%
~~ CAM- TrueSselmn (Shn~v)       1,550          1,601          1,638        1,679         1,721         1,764        1,608         1,851        1,890
Lutd oM-ThkluES                             1,750          1,750          1,750        1355          1,750         1,750        1,750         1,750        1,750
D      h _ o u ofs no.ss ins                                                            o.se          0.s61                      0.a2          0.e4         0.65
Watbon OLM (SACM)                            0.53           0.55           0.58         0.58          0.59          0.1.8064.5
Prpep  TMa                                   1.5%           1.5%           1.5%         1.5%          1.5%          1.5%         15%           11
_oms Tax (%)                                 35%             35%           35%           35%           35%          35%           35%          35%           35%
htt" Rd* - F a  Debt                          5.o%A           e.o%          e.0#          8.0#A         e.0%          e.0#         e.o%         e.o%          e.o#% 
_eiss R t- Locl Ded - n                      636%                                                                                               88            8
ktedRd,-Lcal Ded - ruin S                   13.5%            9.7%          8.7%          8.9%          8.9%          8.S%         8.s#         8.8%          6.4%                                                                                             f    Ul
DepredSsiRde                                    4%             4%             4%            4%           4%            4%            4%           4%           4%



Financdal Projections
- No hwqpod Scario
(No Rl Chwtge In hkdustrialCommnal Prices, Proportional Load Shed)
Soenorio                             Wit Prjdct
Twriff an Requhed Revenue?           No
Socar Production                     Low
Sunwmry of Results                          1995          1996         1997         1998        1999         2000        2001        2002         2003
Return an NRFA                             152%           26%           11%          6%           4%          3%           2%          2%          3%
Debt Service Coverage                                                   90.9        22.8         13.2        10.2          5.8         7.2         9.1
- 3yer avrage                                                         56.9        42.3         15.4         9.7          7.7         7.4         8.7
Cah FlowSurpl/(Defct)-Smilions             41.8          (28.7)       (24.7)       (28.4)       (26.4)      (21.3)      (18.4)      (12.4)        (5.8)
Total 1995-2003   (124.4)
Surplus/(Deficit)exIchangeinW.C.           41.7          (23.9)       (29.2)       (28.3)       (27.1)      (21.2)      (18.0)      (11.6)        (4.7)
Total 1995-2003   (122.1)
Unmet Demand                                884          2,321        2,834       2,925        3,183        3,134       2,804       2,498        2,165
Aveage Tariff - S/MCM               $    23.16  $       23.85  $     24.29  $    24.52  $     25.67  $     26.05  $    26.06  $    26.73  $    27.40
Average Margin - S/MCM               $    14.59  $      11.18  $      11.36  $    11.32  $     12.59 S     12.67  $    12.07 $    12.43 S    12.84
WeightedAeragePriceofGas-$/MCM       $     8.06  S      10.80  S      11.05  $    11.32  $     11.61  $    11.90 S    12.20  S    12.49  S    12.75
WeegnddAverageCost,includinglosses   $    8.57  S       12.67  S      12.93  $    13.20 S      13.08  $    13.39  $    13.99  $    14.30  $    14.56
w A



Financial Projections
- No imports Sceorio
(No Ral Change In ndustrialCoommunal Prices, Proportional Load Shed)
Scenario                            Wit Project
Tariff on Required Revenue?         No
Socar Producbi                      LOW
Income Statement
Year Ended December 31 - million USS     1995          1996         1997        1998        1999         2000       2001        2002        2003
Revenues from Saes
- Irdkustnl                               87.3          62.4         52.2        49.4        49.8        50.2        53.1        60.1        68.2
- Residential                              3.2           3.6          4.1         4.0         3.8         4.0         4.5         5.0         5.7
- Communa Sector                         31.5          23.4         20.5        20.2         19.2        19.9        22.4        25.2        28.3
Gas Purhases
- Domestic                                19.6          47.5         40.9        39.6        37.1        38.1        42.9        48.4        54.3
- Imports                                 25.5             -            -           -           -           -           -           -           -          e
Opering Margin                            76.8          41.9         35.9        34.0         35.8        36.0        37.0        42.0        47.9 9'
Open Expenses
O&M - Transmisson                         2.7           2.8          2.9         2.9         3.0          3.1        3.2         3.2         3.3
O&M - Diibution                           3.3           3.4          3.4         3.4         3.5          3.6        3.7         3.8         3.9
Wages and Saaries                         3.3           3.4          3.5         3.6          3.7         3.8         3.9         4.0         4.1
Social Costs                              1.2           1.3          1.3          1.3         1.4         1.4         1.4         1.5         1.5
Pmperty Taxes                             0.4           1.1          1.7         2.3          2.8         3.7         4.1         4.5         4.7
DepreciaIon                               1.4           1.5          3.3         5.2          6.9         8.7        11.4        13.0        14.5
Interest on Defict
Loan Interest Expenses                      -           0.0          0.2         0.6          1.2         1.5         1.5         1.4         1.3
Totl Operating Costs                      12.4           13.5        16.3         19.4        22.5        25.9        29.2        31.4        33.3
ProfitbeforeTaxes                         64.4          28.4         19.6        14.6         13.2        10.2         7.8        10.6        14.6
Income Taxes                             22.5           10.0         6.9         5.1          4.6         3.6         2.7         3.7         5.1
ProfitAfter Taxes                         41.9          18.5         12.8         9.5          8.6         6.6         5.1         6.9         9.5
Cp, Lo



Financal Projecions
- No -w Scerbio
(N RPAl Chg n hInInstrlallComnurmal Prices. Propotonal Lod  Shed
Scwic                                Wkh Pmpd
T rf on Requmod Revenue?             No
Sow on                               LW
Ba9ac Shwt
ao D ewenbr 31 -..MSon USS                1995          1996          1997        1998         1999        2000        2001         2002        2003
Cuwer Assds
Cash hi Bnk                                1.9            2.0          2.4         2.9          3.4          3.9         4.4         4.7         5.0
kIrndm sr (Surpks Cah)                    41.8           13.1        (11.6)      (40.1)       (66.5)       (87.8)     (108.2)     (118.6)     (124.4)
AoaLsfteot  v ie                          30.5           22.4         19.2         18.4        18.2         18.5        20.0        22.6        25.5
Tobt Cunnt AsMds                           74.1           37.5         10.0        (18.8)       (44.9)      (65.4)      (81.8)      (91.3)       (93.8)
Fbhd As_ 
CupNd Work hi Prtop                          -            0.2          5.4        14.8         21.9         (0.0)       (0.0)       (0.0)        (0.0)
Grons RevisedMAeds                        38.4           83.4        129.1        173.2       218.6        285.1       324.9       362.5        397.1
Less: Accumundd DeprecldOn                 (10.9)        (12.8)       (16.5)       (22.0)      (29.5)       (39.0)      (51.4)      (65.6)       (81.5)       o
Not ReyAsd Amds                           27.5           70.5        112.6       151.2        189.0        246.1       273.5       296.9       315.6
Long Term hkwsslnnB
Tob Fbmd Muds                              27.5           70.7        118.0        165.8       210.9        248.1       273.5       296.9        315.6
To4uIMuds                                 101.I          10B.4         1&         1470 t                    1972.0.                              2218:
Short Tomn LAUbHs:
Acoasmi PuySbl                             27.6           14.7         16.0         15.1        15.5         15.8        16.8         18.6        20.4
Short Term DW                               3.3            3.3          3.3          3.3         3.3          3.3         3.3         3.3          3.3
Lonrg Tun DaM                                 -            0.1          4.3         11.8        17.6         20.2        18.9        17.5         16.2
Cwt.r CapNd                                 2.7            2.7          2.7          2.7         2.7          2.7         2.7          2.7         2.7
R.AILxhd n Srpku                           26.7           27.6         29.2        32.1         36.3         41.6        47.7        54.3         60.5
ActrnumLdon & Oiw Funds                      1.5           1.5          1.5          1.5         1.5          1.5         1.5          1.5         1.5
Ret  FAdE.Sncg                             39.9           58.4         71.1         80.6        89.2         95.8       100.9        107.8       117.2
T...    h  . .....       1....                           48                        147.0         8                            . 00.8   1205.t    221.8
umom"                                                                                                     J.A:.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3v



Financid Projecons
.No be'ou& ScNWlO
X Rua Chw. I M&mtriaICommunal PrineP, Propotonml Load Shed
Swb                                 WE P
Taf on Requhad Reme?                No
Sow Pmod n                          LOW
Source anid Appicatkon of Funds
Yw Endh9 Doeenber 31 - milln USS         1995          1996         1997        1998        1999         2000       2001        2002        2003
Souroas:
kn ammfrom OpuabonS                       41.9          18.5         12.8         9.5         8.6          6.6         5.1         6.9         9.5
Dereckdoln                                 1.4           1.5          3.3         5.2          8.9         8.7        11.4        13.0        14.5
IrieauCchgedtoCOprorn                        -           0.0          0.2         0.6          1.2         1.5         1.5         1.4         1.3
BcoroWbe - Fonoqi                            -           0.1          4.2         7.4          5.8         2.6           -           -           -
ToW Sources                              43.3          20.1         20.5        22.7         22.5        19.5        18.0        21.3        25.3
ApplHons:                                                                                                                                                   -
Det Sovce
Pthn  R.popnwei                             -             -            -           -            -           -         1.3         1.3         1.3
Loan I In m                                 -           0.0          0.2         0.6          1.2         1.5         1.5         1.4         1.3
1     oes an Dec                            -             -            -
Capta Ewiperwud k ivd [DC - Protect          -           0.2          5.3         9.1          6.9         3.2           -           -           -
Capit Emxpenikua - Other                     -          43.7         43.8        40.9         41.0        35.5        32.7        29.8        27.0
Net Increm(Decreeme) in
Non-cahWoCddngCapial                     (0.0)          4.9         (4.5)        0.1         (0.7)        0.1         0.4         0.9         1.1
Tota Applicatsn                          (0.0)          48.7        44.8        50.7         48.4        40.3        35.9        33.4        30.7
Net Cwge hi Cah Posin                     43.3         (28.6)        (24.3)     (28.0)       (25.9)      (20.8)      (17.9)      (12.1)       (5.5)
of whic
Cash hI Bnk                               1.5           0.2          0.4         0.5          0.5         0.5         0.5         0.3         0.3
Surpus far Oter Invesnefnts              41.8             -            -           -            -           -           -           -           -
Sh         - to e fInanced                  -          (28.7)       (24.7)      (28.4)      (26.4)      (21.3)      (18.4)      (12.4)       (5.8)
o X.



- 118 -
Annex 6.1
Page 1
AZERBAIJAN GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Costs
1.    The costs of the project are taken as being the financial costs. In the case of the foreign
cost component, this reflects the cost of equipment and implementation services procured
competitively on the international market, and is thus representative of opportunity cost. In the
case of local cost, much of the cost is for services provided by Azerigaz and local contractors.
Since these services are labor intensive and since there may be little alternative employment for
these resources elsewhere in the economy, it could be argued that the services should be priced at
below their financial cost. However, no adjustment has been made, both because of the relatively
modest proportion of local costs in the total project cost, and in the interests of maintaining a
straightforward and conservative economic evaluation.
B. Benefits
2.    The project yields a number of benefit streams, including:
(a)   Savings on future expenditure on pipeline replacement due to the extension of the
useful life of pipelines through rehabilitation of the cathodic protection system;
(b)   Reduced gas use as customers who have new, or more effective, meters installed
are given an incentive to use gas more efficiently; and
(c)   Reduced gas leakage due to improvement in average pipeline quality, replacement
of damaged and corroded pipe and improved leak detection and gas quantity
accounting.
3.    All of these benefits are evaluated against a "counter-factual" (or "without project") case
in which no investments are made. The nature of the project is such that alternative cases of other
investments, or intermediate variants, are not easily applicable. It should also be noted that the
project implementation process will involve many micro-decisions on specific investments, for
cathodic protection of particular stretches of pipeline, and for replacement of individual meters.
Screening procedures will ensure that only investments which meet certain basic criteria of
viability will be made (eg. only pipelines which will continue in use will be cathodically protected,
and meters will be installed only at premises likely to continue to use gas). In this sense, it is likely
that the final investment pattern will be somewhat different than currently assumed but will have
an element of self-correction away from sub-optimal outcomes.
4.    Economic Value of Natural Gas: The economic value of natural gas is taken to be fuel
oil parity. The economic value of fuel oil, fob Baku, is taken as $50/ton, based upon a
Mediterranean price for low sulphur fuel oil of $1 1 0/ton and transport costs from Baku to the
Mediterranean (by rail and ship via a Black Sea port) of $60 /ton. The equivalent value of gas is
taken as $45/MCM.



- 119 -
Annex 6.1
Page 2
5.    In the short run, it could be argued that the economic value of gas should be based upon
the cost of gas imports from Turkmenistan. At the margin, under present circumstances,
additional gas made available through more efficient usage would probably reduce the need for
gas imports. However, it is difficult to estimate a realistic economic value for such imports, since
these are paid for largely in barter goods. In addition, in the medium term and long term (during
which project benefits accrue), Azerbaijan's gas production is expected to stabilize and then
recover. In this case, gas imports may be eliminated and gas will compete with fuel oil in the
substitutable power market (which is currently using mostly fuel oil). Hence fuel oil parity
represents the most useful benchmark for economic valuation of gas in Azerbaijan.
6.    Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR): The EIRR of the project under base case
assumptions (outlined below) is relatively high, at 46.9%. It should be noted that the calculation
of the project EIRR includes allowance for the cost of Implementation Assistance ($1.3 million),
which is not included under the individual components below.
C. Evaluation of Benefits by Major Component
7.      Asset Preservation: The EIRR of this component is estimated at 53.4% under base
case assumptions. It is assumed that 2,600 kilometers of pipe will be protected through
rehabilitated cathodic protection systems, with unit replacement cost of $273,000/km. With
improved cathodic protection, remaining average lifetimes of pipelines are estimated to be
extended from 20 years to 40 years. The average proportion of pipeline replaced each year thus
decreases progressively from 5% at the start of the project, to 2.5% after 15 years.
8.    Additional benefits from this component come from savings in electricity costs, as stray
currents and losses are eliminated and a reduction in gas leakage due to improved pipe quality.
However, these savings are small in relation to those yielded by the reduced spending on pipe
replacement.
9.    New Gas Meters: The EIRR of this component is estimated at 43.0%. Introduction of
meters for consumers who are currently not metered is assumed to provide a strong inducement
to use gas more efficiently. It is expected also that the general environment in Azerbaijan will
move towards increased effectiveness of market mechanisms (through privatization, creation of
hard budget constraints and increased management autonomy). It is assumed that the efficiency of
gas use is improved by 15% three years after meters are installed. This is a fairly conservative
assumption, since it is often observed that introduction of meters can lead to improvements in gas
efficiency of 25% or more.
10.   However, it should be noted that the improvement in gas use efficiency will entail some
burden for consumers, who previously did not have to concern themselves with the quantity of
gas used. Improved efficiency of use among these consumers will mostly take the form of simple
behavioral and operational changes (turning off gas using equipment when not in use, adjusting
temperature of heaters, calibrating equipment). However, there is in principle a cost perceived by
consumers in the form of lost "consumer surplus", since the previous availability of gas at zero
marginal cost presumably generated a certain level of convenience which was of some value to the
users. In the case of a normal price increase, it can be argued that a part (up to half) of the value



- 120 -
Annex 6.1
Page 3
of the reduction in gas usage (at the new higher price), should be counted as a loss of consumer
surplus (this corresponds to the area under the demand curve). However, in this case this would
probably overstate the loss, since consumers were probably not operating on any meaningful
demand curve due to the effects of the previous non-market planning system. Moreover, a
substantial part of gas use represents pure "waste", the reduction of which does not correspond to
any significant loss of welfare to the consumer (such as turning off appliances when these are not
needed). Hence in the evaluation, a 25% reduction in the value of gas saved has been taken to
represent the loss of consumer surplus associated with introduction of gas meters, or with more
effective metering (which raises metered gas costs).
11.   Replacement Gas Meters: This component yields an EIRR of 2 .1%. The evaluation of
the benefits from this component consists of two separate items:
(a)   Many of the meters currently installed are not working properly, or are completely
non-functional. The proportion of such meters is believed to be at least 10%, based
upon selected site inspections. In these cases gas usage is based upon norms or
negotiations between Azerigaz and the customer, rather than on metered usage. In
this case, installation of a replacement meter has much the same effect as
installation of a new meter, and the benefits are measured as described for "New
Meters". The total reduction in gas use will be about 1.5% within three years (i.e.
15% of 10%).
(b)   Meters are estimated to be under-reading consumption by about 10% on average
due to a lack of temperature and pressure compensation systems. Hence
replacement of these meters with new meters will lead to a rise of approximately
10% in the customers' gas bill. As in the case of new meters, customers are
assumed to reduce consumption by 0. 15% for each 1.0% rise in gas prices, and
total gas consumption is expected to fall by about 1.5% within three years of
introduction of replacement meters.
12.     As in the case of new meters, the economic benefit from the reduction in gas use is
offset by a loss of consumer surplus (of 25% of the total), as consumers are burdened with the
inconvenience of higher gas costs. However, the above estimate also underestimates the benefits
to some extent, since it does not quantify the savings of gas that would result from elimination of
gas theft through meter tampering, as tamper-proof meters replace current obsolete models. Such
a reduction in theft will show up not only as a reduction in "non-technical" losses to the gas
company, but will also induce a cut-back in gas consumption. Much of the gas used "free" when
stolen will probably not be used at all when consumers are forced to pay for it. However, it is
difficult to quantify this effect.
13.   City Gate Instrumentation: This component has an EIRR of 74.3%. This relatively high
rate of return is based upon the fact that while the cost of the component is relatively low ($2.4
million), it affects all of the gas used in Azerbaijan (since all gas flows through city gate stations).
The economic benefits result from the reduction of gas use following upon introduction of
effective city gate metering. At present, it is estimated by Azerigaz that a significant proportion of
non-technical losses take the form of theft of gas through tampering with city-gate station meters.



- 121 -
Annex 6.1
Page 4
The elimination of this theft will have a large effect on gas use, since the gas which was stolen is
presumably used very inefficiently. Once consumers have to pay for this gas its use will be
curtailed sharply. Overall reduction in gas use is estimated at 1.5%.
D. Risk Analysis
14.   The main factors which could lead to lower economic returns to the project are:
(a)   Possible lower benefits from cathodic protection, due to the condition of current
pipelines being poorer than expected, or due to unexpected technical factors (eg.
soil characteristics);
(b)   Possible lower demand response (improvement in efficiency) following
introduction of new and replacement meters;
(c)   Lower benefits from savings of gas due to lower international fuel oil prices (or a
future surplus of gas in Azerbaijan as large gas deposits are developed more
rapidly than anticipated),
(d)   Higher capital costs than assumed.
15.   The results of various sensitivities on these parameters is shown in Table 2. It can be seen
that the project EIRR is extremely robust to a variety of adverse assumptions. A case has also
been run in which all the "downside" assumptions have been combined. Even in this case the
overall Project EIRR remains satisfactory, at 23.0 %.
16.   Switching values for the key variables are fairly extreme. The overall EIRR of the Project
falls below 12% only when capital costs exceed the base case figure by a factor of 6.6 (ie. costs
are 660% of the base case figure). For gas prices, key components fall below 12% only at gas
prices under $1 0/mcm. Demand response can be 4 times less than estimated (ie. 25% of the base
case), with the project still yielding over 12%.
17.   The component with the lowest rate of return, and which is hence most vulnerable to
unfavorable developments in project variables, is the Replacement Metering component. In a
technical sense, it is possible to separate this component and to carry out only the other
components which have a higher return. However, it should be noted that it is not practical or
desirable to eliminate or greatly curtail this component, because: (a) it would be undesirable to
create two classes of consumers, those with accurate new meters, and those with unreliable
"Soviet-era" meters, since the latter would continue to dispute their bills, while the former will
feel that they are paying for the non-technical losses of the latter; and (b) the maintenance of many
inaccurate meters will impede the overall goal of creating a full gas accounting system for
Azerbaijan with consequent benefits in terms of network management and efficiency.



- 122 -
Annex 6.1
Page 5
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                                Base Case
Azwbaljan Gas System Rehabilltation Project
Gas Value = $45mcm based on Fuel Oil $5aton
Asset Preservation
Capital Cos -                    6.2 million USS
Construction Cost Profile
Year 1       0.0%
Year2       36.1%
Yer3        30.1%
Year 4      22.5%
Year5       11.3%                   100.0%
Assumptions:
Length of Protected Assets     2,600 km
Unit Value of Assets     $  273,000 per km
Annual Pipe Repiacement   lMhout Proct           With PFrojoct
5.0% per year           3.0% In 5 yers
2.5% In 15 years
Electricity Consumption  $  473,040 (0.OM/kwh)
Electricity Savings      $   94,68           20%
Incremental O&M          $  100,000 per year
InService                       1998
Leak Losse                      5.0% vUthout Proj.      4.0% VYth Proj.
Total Throughput               2,000 million m3@   $    45.00 per MCM
EIRR           53.4%
Capital    Incremntal Replacement Replacermnt Replmment   Net Saving    Eecbtity   L"k Loss         Net
Cost        O&M       No Project  VWth Project  vWth Project  In Replacemnt   Savings    Reduction    Bnefts
Y"r       (S millions)   (S mililons)  (S millons)    (%/yr)    (S mililons)   (S millions)   (S millons)  (S millns)  (Smliilons)
@5.0%tyr
1996            -                   (35.5)       5.0%        (35.5)
1997         (2.2)         -        (35.5)       5.0%        (35.5)             -          '                    (2.2)
1998         (1 9)                  (35.5)       5.0%        (35.5)                        ,                      9)
1999         (1.4)         -        (35.5)       5.0%        (35.5)             -          -           -        (1.4)
2000         (0.7)                  (35.5)        5.0%        (35.5)                       -                    (0.7)
2001                     (0.1)      (35.5)        4.6%        (32.7)          2.8        0.1         0.9         3.7
2002                     (0.1)      (35.5)        4.2%        (29.8)          5.7        0.1         0.9         6.6
2003                     (0.1)       (35.5)       3.8%        (27.0)          8.5        0.1         0.9         9.4
2004                     (0.1)       (35.5)       3.4%        (24.1)         11.4        0.1         0.9        12.3
2005                     (0.1)       (35.5)       3.0%        (21.3)         14.2        0.1         0.9        15.1
2006                     (0.1)       (35.5)       3.0%        (20.9)         14.8        0.1         0.9        15.4
2007                     (0.1)       (35.5)       2.9%        (20.6)         14.9        0.1         0.9        15.8
2008                     (0.1)       (35.5)       2.9%        (20.2)         15.3        0.1         0.9        16.2
2009                     (0.1)       (35.5)       2.8%        (19.9)         15.6        0.1         0.9        16.5
2010                     (0.1)       (35.5)       2.8%        (19.5)         18.0        0.1         0.9        16.9
2011                     (0.1)       (35.5)       2.7%        (19.2)         18.3        0.1         0.9        17.2
2012                     (0.1)       (35.5)      2.7%        (18.8)          16.7        0.1         0.9        17.6
2013                     (0.1)       (35.5)      2.6%        (18.5)          17.0        0.1         0.9        17.9
2014                     (0.1)       (35.5)      2.6%        (18.1)          17.4        0.1         0.9        18.3
2015                     (0.1)       (35.5)       2.5%        (17.7)         17.7        0.1         0.9        18.6
2016                     (0.1)      (35.5)        2.5%        (17.7)         17.7        0.1         0.9        18.6
2017                     (0.1)       (35.5)       2.5%       (17.7)          17.7        0.1         0.9        18.6
2018                     (0.1)       (35.5)      2.5%        (17.7)          17.7        0.1         0.9        18.6
2019                     (0.1)       (35.5)       2.5%        (17.7)         17.7        0.1         0.9        18.6
2020                     (0.1)       (35.5)      2.5%        (17.7)          17.7        0.1         0.9        18.6



- 123 -
Annex 6.1
Page 6
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                             Base Cass
Azarb qan Gas System Rehabiliation Project
Industrial Meters - New
Capital Coat -                 3.3 milion USS
Construction Cost Profile
Year 1      0.0%
Year 2      2.2%
Year 3     49.4%
Year 4     45.1%
Year 5      3.4%                             100.0%
Assumptions:
M44thout Project       WIth Project
Annual Sals            millon m3          466
Non-Technical Lorse     percent         10.0%                   0.0%
Conservation Impact     percent          0.0%                  15.0%
Economic Vable of Gas              S   45.00 per MCM
Consumer Surpkis Loss   percent        25.00%             Benefits reduced by 25% due to lss of consumer surplus
Incr. MeterO&M 0$mlllion/yr                          0.10        3% orcaptai cost
EIRR         43.0%
CapIal      Cons.      Cons.     Conserv.     Cons.       Cons.   Net Change Net Change Incremental  Consumer        Net
Cost    No Projet  No Project   Impact  VWth Projed VWih Project   Cons.        Cons.       O&M       Surplus     Benefits
Year     (Smkons)    mmcm    (Smillions)       %         mmcm    (Smillions)    mmcm    (Smillions)  (SmIllIons)  (Smillions)  (Smions)
1996          -      466           21.0      0.0%         466        21.0          0           -          -         0.0
1997       (0.1)     452           20.3      0.0%         452        20.3          0           -          -         0.0       (0.1)
198       (1.6)     438           19.7      0.0%         438        19.7          0           -          -         0.0       (1.6)
1990       (1.5)     425           19.1      0.3%         424        19.1         (1)       (0.1)       (0.1)       0.0       (1.5)
2000       (0.1)     412           18.5       7.7%        380        17.1        (32)       (1.4)       (0.1)      (0.4)       0.9
2001                 416           18.7      14.5%        356         16.0       (80)       (2.7)       (0.1)      (0.7)        1.9
2002                 421           18.9      15.0%        357         16.1       (63)       (2.8)       (0.1)      (0.7)       2.0
2003                 425           19.1      15.0%        361         16.2       (64)       (2.9)       (0.1)       (0.7)      2.1
2004                 429           19.3      15.0%        364         16.4       (64)       (2.9)       (0-1)      (0.7)        2.1
2005                 433           19.5      15.0%        368         16.6       (65)       (2.9)       (0-1)      (0-7)       2.1
2006                 437           19.7      15.0%        372         16.7       (66)       (3.0)       (0.1)      (0.7)       2.1
2007                 442           19.9      15.0%        376         1e.9       (66)       (3.0)       t0.1)      (0.7)       2.1
2008                 446           20.1      15.0%        379        17.1        (67)       (3.0)       (0.1)      (0.8)       2.2
2009                 451           20.3      15.0%        383        17.2        (68)       (3.0)       (0.1)      (0.8)       2.2
2010                 455           20.5      15.0%        387        17.4        (68)       (3.1)      (0.1)       (0.8)       2.2
2011                 460           20.7      15.0%        391        17.6        (69)       (3.1)       (0.1)      (0.8)        2.2
2012                 464           20.9      15.0%        395        17.8        (70)       (3.1)       (0.1)      (0.8)        2.3
2013                 469           21.1      15.0%        399        17.9        (70)       (3.2)       (0-1)      (0.8)        2.3
2014                 474           21.3      15.0%        403        18.1        (71)       (3.2)       (0.1)      (0.8)       2.3
2015                 479           21.5      15.0%        407         18.3       (72)       (3.2)       (0-1)      (0.8)        2.3
2016                 483           21.8      15.0%        411         18.5       (73)       (3.3)       (0.1)      (0.6)       2.3
2017                 488           22.0      15.0%        415        18.7        (73)       (3.3)       (0.1)      (0.8)       2.4
2018                 493           22.2      15.0%        419         18.9       (74)       (3.3)       (0.1)      (0.8)        2.4
2019                 498           22.4      15.0%        424         19.1       (75)       (3.4)       (0.1)      (0.8)       2.4
2020                 503           22.6      15.0%        428         19.3       (t75)      (3.4)       (0.1)      (0.8)       2.5



- 124 -
Annex 6.1
Page 7
ECONOMIC ANALVWS                               Ese Case
Az.rbalijn Gas System Rehabilitaton Projct
Industral Meters - Replament
Capitl Coat -                  4.6 milion US$
Construction Cosd Proll
Y"r I       0.0%
Yer 2       1.1%
Yer 3      39.2%
Yewr 4     3123%
Yer 5      26.3%                             100.0%
Assumptin:
m,out Project          Km Poject
Annual Sales           nion m3          1,302
Non-Technial Los        percent          2.5%                   0.0%
Conservation Impa       perent           0.0%                   3.0% 1.5% conatsvatbn hM 10% undsrr-oadg, 1.S% s*c 10% mters are b*en.
Economi Vak lof Gs                 S   48.00 per MCM
Consume Surpku Loss   percent          2S.00%             Beneftsxduce by 25% due to l   of consurner urpu s'
Incr. Metr O&M         $mnontyr                      -   Repacs .xlstg OlAf cosb.
MRR          21.1%
Captl       Cons.      Cons.     Conev.       Cons.       Cons.   Net Change Net Change Incrmntal  Consumer          Net
Cost    No Projec   No Project   Impact   VYUh Project Wth Projed    Cons.      Cons.       O&M       Surplus     Beneb
Year     ($nmllons)    mmcm    (Smulons)       %         mmcm    (Smilonc)    mmcm    (Smumns)  (Smilbons)  (SNons)  (Smuons)
1996          -     1.302          68.6       0.0%       1302        68.6          0                                0.0 -
1997       (01)    1.294          S8.2       0.0%        1294        56.2          0           -                    0.0       (0.1)
1998       (1.9)    1,254         56.4       0.0%        1254        56.4          0           -          -         0.0       (1.9)
1999       (1.5)    1,216          64.7      0.0%        1216        54.7          0           -          -         0.0       (1.5)
2000       (1.4)    1,179          53.1       1.2%       1165        52.4        (14)       (0.5)         -        (0.2)       (0.9)
2001                1,191          53.6       2.2%       1165        52.4        (25)       (1.2)         -        (0.3)       0.9
2002                1,203          54.2       3.0%       1167        52.5        (M         (1.6)         -        (0.4)        1.2
2003                1.215          54.7       3.0%       1179        63.0        (35)       (1.6)         -        (0.4)       1.2
2004                1,227         56.2        3.0%       1190        53.6        (37)       (1.7)         -        (0.4)        1.2
2006                1.239         S6.8        3.0%       1202        54.1        (37)       (1.7)         -        (0.4)        1.3
2006                1,262         56.3        3.0%       1214        54.6        (38)       (1.7)         -        (0.4)        1.3
2007                1,264          56.9       3.0%       1226       56.2         (38)       (1.7)         -        (0.4)        1.3
2008                1,277          67.5       3.0%       1239       56.8         (38)       (1.7)         -        (0.4)        1.3
2009                1,290          68.0       3.0%       1251        56.3        (39)       (1.7)         -        (0.4)        1.3
2010                1,303          S6.6       3.0%       1264        56.9        (39)       (1.8)         -        (0.4)        1.3
2011                1,316          59.2       3.0%       1276        67.4        (39)       (1.8)         -        (0.4)        1.3
2012                1,329          59.8       3.0%       1289       56.0         (40)       (1.8)         -        (0.4)        1.3
2013                1,342          W0A        3.0%       1302        58.6        (40)       (1.8)         -        (0.5)        1.4
2014                1,356          61.0       3.0%       1316        592         (41)       (1.8)         -        (0.5)        1.4
2015                1,370          61.6       3.0%       1329        59.8        (41)       (1.8)         -        (0.6)        1.4
2016                1,383          82.3       3.0%       1342        80.4        (42)       (1.9)         -        (0.6)        1.4
2017                1,397          62.9       3.0%       1356        61.0        (42)       (1-9)         -        (0.6)        1.4
2016                1.411          63.5       3.0%       1389        61.6        (42)       (1-9)         -        (0-5)        1.4
2019                1,426          64.2       3.0%       1383        02.2        (43)       (1-9)         -        (0t.)       1.4
2020                1,440          64.8       3.0%       1397        62.9        (43)       (1i)          -        (0.-)        1.6



- 125 -
Annex 6.1
Page 8
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                             Base Case
Azerbaijan Gas System Rehabilitation Project
City Gate Instrumentation
Capital Cost -                 2.3 million USS
Construction Cost Profile
Year 1      0.0%
Year 2     35.2%
Year 3     33.8%
Year 4     31.0%
Year 5      0.0%                             100.0%
Assumptions:
VWlthout ProJect        f7th ProJect
Current Annual Sales   million m3       6,071
Non-Technical Losses    percent           10%                   8.0%
Conservation Impact     percent            0%                    1.5%
Economic Value of Gas              $   45.00 per MCM
Consumer Surplus Loss   percent        25.00%             Benefits reduced by 25% due to '7oss of consumer surplus"
Incr. Meter O&M        $millionlyr                    -   Replaces existing O&M costs.
EIRR         74.3%
Capilal     Cons.      Cons.     Conserv.     Cons.       Cons.   Net Change Net Change Incremental  Consumer        Net
Cost     No Project  No Project   Impact  WVth Project With Project   Cons.     Cons.       O&M       Surplus     Benetis
Year     (Smillions)   (mmcm)   ($millions)    %         mmcm    ($millions)    mmcm    (Smillions)  (Smillions)  (Smillions)  (Smillions)
1996          -       6071        273.2      0.0%        6071       273.2          0           -          -         0.0
1997       (0.8)      5996        269.8      0.0%        5996       269.8          0           -          -         0.0       (0.8)
1998       (0.8)      5924        266.6      0.0%        5924       266.6          0           -          -         0.0       (0.8)
1999       (0.7)      5941        267.3      0.5%        5910       265.9        (31)       (1.4)         -        (0.4)       0.3
2000          -        5958       268.1       1.0%       5896       265.3        (62)       (2.8)         -        (0.7)       2.1
2001                   5975       268.9       1.5%       5885       264.8        (90)       (4.0)         -        (1.0)        3.0
2002                   5992       269.6       1.5%       5902       265.6        (90)       (4.0)         -        (1.0)        3.0
2003                   6010       270.5       1.5%       5920       266.4        (90)       (4.1)         -        (1.0)        3.0
2004                   6028       271.3       1.5%       5938       267.2        (90)       (4.1)         -        (1.0)       3.1
2005                   6046       272.1       1.5%       5955       268.0        (91)       (4.1)         -        (1.0)        3.1
2006                   6064       272.9       1.5%       5973       268.8        (91)       (4.1)         -        (1.0)        3.1
2007                   6082       273.7       1.5%       5991       269.6        (91)       (4.1)         -        (1.0)        3.1
2008                   6100       274.5       1.5%       6009       270.4        (92)       (4.1)         -        (1.0)        3.1
2009                   6119       275.4       1.5%       6027       271.2        (92)       (4.1)         -        (1.0)       3.1
2010                   6138       276.2       1.5%       6046       272.1        (92)       (4.1)         -        (1.0)        3.1
2011                   6200       279.0       1.5%       6107       274.8        (93)       (4.2)         -        (1.0)        3.1
2012                   6262       281.8       1.5%       6168       277.6        (94)       (4.2)         -        (1.1)        3.2
2013                   6325       284.6       1.5%       6230       280.4        (95)       (4.3)         -        (1.1)       3.2
2014                   6389       287.5       1.5%       6293       283.2        (96)       (4.3)         -        (1.1)       3.2
2015                   6454       290.4       1.5%       6357       286.1        (97)       (4.4)         -        (1.1)       3.3
2016                   6519       293.4       1.5%       6421       289.0        (98)       (4.4)         -        (1.1)       3.3
2017                   6584       296.3       1.5%       6485       291.8        (99)       (4.4)         -        (1.1)       3.3
2018                   6651       299.3       1.5%       6551       294.8       (100)       (4.5)         -        (1.1)       3.4
2019                   6718       302.3       1.5%       6617       297.8       (101)       (4.5)         -        (1.1)       3.4
2020                   6786       305.4       1.5%       6684       300.8       (102)       (4.6)         -        (1.1)       3.4



- 126 -
Annex 6.1
Page 9
Table 1
Azerbaijan Gas System Rehabilitation Project
Summary of Economic Returns                    Base Case($4&/MCM)
EIRR           46.9%                        NPV          $73.06 million
Capital Cost                                                 Net Benefds                         Total
Asset        New      Replacement   City Gate   Implementation      Asset         New      Replacement   Ciy Gate          Net
Preservation    Meters      Meters   Instrumentation   Assistance   Preservation    Meters       Meters   Instrumentation  Benefts
Year   (Smillions)   (Smillions)   (Smillions)    ($millions)  (Smillions)    ($millions)   ($millions)   (Smillions)    (Smillions)   (Smillions)
1996                        -                                       (0.2)                                                             (0.2)
1997        (2.2)         (0.1)        (0.1)         (0.8)          (0.5)         (2.2)        (0.1)        (0.1)          (0.8)      (3.7)
1998        (1.9)         (1.6)        (1.9)         (0.8)          (0.4)         (1.9)        (1.6)        (1.9)          (0.8)      (6.6)
1999        (1.4)         (1.5)        (1.5)         (0.7)          (0.2)         (1.4)        (1.5)        (1.5)          0.3       (4.2)
2000        (0.7)         (0.1)        (1.4)                                      (0.7)         0.9         (0.9)           2.1        1.3
2001                                                                               3.7          1.9          0.9            3.0       9.6
2002                                                                               6.6          2.0          1.2            3.0      12.9
2003                                                                               9.4          2.1          1.2            3.0      15.7
2004                                                                              12.3          2.1          1.2            3.1      18.6
2005                                                                              15.1       2.1           1.3            3.1      21.5
2006                                                                              15.4          2.1          1.3            3.1      21.9
2007                                                                              15.8          2.1          1.3            3.1      22.3
2008                                                                              16.2          2.2          1.3            3.1      22.7
2009                                                                              16.5          2.2          1.3           3.1       23.1
2010                                                                              16.9          2.2          1.3            3.1      23.5
2011           -            -            -              -                         17.2          2.2          1.3            3.1      23.9
2012                                                                             17.6           2.3          1.3            3.2      24.3
2013                                                                             17.9           2.3          1.4            3.2      24.8
2014                                                                              18.3          2.3          1.4            3.2      25.2
2015                                                                              18.6          2.3          1.4            3.3      25.6
2016                                                                              18.6          2.3          1.4            3.3      25.7
2017                                                                              18.6          2.4          1.4            3.3      25.8
2018                                                                              18.6          2.4          1.4            3.4      25.8
2019                                                                              18.6          2.4          1.4            3.4      25.9
2020t                                                                             18.6          2.5          1.5            3.4      26.0



- 127 -
Annex 6.1
Page 10
Table 2
Economic Rate of Retum Sensitivities
Asset           New         Replacement       City Gate        Total
Assumption             Preservation       Meters          Meters      Instrumentation    Project
Base Case                           53.4%           43.0%           21.1%          74.3%           46.9%
Demand response 50 %                53.4%           23.7%           10.4%           44.9%          39.8%
lower than Base Case
Effect of Cathodic Protection       30.5%           43.0%           21.1%          74.3%           34.9%
delayed 5 years
Low international oil prices -      52.5%           30.7%           14.4%           55.6%          41.7%
gas value S30/mcm
Capital costs 20 percent above      49.1%           37.1%           17.9%          65.4%           42.1%
Base Case
All of the above                    29.9%           12.6%           3.9%            28.2%          23.0%



- 128 -
Annex 7. 1
Page I
Azarbaycan Respubllkasini:n                        Repuiblic of Azerbaijan
13A. NAZIRI                                   PRIME MINIS1TER
Saki oh.. Lermontov k3l;.. es.  s t 0.  I.c rtnonlov, e-s
Leleks 142163 BAB,9K. fakq 929179, 923108.   Bakuj. st. J..crinontov, 08.
N9 34/20-3II                           ., I2 "       07      1996  i
nMCbMO r7O10 OJIJTHKE
F-we ,J>KoaHH J1IMMS,
BHue nlpe3;igeHT,
PerHoH EBpo nib H LIiCHTpaJ[bHOi1 A3Hni
Mewaypiapozasi AccoLluaumx Pa3BH-rTH
1818HStreet  r
Washington D.C., USA
KacaTenIl.o:  rIpoeKra BOCCTailoBJIeHHs ra3Bo1 CHcgreMbw
rlpaBi-iTenb6crBo A3ep6ailicaHa noi*HMaeT, MTO MewcAyiiapoxiax
AccouHaawin  Pa3BhTwSi npeanonIarae-r  npecoxcmTh   A3ep6arxI<a-iiy
KpealiT paBHLIR 20.2 MnH. zOrmapOB CUIA  Wn1I (HHaHcCipOBaHUa1
rlpoeXTa  BoccTrHoJnIe1Hsi  Fa3oBOA   CHCTeMbw.  B   3THXeX uzenx
I1paBHTeflbCTBo nOZATBepwaaeT CBOC iiamepeHHe BswnOnHHT1 ornpe;e-
ieIHIHbIe HaMMHaHiiR B 3xouoMmwecxOi nonJITHxe, Heo6xoaHMlme  R
yCTOA'iHBOrO-- pa3BHTHS  ra3oBOrO  CeXTOpa  B  paMKaX  pbiiomHHOH
3xOHOMHKH. BBHJXyY ICH3HeHHOrl BaxciHOcrn ra3OBOH  npOMbiwUjeHHOCTH
1i5s A3ep6aAfiaaHa IlpaBwrenbCTBo  cornacuio c TeM, iTO pc4opma
3XOHOMHlqeCxOA nOYTHTMKII B 3rOM no;xcex-Tope RBiSIeTcx npHOpHTexOM.
FIpaBreTlEbc-rBo  noaZTBepwzazT  caoe  HaMepeHHC  npe)fEnp"H.ITb  B
H1{aHpaTmailume  cpoxH cnea,yioLuic Meponp;iATHI:
(a)        llo=epwKaTb pa3BHTme MecrHoro npOH3Bo)AcTBa ra3a nyTeM
ocyu.RecTBJICHc   o63opa CaCTCMbI uei npoH3aoaMTeneAi ra3a,



-129-
Annex 7.1
Page 2
KOTOpIlA oyrpKtlCt *eC6OXOAX,,"OCrb HETBe rccmu-Lk lRA  p130ni-
TfHA ra13oBoH ripOMbLlEIt-JEeHocrI, iL TalK)KC  HeO6xogmocMO7b
rlpHBrre'IeHHA HiHOc-paHHmix  mHBcTUHRH )TUTTA ripoewKon
pa3BHT;tsi ra3OBOil CHCZ-rMbl;
(b)         06ecrieI-rb rIpHRAT14C rt 4yHKLHtIHtOtpOBa1He   Ha,lCX<cnlOk
iopfxviecKOH  H  peryumpyo-ouqc   6a3bw  iuTs 34eicrKTniroA
5ewrejlbiocrf1 Ui pa:3BwTrM  ra 3oioro cec-Topa B   A3Cp6aiR-
,Ia"He. rlogzroTOBXa Yoroit 6t3bt 6yAcT iacrlH     OCHOI3bI-
ua-rbCX tita pa6o-re, (D&THtHcHpyemo,R EC - TAC[IS;
(C)         rI0CpWKlTb 44.CKhBHhtie rnOCTaBvkJ cKmcxemHoro ra3a
(LPG) Hca mec-THbic iC HKCriOp.thibi pbHlcHX, ny-rem yL1pe Hpejrsr
oTresTeHmi A3ep"ra:3a rio paciipeaejiemjuo cx<H)ceKirioro U'a32
B KwlTcCTBC OTgTLtoHk KOMrtaMHHU Ui- nplBaT;I13pO3af-1R 3TOU
KOMrflHVT;l TdaKHM o6pa3oM, i<oTopoe npHBsiCKeIo 6bI
3tia,ireJbHibIe MHCeCT!LxmU Hi3 mauec)KHhTX 3Dpy6CN(kHblX
icOMIIatmk, iOo=ep)1cmeBsar TeM spemeileM KOHtypeHTHbIe
ycJIosuB! pacrrpege-e1rrftsA cwHCx<eHHoro raua B A3ep6itfqxLaHc.
rlpal3wreJIbcrso 6yze-r nepfloAzPLcKOk [ KOiCcy7ITHTpOBaTLCS C
Accowuiawrtit  OTmoCrc.TjibHo  3TU4X  Hta'-Hai[iH   tI nlpHHpiMaTr   no
BHHMaH;(C mitHeHmC Accocmaumki rio Y1'mm rTpo6rreN%M.
MIcKpen-lTe Batux,/
ct . Kyruies
rlpeMBep - NIHHHc-rp
A3ep6aria;KcaiicKoM  Pecny6niiKH
, 



- 130 -
Annex 7.1
Page 3
34/20-I3I                                  I2          07
Mr. J.ohannes Linn
Vice Prcsident, Europe and Central Asia Region
INT' ERNATrONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCTATION
l8lS Street
Washington D.C., U.S.A
Dear Sirs:
Re: Gus Svsteln Rchabilitation Project
The Government of Azerbaijun understands that thle IntcrnationaI Dcvelop-ent
Association proposes to extcnd a credit of USS 20,2 million eqLiivalent to Azerbaijan to
finance a Gas System Rchabilication Projcct. Within this contcxt the Govern ment.confirms
its intention to undertake its certain policy initiatives necessary for the sustainable
devcEloment of the gLq .q-rtNr wichin a markct cco-nomy. rni view uC tLlh vitall lMportancz of'
the gas industry to A2erbaijan, the Go-vernmentt agrees that policy reform in this subsecror
is a priority. T'he Govern-ment confirms its intention to undertake, in the most timely
possiblc manner, the following actionis.
(,a) tO SUppott the development of domestic gas pLoduction by undertaking a review of
the producer pricing system for gas, which addresses the in-vestment ne_ds of gais
developmcnt and also the nccd tc actract foreign investnmen. to gas developnient
projects;
(b) to ensure the adoption and cnforccnient of a sound legal and iegulatoVy framework
for the cfficient operation and developmenit of the gas sub-sector within Azerbaijan.
The preparation of thlis framework will be bklsed in part on work to be undertaken
with Eu-TrACIS financing;
(C) tO sUpport the cfficient supply ot liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) to do-mestic and
cxport markets by establishing the LIG distribution branch ot'Azerigaz as a
separ;ite company, and privatizing it in as manncr which attracts significant
investment from a qutalified foreign conmpany, while maiintainiing competitive
corLdicions for LPG distribution in Azerbaijan.
Th,e Government will consult from tisne to time with AssociaLtion regard-ing the
implementation of thcse policies, and will take into account the Associotion's views on these
issues.
Sincerely          Z
F. Guliev









50'                                                               510
AZERBAIJAN
OIL AND GAS FIELDS
GAS FIELDS
APSHERON
OIL FIELDS
*     REFINERIES
RIVERS
DARWIN
MASH rTAGI-BUZOVNY                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SURAKHANY
BALAKHANY-SABUNCHI-RAMAWY                                            ARTEM
BIBI EYBAT                                                                          GUNESHU
KARADAG                                                                      OIL ROCKS
CHIRAG
s                               v  ~~~~~~~~~BAKHAR
DUVANNYI                     
-40                                                                                                                                                    AZERI                                  4'
MISHOVDAG                ALIATY                                                        SHAK DANIZ                                                                          KAPAZ
STRUCTURE
ULLA DANIZ
IKYUROVDAG                                           U                                                                                                               RUSSIAN
FEDERATION
This map was produced
KYURSANGYA                                                                                                  byf the Map Design Unit
of The World Bank.'.                                        KAZAKSTAN
The boundaries, calors,            _ERI
KARABAGLY                                                                                                                denominations and any9EORGIA
0                              25                                50            other information shown
MILES5imply, on t    part of                                                                                              ARE\AZERBA JA.
The Wanld Bank Group,                   1<.        -
>                                    KILOMETERS  1I1                                     1        I                               status of any territory,     TI
c   DUROVDAG                        ~         ~        ~~~~0 25            50                 75or any endorsement                                             IAICRF           TURKMENISTANJ
or acceptance of such                    ISLAMIC REP                 KA
boundaries.                               OF IRAN                      '
5o"                                                               51"                       IRAQ






IeRD 27312
,5                                                                                                                                          30-
T.S,,                                 RUSSIAN
G   E  0   R  G   I A                -t chien                       FEDERATION                IAo,0Ko 2;\fi/                                                           AZERBAIJAN
G E    R G IAFEDEolo \RATION                                         Kd                                                   NATURAL GAS SYSTEM
N                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EVSTTN GAS PWEUNE
( R 2  \       (.rN,                                 X        Kzho
ro rb 11Nu >>>_ r'\ >,   '\  \ > \   Koki,,  >  --  -. -  Hc hneo.                                        *   COMPRESSOR STATIONS
K.kh . .^   >                           ub>-                                                                  UNDERCGROUND GAS STORAGE
vo-IsAhhchz         -'-'   >            S    <    XRSheb         s-_   SJ                          \De      ch.Xr  GAS POCESSING PLANT
4k f.                                                                                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED CMES
NAROVINCE CAPITALS
>^o   ? ~~~~~~~\                     \  \       _~~~~~~Gabala                           5S'...!   NATckALCAllrAE
ro DUilboh    .4ahuuz           '-- -                                      _lsmulily                         lax - \\                                           -   MAIN ROADS
) Sbomkho J ; ff . .1eS - M\' ~                                                                                                                    RAILROADS
-/--/S RrVERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
~~  *g~v.o.o              DShkepono, l  euirt >   
N...,.y ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~,~p.bA.cA.eMoO,0o,
ARMENIA       B.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~USA
-oiX  (_   \  Ag hdo;ghhdb.d; -r~                   Ebt
< < 0 C A S P I A N   S E A
ISlAMIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 REUBI                                                                                            REP IRA  IRQ   ISAI REP ea  RpAN 
4                                                                                                                    .            I.                                                                                         I_-z
fssxv s;swr2F    IA                                                                                                                                                                                                   S~IRFO  A
Kh~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Is  9






IBRD 27813
\   \                                                                .49   5                                                                 50 00                                                                     50:15                         UKRAINE      ,                                 KU2A EA N
AZERBAIJAN                                                                                                                                     RU5SIAN
APSHERON PENINSULA                                                                                                                                       FEDERATION
HIGH PRESSURE GAS PIPELINES & GAS PRESSURE REDUCING AND METERING STATIONS                                                                                                            *5:
GEORGIAI   .-Se7 .
- \Q  \  . '  s  < '   - -             C  A  S , I  A  N                                  T.k U
T'UR KE I              ".
''  JSYRIAN ABb RE ' 2\IRAQ-   ISLAMIC REP OF IRAN
4030                                                                                      *o1 0300
r r                    2                                                                                                               OTHER ROADS
RAILROADS
-\  S   P   I  A    N               BUILT-UGAS PEAREASI
(                  /          /                              GAS PRESSURE REDUCING AND METERING STATIONS
GREEN SPACES
I KHRADAG        I2 BINAGADY                 23 ZARRATI I                                 E   A
2 KETYROALAN     13 KIDEELY-KNOT             24 -ZARRAT 9                             S E                                       AIRPORT
3 DYGHAKH        I4 SECTION 30               25 - NARDARAN
l4 UZOYNA        I5 XOTLY                    26 ESASHTAGI                                                                       RVERS
5 POWER STATION  1 6KARACHUKHUR              27- BINA
6 SU-GAYIT    1, 8OX SHOR  28 KAIA                                                              B~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  AKU DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
B SEATEOR I       19 aPORK PRODRJCTION PEANr  29 - ZYPYA
9 B99 SNE ITE    I 6YKEE                    D o 3  NGDU GUM ADA5Y                                                      -       B -  BAKU ADMINISTRATIVE AREA SOUNDARIES                                0    7   4   4   8   ID KILOMETERS
IDGANLY G6t      20 0139 ADASY
I  GANLY GOL      2  SURAKHANI                                                                                           _       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES INSETJ
4P45                                                                     50'00                                                                    5015
JUNE i99q



I
i
i
i
i
i
i






IMAGING
Report No:     15378 AZ
Type: SAR



