                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No.:36124




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT


                             AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC


                  GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                 (CREDIT 2923-AZ)



                                   May 26,2006




Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Group
Independent Evaluation Group

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Azerbaijanian Manat (AZM)

2005 (throu Sep)                                         Manat
2004                                                     Manat
2003                                                     Manat
2002                                                     Manat
2001                                                     Manat
2000                                                     Manat
1999                                                     Manat
1998                                                     Manat
1997                                                     Manat
1996                                                     Manat



Abbreviations and Acronyms

BCM                       Billion Cubic Meter
CAS                       Country Assistance Strategy
CP                        Cathodic Protection
ERR                       Economic Rate of Return
FDI                       Foreign Direct Investment
GDP                       Gross Domestic Product
IBRD                      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                       Implenlentation Completion Report
IDA                       International Development Association
JSC                       Joint Stock Company
MIE                       Ministry of Industry and Energy
IEG                       Independent Evaluation Group
PPAR                      Project Performance Assessment Report
SAR                       Staff Appraisal Report
SOCAR                     State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic




Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1-December 31




Director-General, Evaluation                              : Mr. Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation, World Bank             : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Division: Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                             : Mr. Fernando Manibog

   IEG Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report

       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank'swork is producingthe
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures throughthe
disseminationof lessons drawnfrom experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses about 25 percent of the
Bank's lending operations. Inselectingoperations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative,
large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive
Directors or Bank management have requestedassessments;and thosethat are likelyto generate important lessons.
The projects,topics, and analyticalapproaches selected for assessment support largerevaluation studies.

      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by IEG. To prepare
PPARs, IEG staff examine project files and other documents, interviewoperational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
IEG studies.

       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEG are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the IEG website:
http://worldbank.org/oed).
       Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.

       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.

       Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.

       Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.

       InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improvesthe ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resourcesthrough: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictabilityof institutional arrangements andlor (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.

       Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.

       Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (includingensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.

       Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


Contents

Principal Ratings        ................................................................................................................v

Key Staff Responsible            ........................................................................................................v
                                                                                                                                         ..
Preface  ..............................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                       v11


Summary     ...........................................................................................................................ix

1 Country and SectorBackground
 .                                                        ................................................................................1

        The Role of the Bank and Previous Operations in the Sector..................................2

2 The Project
 .                    ...................................................................................................................3

        Concept. Objectives. and Design .............................................................................3

        Components and Implementation ............................................................................4

        Quality at Entry........................................................................................................5

        Project Results .........................................................................................................7

                   Relevance.....................................................................................................        7
                   Efficacy........................................................................................................      7
                   Efficiency..................................................................................................... 9
                   Outcome..................................................................................................... 10
                   Institutional Development Impact..............................................................                       10
                                   . .
                   Sustainablhty..............................................................................................          11
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................11

        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................12

3 Lessons Learned
 .                            .........................................................................................................13

Annex A    .Basic     Data Sheet         ..............................................................................................15

Annex B Project Components.Allocated Costs and Actual Disbursements
          .                                                                                                                 .............17

Annex C    .Borrower          Comments            ......................................................................................19




This report was prepared by Mohammad Farhandi (Consultant). who assessed the project in April 2005.
The report was edited by WilliamHurlbut. and Helen Phillip provided adrmnistrativesupport.


Principal Ratings

                                        ICR *                    ICR Review *
                                                                        --                             PPAR
                                                                                                                      -
Outcome                             Unsatisfactory                 Moderately                      Moderately
                                                                  Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                          Likely                         Likely                          Likely
Institutional Development              Modest                         Modest                          Modest
Impact
Bank Performance                    Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory


* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.
The ICR Review is an intermediate Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) product that seeks to independently verify the
findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible

Project                            Task ManagedLeader                  Division Chief/             Country Director
                                                                       Sector Director
                                                                 -.                                                  -
  Appraisal                          Michael Levitsky &                Jonathan Brown                Yukon Huang
                                      Margaret Wilson

  Completion                           William Porter                      H. Razavi             D. Dowsett-Coirolo


Preface


       This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Azerbaijan Gas
System Rehabilitation Project. An IDA credit of SDR14.1 million ($20.2 million
equivalent) was approved for the project on September 19, 1996;the project became
effective March 19, 1997. The credit closed on June 30, 2003, and SDR 1.34million
($1.88 million equivalent) was cancelled.

       The PPAR presents the findings of a mission to Azerbaijan in April 2005 by the
World Bank Independent Evaluation Group (IEG). The mission met with officials of the
State Gas Company (Azerigas), State Oil Company of the Azerbaijan Republic
(SOCAR), Ministry of Industry and Energy (MIE), Ministry of Economic Development
(MED), as well as with private oil and gas companies and Bank Country Office staff. The
cooperation and assistance of those individuals is gratefully acknowledged.

       The oil and gas sectors are critical to Azerbaijan's economy and are expected to
continue to be so for the medium term. Given their importance and the limited capacity of
the energy sector entities, an assessment was considered important in order to evaluate
the outcomes and sustainability of projects in the two sectors to draw lessons from the
experience. Concurrently with this PPAR, IEG also assessed the Petroleum Technical
Assistaiice project.

       The PPAR draws on the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 15378-AZ of August 2,
1996),the Implementation Completion Report (No. 27439 of April 9,2004), and other
documents related to the project.

       Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to the
government officials and agencies for their review and comments. Comments were taken
into account and attached as Annex C.


Summary

        Oil and gas are crucial to Azerbaijan's economy and are expected to remain so
over the medium term. Oil production is important for export revenues and as a source of
economic growth. And the efficiency of the gas sector is a vital issue for the economy,
since gas meets over 60 percent of the country's energy needs.

        Azerbaijan's economy began a turnaround in 1995,when a decline in oil
production was reversed, leading to a resumption of oil exports in 1997.Domestic gas
production continued to decline, however, because most of the gas was coming from
existing, nearly depleted fields. Gas supplywas further constrained by weaknesses in
infrastructure to transmit the gas from offshore fields to land and to distribute it to
customers. To meet demand, the governmentwas relying on imported gas from
Turkmenistan, but imports were stopped in 1997 due to foreign exchange constraints and
did not resume until 2001.

        The project concept arose from a 1993Energy Sector Review carried out by the
Balk, and from a technical assistance grant Japan provided to the government to help
prioritize transmission and distribution. Efficiency improvements were to be achieved by
(a) replacing and rehabilitating malfunctioning meters and instruments and leaking
pipelines, and (b) reducing the distortion in gas prices, improving the collection rate, and
supporting the commercialization of Azerigas (the state-owned utility) by establishing a
satisfactory corporate, regulatory, and financial environment.

        The project consisted of four components, originally estimated to cost $24.6
million. At project closure, a total of about $17 million had been disbursed, over 88
percent of which was for procurement of meters, cathodic protection equipment, coating
materials and pipeline, and gas analysis equipment. The balance was disbursed for the
procurenleiit of consulting services to help Azerigas with project implementation and to
fund audits of Azerigas finances.

        The project concept and objectives were consistent with the CAS, but project
quality at entry suffered from several shortcomings. The two most important of these
were (a) the inclusion of too many policy conditions, many of which the Bank had no
leverage to enforce, and (b) the pricing conditions, which focused on the finances of the
gas utility, without providing the incentives for improving the operational efficiency of
the company and without due consideration to an economic pricing framework.

        Although the project achieved most of its physical objectives, the principal
objective-to   enhance the efficiency of the sector-was    only partially achieved. The
more efficient use of gas would require an economically efficient pricing structure and a
sound financial framework for the gas utility. Until early 2005, the price of gas was
below the level needed to fully recover costs, and the bill collection rate was still only
about 50 percent. The overall relevaiice of the project's objective is rated as modest given
the limited relevance of the project's objective to the country's weak institutional
capacity. The project's efficiency was also modest consideriiigits limited contribution to
enhancing the financial efficiency of the gas sector as a whole. Accordingly, project

outcome is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. Institutional development impact was also
modest, considering that the only activity aimed at directly supporting capacity building
(i.e., the training of Azerigas staff) was canceled.

         The project benefits will nevertheless likely be sustained given (i) the
government's recent action to raise gas prices to the level of full cost recovery, and (ii)
the inevitable need for a more commercial operation of the gas sector to foster private
sector investment. The Bank's performance during the preparation of the project was
unsatisfactory considering that quality at entry was poor. While the Bank's performance
during supervision was satisfactory, its overall performance is rated unsatisfactory
considering the negative impact poor quality at entry had on project performance. The
implementing agency's performance was satisfactory,but the borrower's overall
performance was unsatisfactory as the government did not provide the support needed to
raise tariffs and reduce arrears.

         The project experience offers three lessons:

         When a policy action is stipulated as a loan condition, conditionality needs to be
         grounded in realistic, dated covenants and supplemented with monitorable
         performance indicators to ensure implementation.

         Gas pricing ought to extend beyond the goal of achieving financial viability for
         the gas utility and move toward economic energy pricing based on opportunity
         cost principles, including an appropriate pricing structure in relation to alternative
         fuels.

         The Bank needs to exercise flexibility within the procurement guidelines
         (including the provision of technical assistance for procurement) to resolve
         procurement issues, particularly in countries with weak institutional capacity and
         where such issues concern components whose implementation is crucial to
         achieving development objectives and increasing institutional capabilities.




                                                                           Vinod Thomas
                                                                          Director-General
                                                                              Evaluation

1.       Country and Sector Background

1.1         Azerbaijan's economy began a turnaround in 1995 and the recovery was
progressing well by the time the credit became effective in 1997. Inflation had been
reduced from about 400 percent in 1995to 4 percent in 1997 and the budget deficit fell
from about 13percent of GDP to less than 2 percent during the period. The economic
recovery resulted from tightened macroeconomic policies, but also from increased oil
production. The first hydrocarbon production sharing agreement was signed in 1994. As
oil exports began in 1997,the recovery accelerated and GDP grew at an average of 9
percent per year between 1997 and 2002 (i.e., during the iniplementation of the project).
This growth was led by a surge of foreign direct investment (FDI) mainly in the oil
sector, and the resulting rise in oil exports. During this period, more than 20 additional
production sharing agreements were signed, including one for the large Shah Deniz gas
field.

1.2         While the focus on increased oil and gas production was in line with Bank's
first full CAS,' by credit effectiveness in early 1997, growth, although impressive, was
uneven, and in the Bank's view, the governmentneeded to focus on establishing an
appropriate institutional and policy framework aiming at good governance and equitable
development, to ensure sustainable broad-based g r ~ w t h . ~

1.3         To address this concern, the strategy adopted by the 1999CAS (ReportNo.
19586-AZ)focused on strengthening the regulatory and business environments.
Nonetheless, the priority to increase hydrocarbon production remained unchanged, and
continued in the 2003 CAS, which focused 011growth beyond the oil sector but also
highlighted the need to increase oil and gas production and to efficiently manage the
windfall (oil still represents 70 percent of the country's total exports and 50 percent of its
budget revenue, or about one-third of GDP from 1997to 2002).

1.4         The situation in the gas sector was different in that domestic gas production
continued to decline because most of the gas was coming from existing, nearly depleted
fields. Gas production declined from 6.3 billion cubic meters (bcm) in 1995to 4.8 bcm in
2003. Considering that natural gas is the main domestic fuel and meets over 60 percent of
the country's total energy requirements, Azerbaijan has to import gas at an average of 4
bcm per year to meet its domestic needs (despite having proven reserves of about 30
trillion cubic feet, and with significantlyhigher potential reserves). Gas imports are
expected to continue until the new Shah Deniz field comes on stream on 2006.

1.5         Gas supply was further constrained because the related infrastructure was in
poor condition-many         parts of the pipeline network were severely corroded, residential
consumption was largely unmetered, and meters in many of the industrial and large


1.Azerbaijan's first full CAS was in 1996 (Report No. 15948-AZ),and covered the period which coincided
with the lending period of the Project. The private sector-led growth was one of the four focus areas of the
CAS, and concern over delay in oil export was flagged as one of the major risks to recovery.

2. This was also confirmed by OED's Azerbaijan Country Assistance Evaluation (Report no. 21459, dated
November 30, 2000), concluding that while the economy had shown strength since 1996,this growth has
come mainly from the oil sector.

commercial installations as well as at the city gate stations were either lacking or
malfunctioning. Consequently, technical and non-technical losses were high (about 15
percent).

1.6         Further, until recently the gas prices were below the level of cost recovery
which had a severe impact on the finances of Azerigas. As a result of a low gas selling
price, particularly to residential consumers, and large arrears owed to Azerigas (mostly
by state-owned enterprises), new investment in the gas sector had been postponed.


The Role of the Bank and Previous Operations in the Sector

1.7         Azerbaijan became independent in 1991 andjoined the Bank in September
1992. Prior to this project, the Bank had two energy sector activities in Azerbaijan. In
1993,it carried out the first review of the sector under the Energy Sector Review (para.
2.I), and in 1995 the Bank approved its first lending for -thesector (and for the country),
the Petroleum Technical Assistance Project. The Petroleum Technical Assistance Project
had been approved by the Bank together with Azerbaijan's first limited CAS. The Gas
System Rehabilitation Project was approved by the Bank together with the country's first
full CAS (Report No. 15948-AZof August 27, 1966).


Box 1. The key conclusions and recommendations of the Energy Sector Review, as they
relate to the gas sector, are:

        Greater emphasize should be given to the natural gas sub-sector, as this is the main
        fuel used in the domestic market. Improvement in gas usage and exploitation should
        be a key aim, so as to reduce the rising burden of gas imports.

        Energy prices should be raised towards economic levels, according to a structured
        program ofprice increases. The aim should be to raise energy prices to economic
        levels, or international levels where appropriate, as rapidly aspossible, conceivably
        within oneyear of the implementation of an economic stabilization program. This
        program should take account of the social and economic impact ofprice rises.

        The Government should establish an effective energy agency responsiblefor energy
        policy making and implementation. Such an agency, or Energy Ministry, should be
        small but capable ofproviding leadership in nationalpolicy and in energy sector
        relations withforeign Governments and companies. Regulatory agencies should be
        set upfor oil licensing andfor gas andpower utilities, which would work in a
        transparent manner and allow efficientfunctioning of the entities under their control.

        The integrated energy companies in oil, gas andpower need to develop along
        commercial lines. Clear commercial interfaces need to be established between the
        different stages of energy supply, which reflect the economics of different business
        units. Management andfinancial systems need to be strengthened, and staff trained
        in modern business practices.

2.       The Project

Concept, Objectives, and Design

2.1         The project's original concept arose from the 1993 Energy Sector Review
(Report No. 12061-AZ).The main conclusions of the review with respect to the gas sub-
sector were the need for more efficient supply and use of this resource and the need to
increase domestic gas production to reduce gas imports and lessen the burden on the
economy. Some of the measures recommended included reducing gas flaring and losses
in the transmission and distribution network, improving end-use efficiency by installing
meters, and addressing sectoral issues such as the low price of gas and absence of
regulation (see box 1).The project concept was hrther expanded in 1993when the
Japanese government provided a grant of $1 million to help Azerbaijan prioritize gas
sector investment needs.

2.2         The original objectives of the project were to (a) promote more efficient use of
gas and reduce non-technical losses by expanding and upgrading gas metering at major
customers and city gate stations; (b) improve physical accounting for gas and encourage
an improved commercial basis for gas trading through upgrading of gas measurement; (c)
ensure the efficient operation and preserve the value of the existing pipeline assets
through investment in cathodic protection, gas analysis, and leak detection equipment;
and (d) support the commercialization of Azerigas and m h e r development of the sector
through technical assistance, training programs, and the acquisition of niodern office
equipment. The related policy agenda focused on: (a) establishing a satisfactory
corporate, regulatory, and financial environment to support the commercializatio~iof
Azerigas; and (b) reducing distortions in gas pricing to bring prices towards economic
levels through pricing refornis, supplementedby metering for residential customers.

2.3         The thrust of the project objectives was consistent with the CAS. One of the
four key areas that was the focus of the 1996 CAS was to establish a policy and
institutional framework conducive to efficient and equitableprivate sector-led sustainable
growth. The Gas System Rehabilitation Project had intended to support refornis
(corporatization of the utility, development of a regulatory framework, and tariff reform)
and rehabilitate the dilapidated gas system.

2.4         Considering that upstream gas activities (including production) were the
responsibility of SOCAR: the Japan technical assistance focused on the gas transmission
and distribution network. The entire network was in a poor state of repair with outdated
metering equipment and severe corrosionproblems, which resulted in high technical and
non-technical losses. Thus, the Japan grant provided the basis for the project's design by
identifying areas in which to reduce the high gas losses, improve the efficiency of use,
and lower the high cost of maintaining the network's operational integrity.




              -


3. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy was established in August 2001 and subsequentlywas replaced by the
Ministry of Industry and Energy in December 2004.

Components and Implementation

2.5          The project as originally envisioned was based on a $100 million ZBRD loan.
However, when it was concludedthat Azerbaijan qualified for IDA credit, the project
was downsized to use IDA resources. The project was downsizedby selecting only those
components that would have an early impact on the financialrecovery of Azerigas.

2.6          The project's total cost was estimated at $24.6 million, with a base case cost of
$19.6 million. From the original credit amount of $20.2 million equivalent (SDR14.3
milli~n),~about $1.88 million was cancelled.From the total disbursed amount of $17
million, $15 million was disbmsed for procuremelit of goods and $2 million for
procurement of consultants.The project had four components (see Annex B).

             a)   Metering. This component, about 56 percent ($11million) of the project's
                  base cost, was to procure meters (rotary, flow, turbine, orifice, and
                   diaphragm-type)to replace existing meters that were malhnctioning or to
                  be installed where none existed at city gate stations and at industrial and
                   large commercialplants. Most of these meters (2,170) have been installed,
                  with the industrial and large commercial consumersrepresenting about
                  three-quartersof the installedmeters. About 120diaphragm-typemeters
                  have not been installed yet, mainly because the industries for which the
                  meters were intended are currently inactive. The associated equipment for
                  meter testing and installation has also been purchased and is in operation.
                  In addition, about 55,000household meters have been purchased, using
                  the credit savingsresulting from the appreciation of the SDR relative to
                  the dollar. Approximately 34,000 of these meters have been installed.

                  A total of about $9.0million has been disbursed under this component, 41
                  percent for rotary meters, 27 percent for diaphragm meters, 24 percent for
                   flow meters, and the balance for the orifice and turbine meters as well as
                   for meter testing and installation equipment.


         b)        Cathodic Protection (CP). This component, about 24 percent ($4.8
                  million) of the project base cost, was to procure cathodic protection
                  equipment including 233 CP stations and 33 current drainage stations,
                  coated pipes, and regular pipes. The purpose of this equipment and
                  material was to replace existing coated gas pipelines that have been badly
                  corroded or to enhancethe protection of existing line coatings against
                   hture corrosion. A total of about $5.01 million was disbursedunder this
                  component, including $3.0million for the coatedpipelines, $1.5 million
                  for the CP equipment, and $0.6 million for regular pipelines.


         c)       Gas Analysis Equipment. This component, 7 percent ($1.4 million) of the
                  project's base cost, was intended to procure gas leak detection equipment
                  ($0.42million), gas quality analysis equipment ($0.56 million), and
                  computer software and hardware for network modeling ($0.42 million).

4. The final credit amount was about $21 million, as the result of appreciationof the SDR.

                The gas leak detection and gas quality analysis equipment have been
                purchased and are in operation (for a total of about $1.06 million). The
                computer software and hardware were not procured because the lowest
                evaluated bidder was rejected by the Bank due to inadequatetechnical
                capacity.


        d)      Azerigas CorporatizationSupport.This component, 12percent ($2.4
                million) of the project's base cost, was to provide consultancy servicesto
                assist in project implementation($1.4 million), training to Azerigas staff
                ($0.250 million), and financethe cost of office equipment and other
                provisions to help with the commercializationof Azerigas ($750 million).
                Most of this componentwas not implemented. The training activity, which
                was to familiarize Azerigas staff with modern commercialoperations such
                as planning, budgeting, finance, and accounting, was not implemented-
                because (accordingto the officials)the Bank advised Azerigas that
                training abroad was not permitted under the Bank guidelines. From about
                $2 million disbursed under this component, $1.6 million was used for
                consulting servicesto help Azerigas implement the project, $0.4 million
                was used for the audit services for 1999-2002,and $88,000was used to
                purchase office equipment and k i t u r e .


Quality at Entry

2.7        The technical aspects of the project's design were sound. They were based on a
relatively detailed evaluation carried out by the expert consultants funded by the Japanese
grant. However, the quality of the project at entry suffered from several shortcomings
that had an impact on the achievementof the project's main developmentalobjective-to
enhance the efficiency of the gas sector. Enhancing efficiency of the gas sector would
have required (in addition to improvementin the physical infrastructure and reduction in
the system gas losses) improvementin the financialposition of Azerigas through an
increase in the price of gas and through the reduction of arrears, as well as the
development of a legal and regulatory framework for the gas sector. None of these key
policy measures materialized duringproject implementation.

2.8        First, too many policy conditionswere attached to the project, for most of
which the Bank had no meaningful leverage. A few that had an agreed recourse, such as a
dated covenant, the timeframe was unrealistic.For example, in addition to the financial
covenants,the project had 6 policy conditions; (a) the preparation of a scheduleto extend
gas metering to cover all residential customers (some 750,000), (b) a scheduleto increase
the residential gas price to a level not less than the cost of gas purchased by Azerigas, (c)
a program financedby the borrower to mitigate the effect of gas price increases on low-
income household, (d) the corporatizationof Azerigas as ajoint stock company, (e) the
implementation of the action plan on gas payments (i.e., dealing with substantial arrears
of Azerigas), and (f) to maintain gas prices at (i) not less than their (then) current level in
real terms, and (ii) a level to ensure an average operatingmargin of at least $4 per
thousand cubic meters.

2.9           On conditions a, byand c, the borrower was to (1) submit plans by December
31, 1996 (or about three months after the approval of the project but three months before
effectiveness), (2) agree with the Bank on these plans by January 31, 1997, and (3)
subsequently take all measures to implement them. But there were no dated covenants for
the implementation of the measures, or even agreed performance indicators. It is not clear
what leverage the Bank had to ensure the implemeiitation of such policy objectives. With
regard to implementation of the action plan to reduce (and eventually eliminate) the
Azerigas arrears, it was unrealistic to expect that the collection rate would improve from
45 percent to 75 percent by June 30, 1997 (three months after project effectiveness), and
to 90 percent by December 31, 1997.The collection rate is still about 50 percent, the
lowest among all the countries in the Commonwealth of Independent States.'

2.10          Second, the pricing conditions seem to have been designed in isolation,
focusing only on the finances of Azerigas. The project has two pricing covenants: (i) to
adjust gas prices to ensure Azerigas has an average operating margin of $4 per thousand
cubic meters; and (ii) to increase the residential gas price to at least the level at which gas
is purchased (i.e., from SOCAR). While these covenants may have helped Azerigas to
address its precarious finances in the short term, the first covenant is a potential
disincentive for the company to operate efficiently-because                  the project is guaranteeing a
margin for Azerigas without the necessary qualifications for operational efficiency. The
second covenant may not be in line with economic pricing because if SOCAR, as the
supplier of gas, decides to increase the price to a higher level, the project requires
Azerigas to raise the price to that level, even though that level may be higher than the
opportunity cost of gas. Further, the issue of relative pricing, such as between the prices
of gas and electricity, gas and kerosene, and gas and LPG, need to be taken into account.

2.11          Finally, although the risks identified by the project were broadly consistent
with those in the CAS, the mitigation measures envisioned by the project were not
adequate. For example, the project correctly identified one of the risks being the extent of
the government's commitment to carry out the necessary reforms. However, the project
relied on weak factors to mitigate the risks. Namely, the mere initiation of critical
reforms before Board approval was accepted by the Bank as a valid mitigation measure;
or, because the role of gas in the economy was critical, it was assumed that the dialogue
between the Bank and the government will remain strong.

2.12          Given the country and sector conditions, it would have been unrealistic to
achieve these significant policy objectives under this single modest operation,
particularly considering the experience with the Petroleum Technical Assistance (PTA)
project (for example, under PTA project the Government agreed to pass a petroleum law
but did not implement it).

2.13          There was no formal review of quality at entry by the Quality Assurance
Group. However, this assessment rates theproject's quality at entry as unsatisfactory.


5. Accounts receivable is an issue, particularly in the energy sector, for social and political reasons.
Enterprises which provide essential services (i.e., district heating and water supply) are often unable to
collect in a timely manner. In turn, these enterprises are running substantial arrears among themselves and
with SOCAR.

Project Results


Relevance

2.14          The project's objectives aimed to help improve the efficiency of the gas use in
the country and, as the result, to benefit from its economic utilization and from reduction
in gas imports. This overarching objective continues to be consistent with the developing
priorities of the country and the Bank's country assistance strategy. Three of the four
strategic goals outlined in the latest CAS relates to the oil and gas sector. Namely,
helping the country to realize its oil and gas potential, improving access to services, and
managing the oil and gas windfalls. Improving the efficiency of gas supply and utilization
will increase the country's gas supply. Increased gas supply, together with more efficient
and reliable gas-related infrastructure,will provide more access to gas, particularly for
small households. The efficient and transparent management of oil and gas windfalls
could help to finance some gas infrastructure needs. A more efficient gas sector will help
with macro stability through gains in economic benefits associated with gas utilization
and through the reduction in gas imports. Thus the objectives for the most part continue
to be relevant to the current developmentpriorities at both the country and sectoral levels.
However, the project's demanding design was not highly relevant to the co~lntry'sweak
institutional capacity, particularly with respect to readiness to reform. Therefore, overall
this assessment rates theproject objectives as modestly relevant.


Efficacy

2.15          The physical objectives of the project were mostly achieved. However, the
objectives as a whole met with major shortcomings. The extent to which each objective
was achieved is discussed below.

      a) Promote more efficient use of gas and reduce non-technical losses bv expanding
           and upgrading gas metering at major customers and city gate stations. The
           industrial and large commercial customers, as well as the city gate stations have
           been furnished with functioningmeters. Except for some of the diaphragm-type
           industrial meters, virtually all meters have been installed (para. 2.6a).6
           Therefore, the achievement of physical objective of this component has been
           substantial. However, the more efficient use of gas-              the focal objective of the
           project-would        require using an efficiency pricing structure and establishing a
           viable financial system. Until early 2005, the average price of gas was below the
           level needed to hlly recover its costs (para. 2.22), and the collection rate was
           still at 47-50 percent. The resolution of these two issues was central to a more
           efficient use of gas and would have had a profound impact on improving the




6. As discussed in para 2.6a, substantialnumbers of residential meters have not been installed. However,
the installation of residential meters was not part of the original scope of work.

           finances of Azerigas.' Duringproject implementation,neither of the two was
           res01ved.~

           With regard to reduction in losses, there has been in fact some reduction in
           losses. The staff appraisalreport (SAR) indicatesthat the total losses (technical
           and non-technical)were about 15percent before the project irnplementati~n.~
           Azerigas confirms that the average current losses in trai~smissionand distribution
           system are about 7-8 percent.        lo



           With regard to sector policies, the project had very little impact since no gas
           legislation or regulation had been adopted, despite the government's
           commitment (as stated in the SAR).

           Based on the above, the extent that this objectivehas been achieved is rated as
           modest.

      b) Improve physical accountingfor gas and encourage an improved conlmercial
           basis for gas trading through upgrading of gas measurement. Although this is
           listed as a separateobjective, this assessment agrees with the ICR that this
           objective is part of objective a. Improvingthe physical accounting of the gas and
           upgrading gas measurement are achievedthrough use of a more accurate
           instrumentationand metering, and through better meter testing equipment.These
           are all covered under objectivea. Therefore, as in that objective, the physical
           achievementof this objectiveis rated as substantial,but the achievementswith
           respect to finai~cial,economic, and sectoral aspects of this objective are rated as
           modest. Accordingly, the extent that this objective has been achieved is rated as
           modest.

      c) Ensure the efficient operation and preserve the value of the existing pipeline
           assets through investment in cathodicprotection, gas analysis, and leak detection
           equipment. The physical activitiesunder this component have been mostly
           con~pleted.The cathodicprotection and the associated drainage stations have all
           been installed. Substantialquantities of coated and uncoated pipelines have also


7. In early 2003, only 30% of the cost of gas supply was recovered. The collection rate was 47% and the
weighted average tariff was approximately $20 per mcm (compared with the estimated supply cost of $32
per mcm). Although the tariff has since increased and has reached to the level of cost recovery, the
collection rate is still about 50%.

8. The Implementing Agency in its comments of April 26, 2006 (see the entire comments in Annex C)
states that the result of 2004 shows that the collection rate was 73.7%, and that the reason it declined back
to 47%-50% in 2005 was due to increase in the price of gas to the full-cost-recovery level in 2005.

9. The basis of this value and the breakdown between technical and non-technical losses before and after
the project implementations are not clear. The MOP indicates that the total of technical and non-technical
losses is at least 15percent. The SAR provides for the system-wide non-technical losses to be 10percent.
The ICR provides that total losses have been reduced to 6.9 percent (page lo), and technical losses has
been reduced to 7.9 percent (page 11).

10.The Implementing Agency in its comments of April 26, 2006 (see the entire comments in Annex C)
states that the losses in 1997 were 14.3%and in 2005 were 6.2%.

           been installed, to replace and rehabilitate the badly corroded existing pipes. The
           leak detection and gas quality analysis equipment have all also been purchased
           and installed (para.2.6~).The only item under this component .thatwas not
           implemented was the procurement and installation of computer software and
           hardware for network modeling. The reduction in technical losses, to whatever
           extent, is the direct result of completion of activities under this component. As
           the result, the extent that this objective has been achieved is rated as substantial.

      d) Support the commercialization of Azeriaas and further development of the sector
           through technical assistance, training prowarns, and the acquisition of modern
           office equipment. It is not clear in what way the project expected to achieve a
           meaningful commercializatioii of Azerigas-          one of the main objectives of the
           project-through     this component. The government, through Presidential Decree
           of May 1996,had already announced the registration of Azerigas as a Joint Stock
           Company (JSC). Azerigas became a JSC immediately after the credit was
           approved. Since, there has been no further action with respect to
           conimercializatioii of Azerigas. The amounts disbursed under this category were
           used to fund (i) the consultants, to help Azerigas in project implementation, (ii)
           the auditors, for auditing the finances of Azerigas for the period 1997-2000, and
           (iii) the purchase of some office equipment. Even the training under this
           coniponent was not implemented. Besides, the principle issue in
           commercialization of Azerigas was the need to put the company in a sound
           financial position. The two key elements essential in this regard were the
           adequate level of tariffs and a viable collection rate, neither of which were
           implemented during this project. Therefore, the extent that this objective has
           been achieved is rated as negligible.


2.16          Considering the above, the overall efficacy of theproject is rated as modest,
because while the physical objectives were met, there were significant shortcomings in
the areas that profoundly affect efficient and economic utilization of natural gas.




2.17          The SAR estimated an average economic rate of return of 47 percent for a base
case, ranging from 21 percent for the replacement meters to 74 percent for city gate
instrumentation replacement. This assessment did not reevaluate the economic rate of
return (ERR),but reviewed the ICR for recalculation of the ERR and found the
assumptions and methodology to be sound and acceptable. The ICR recalculation shows
the ERRSof 24% and 44%, depending on whether the gas volume is based on a reduced
flow (which prevailed between 1995 and 1999 due to Government's decisioii to ban gas
import from Turkmenistan), or the recently increased gas flow after the resuniption of
import. In either case, the rate of return is stlbstantially higher than the opportunity cost
of capital and therefore the project's efficiency from investment standpoint is
substantial." However, this investment-based efficiency gain could easily be offset by the


11.The Implementing Agency in its comments of April 26, 2006 (see the entire comments in Annex C)
states that "the highest economic rate return may be only 15-20%because the purchasing and selling of

larger inefficienciesresulting from sectoraldistortions, such as low collectionrate and
the low level of prices which until recentlywere below the level of full cost recovery.
Therefore,the overall efficiency of theproject is rated as modest.


Outcome

2.18         The focal objectiveof the project was to address the high losses, low efficiency
of use, and high cost of maintaining the operating integrity of the network. From the
policy perspectives,the objectiveswere to improve (a) the financialposition of Azerigas,
particularly through an efficiencypricing and reducing the accounts receivable, and (b)
the corporate and regulatory environments, through (i) corporatizationand
commercialization of Azerigas with a view to be fullyunbundled, and (ii) the
development of a legal and regulatory framework for the gas sector. These, which were
all critical elementsin introducinga market-based sector organizationand attracting
private sector participation,were implicit in the objectivesof the project.

2.19         This is an ambitious,wide-ranging array of objectivesthat embraces virtually
the entire spectrum of reforni initiatives.None of these were implemented duringthis
project. Full cost-recoverydid not begin until early 2005. The arrears continueto be a
major issue. The corporationhas not moved beyond the establishment of Azerigas as a
JSC. No gas law has been adopted and there is no regulatory agency. Given that the
overallrelevance of the project objectiveswere modest, the extent that the project has
achieved its main objective is modest, and the efficiencyof the project is modest, this
assessment rates the overall outcome of theproject as moderately unsatisfactory.


Institutional Development Impact

2.20         The intended impact of the project on the institutionaldevelopnient of the
sector has been negligible.Tlie only activityin direct support of the capacitybuilding
was the training of Azerigas staff in finance, accounting, budgeting,planning, and
marketing. Trainingcomponent was not implementedbecause the Bank declined to
accept the borrower's proposal on the ground that (according to officials)traininghad to
be carried out only in Azerbaijan. This was a major setback given that the training of the
staff in the above areas would have added substantial capabilitiesto the sector.

2.21         However, there were unintended impacts of the project on the institutional
development of the Azerigas and the gas sector. These included (a) the exposureof the
Azerigas staff to financial accounting and financial management, through number of
audits that were carried out on the company's financesbetween 1997and 2000, and (b)
the interactionsbetween the staff and the consultants regarding implementationissues,
and with the Bank on project's economics, financial, environmental, and procurement
issues. Thus, although to a limited extent, the project increased Azerigas abilityto use its
human resourcesmore effectively.The institutional development impact of theproject is
therefore rated as modest.

natural gas is belonged to the utility where the rate of return is very low." [Explanatorynote: the values
referred to in the SAR and the ICR are for economic internal rate of return, to be distinguished from
financial internal rate f return].

Sustainability

2.22         The financial sustainability of the project will depend on the extent to which
the cost of gas supply will be hlly recovered; that is, a tariff level that includes the cost
of gas from upstream suppliers (now, SOCAR), the costs of transmission and
distribution, and a reasonable rate of return. But for Azerigas, sustainability will also
depend on a viable collection rate of such a tariff. The tariff was increased (again) in
March 2005 and currently it is at a full cost-recovery level.12While in the short term this
level may fluctuate slightly, over the long term it is expected to be maintained
considering that the government seems determined to operate the sector on a commercial
basis. Besides, given the investment needs of the gas sector, it is difficult to envision a
different approach. With respect to the collection rate, it is still substantially low and,
despite some progress (mostly through SACII), the collection rate lags behind most of the
countries in the region (para.2.9). If the low collection rate does not reach the 80-90
percent level, then the effect of full cost recovery would be diminished rapidly.
However, given the latest price increase (to the level of h l l cost recovery) and the acute
need for private investment to meet the significant investment requirements in the gas
sector, the Government is committed to pave the way for a fully commercial operation of
the gas sector. Once the sector is in a sound financial position, the unbundling and h l l
corporatization could easily follow.

2.23         The project's technical sustainability is likely given the competency of the
technical staff. The project's coniponents have contributed to reducing the technical
losses stemming from leakage, and from malfunctioning meters and instrumentations.
Therefore, this assessment rates theproject's sustainability as likely.


Bank Performance

2.24         Lending. The Energy Sector Review provided the sectoral policy framework
for the project's design, and the Japanese grant provided the design for the physical
components of the project by identifying priority investment needs in gas transmission
and distribution. But the quality of the project at entry suffered from several
shortcomings, including numerous policy conditions and the unrealistic timefranie to
achieve them (para.2.8). There were ample opportunities to resolve those shortcomings,
given that from the time of the Project Concept Document to the effectiveness of the
credit a period of three years had elapsed, during which many issues related to
institutional weaknesses and limited extent of the government's commitments had
already become apparent. Further, the Petroleum Technical Assistance project was under
the implementation at the time and many of the issues associated with that project
(particularly those related to quality at entry) had already surfaced. Yet, the design of this
project did not fully take into account the lessons learned and prepared an ambitious
framework from the policy and reform standpoints. This assessment rates the Bank's
performance during lending as unsatisfactoy.



12. The Implementing Agency in its comments of April 26, 2006 (see the entire comments in Annex C)
states that "at the suggestion of Azerigas in 2005 the gas selling price has been made 200,000 Manat
(US$43.5, without VAT) per 1000m3 for all consumer groups."

2.25       Implementation.The project had only two "soft" components: (i) training of
Azerigas staff (in planning, budgeting, finance, accounting, marketing and h ~ ~ m a n
resource management) to facilitate its commercialization (para. 2.6d), and (ii)
procurement of computer software and hardware for network modeling, to assist Azerigas
to strengthen its capacity in the important technical area of carrying out the analysis of
the system capacity and design (para. 2.6~).However, despite the long implementation
period (about 6 and a half years, including a 2-year extension), neither of the two
components were implemented because of procurement issues and timing. The Bank
should have found ways to resolve the procurement issues of these two components,
given that these activities were important for commercialization of Azerigas and given
the experience it had gained from the Petroleum Technical Assistance project. For
example, the Bank could have helped to develop a mutually satisfactory training program
to permit the training of some of Azerigas staff to take place abroad. Or, Bank
supervision could have included a technical specialist in the area of computer software
and hardware for network modeling. Having such expertise involved in creating
technical specifications might have ensured that all bidders had the minimum technical
capacity required (to avoid the lowest evaluatedbidder being rejected due to inadequate
technical capacity).

2.26      Nonetheless, taking into account the high level of efforts by the Bank during
project implementation (over 90% of the funds have been disbursed and most of the
physical components were successfully completed), this assessment rates the Bank's
overallperformance during implementation as satisfactory. However, considering the
Bank unsatisfactory performance during lending,--which had significaiitlyhigher impact
on project performance--the Bank's overallperformance is rated as unsatisfactory.


Borrower Performance

2.27       Preparation.The implementing agency fully participated in the technical
preparation of the project. The level of its resources and staffing seems to have been
adequate during the preparation of the project. However, Azerigas should have provided
a more realistic assessment of the covenanted conditions related to the financial aspects
of the projects, including the time required to raise the gas tariff and to improve the
collection rate to the levels agreed under the project. Nonetheless, taking into account the
implementing agency's unfamiliarity with the Bank, and the fact that raising tariffs (and
to some extent, improving the collection rate) was outside the control of the
implementing agency, this assessment rates theperformance of the implementing agency
duringpreparation of theproject as satisfactory.

2.28       During preparation, the borrower did not seem to have given due consideration
to the project's conditions with respect to financial and policy requirements. The
government should have been aware of the extent of its commitments to raise the tariff
barticularly for low-income households), and the challenges it would face in attempting
to eliminate the arrears in a short period of time. The government agreed with various
covenants related to these issues but subsequently did not fully provide the supporting
actions. Thegovernment's performance duringpreparation of theproject is rated as
unsatisfactory.

2.29         Implementation and Compliance. The implementing agency provided
adequate management guidance and resources to carry out the project. But the two year-
implementation delay, which resulted in the extension of the closing date by two years,
was partly the responsibility of the implementing agency.13Even if due consideration is
given to some of the procurement problems encountered during the implementation, the
installation of some of the meters is still not completed. Thus, theperfovmance of the
implementing agency duving implementation has been only satisfactory.

2.30         With regard to borrower performance during the implementation of the project
(including its compliance with the covenants), the government did not provide the
necessary support to put in place an efficiency pricing structure, or to cause acceleration
in the collection rate. The government's policies at sectoral level were also not supportive
of the project's implementation efforts, such as the lack of progress in gas legislation and
regulation. The government's perfovmance in suppovt ofpvoject implementation is vated
as negligible.

2.31         Consequently, the implementing agency's overall perfomlance is rated as
satisfactory, but the borrower performance is rated as unsatisfactory. G-iventhe
importance of the policy actions in relation to the efficient utilization of gas in the
country and the lack of progress in the critical policy areas, the ovevallpevfovmance of
the borrowev is vated as unsatisfactory.



3.       Lessons Learned

3.1          The main lessons from the evaluations are as follows;

         When a policy action is stipulated as a loan condition, the conditionality needs to
         be grounded in realistic dated covenants and supplemented with monitorable
         performance indicators to ensure its implementation.

         Gas pricing should extend beyond the goal of achieving financial viability for the
         gas utility and move toward economic energy pricing based on opportunity cost
         principles, including an appropriate pricing structure in relatioil to alternative
         fuels.

         The Bank needs to use the utmost flexibilitywithin the procurement guidelines
         (including the provision of technical assistance for procurement) to resolve
         procurement issues, particularly in countries with weak institutional capacity and




13.The Implementing Agency in its comments of April 26, 2006 (see the entire comments in Annex C)
states that "delay noted in this item happened due to objective reasons which did not depend from the
implementing agency ---." [Explanatorynote: the Bank has accepted this, and the implementing agency's
performance during the implementation has been rated Satisfactory, as well as its overall performance
(para. 2.31). However, the Borrower's overall performance remains Unsatisfactory, as explained in para.
2.311.

where such issues concern components whose implementation is crucial to
achieving development objectives and increasing institutional capabilities.

                                                                                     Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

GASSYSTEMREHABILITATIONPROJECT(CREDIT2923-AZ)


                                         Appraisal        Actual         Actual as % of
                                         Estimate                      a ~ ~ r a i sestimate
                                                                                    a l
                                                                  -
Original commitment                        20.2           --------
Total cancellation

Total ~roiectcost




                                                Original
                                                   --                     Actual

Departure of Appraisal Mission                                         11/21/1995

Board approval                                                          911911996

Signing                                                                1010211996

Effectiveness                                                          0311911997

Closing date                                   0613012001              06130/2003




                                  N" Staff weeks                     US$f`OOO)

Preappraisal                      Not Available

AppraisalINegotiation             Not Available                       391.79

Negotiations                      Not Available

Supervision                       Not Available                       541.45

Other                             Not Available

Total                             Not Available                       923.24

                                                                                                 Annex A


Mission Data
                   Date       No. of     Specializationsrepresented             Performance Rating
               (month/year) persons
                                                                           Implementation Development
                                                                             Progress      Objectives

Identification1    2/94        1                  Task Manager
Preparation

Identification1    6/94        4         Task Manager(l), Operations
Preparation                            Officer (I), OilIGas Specialist (2)

Identification1   11/94        2              OillGas Specialist (2)
Preparation

Identification/    1195        3          Task Manager (I), OillGas
Preparation                                       Specialist(2)

Identification1   03/95        2       Task Manager (I), Consultant (1)
Preparation

Identification1   05/95        4     Task Manager (I), FinancialAnalyst
Preparation                                 (1), OillGas Specialist (2)

Identification1   09/95        5     Task Manager (I), FinancialAnalyst
Preparation    (Preappraisal)        (I), OilIGas Specialist (2) Consultant
                                                         (1)
Identification1   10195
Preparation

Appraisal1        01196        5     Task Manger (I), OillGas Specialist
Negotiation     (Appraisal)          (I), financial Analyst (I), Consultant
                                                         (2)
Appraisal1        04/96        4      Task Manager (I), Consultant (2),
Negotiation                                 InstitutionalSpecialist (1)

Appraisal1        06/96        1                  Task Manager
Negotiation

Appraisal1        07/96        1              FinancialAnalyst (1)
Negotiation

Supervision      10/18/96      5        Prin. Oper. Officer (1); Co-task        HS
                                     Manager (2); OilIGas Specialist (I),
                                                  Consultant (1)
Supervision      02/01/97      3       Technical (1); Task Manager (1);         S
                                                Financialllnst'l(1)

Supervision      09/07/97      2      Technical Procurement (1); Team           S
                                                     Leader (I)

Supervision      06/20/98      1                  Task Manager                  S


Supervision      02/06/99      3       Task Team leader (1); Oil & Gas          S
                                     Specialist (1); Operations Officer (1)

Supervision      06/09/99      3          Team Leader (1); Oil & Gas            S
                                     Specialist (1); Operations Officer (1)

Supervision      06/09/99      3     Team Leader (1);Operations Officer         S
                                        (1); Technical/Procurement (1)

Supervision     1211212000     2        Task Team Leader (1); project           S
                                                     officer (1)

Supervision     04/29/2001     2        Task Manager (1); Operations            S
                                                     Officer (1)

Supervision     0111812002     3     TTL (1); FMS (1); Operations Officer       S
                                                         (1)
Supervision     10/11/2002     3       TTL (1); operations Adviser (1);         S
                                                     FMS (1)

Completion       1112003       2     TTL (1);Operations Officer (1);FMS

                                                         (1)

                       17                           Annex B


Annex B. Project Components, Allocated Costs and Actual
Disbursements


                                                                    Annex C


Annex C. Borrower Comments


                                   Azerbaijan Republic
                                   Ministry of Industry and Energy
                                   Azerigaz Close Joint-Stock Company




                                   ToMr. Fernando Manibog
                               cc:
                                   To Mr. Alain Barbu, Manager, Sector,
                                   Thematic and Global Evaluation Division
                                   (Independent Evaluation Group)


Dear Sirs!


     Due to the "Project Performance Assessment Report" in
the context of "Azerbaijan Republic        - Petroleum Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 2708-AZ)" represented by your letter
dated January 31, 2006 is not related to us we have not any
comments.

Chairman                                                   A. Melikov




                         Baku, Y. Safarov 23 str.
       Phone: (994 12) 490-43-34, Fax: (994 12)490-42-92,490-42-73
                         Teletype: 142069 DIM

                                                                                    Annex C


                                   IEG Mission:

The preliminary project performance assessment under Azerbaijan Republic Gas     -
System Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2923-AZ).

About Report:

        As aware of this clause the IEG assesses the "Bark's lending operations" at
the rate of about 25 percent. If the Group also assessed the project performance under
"Gas System Rehabilitation Project" at the rate of 25 percent and based on that is
drawing the conclusioii such point of view would not be accepted. Because, come to
some conclusion based on the conditions of the 114part of all performance it is
impossible to conduct the final evaluation and as we understand this figure should be
40-50 percent.

About the IEG Rating System:

        The given rating table does not consider in any case the difference in the
period before the credit agreement period, i.e. between the approval and
implementation period when there has been the objective changes in demand for gas.
1.e.in all countries static (changeability) and dynamic (unchangeability) characters of
the reasons that is creating a basis for allocation of the credits are not considered.
Hence the main factor for the estimation of the results of the credit -the objectivity
has been lost.

        As a result of it the evaluation of the credit components implementation
assesses by only the former and in the majority cases by the already non-existent
criterion and thus this evaluation define only the ratings.
In order to avoid such mistakes in further it is obligatory to consider in the evaluation
system the objective clianges between the dates of the allocation and closeout of
credit by some definitely coefficient.

        For exanlple, the following factors negatively influences oil increasing of
losses such as: the quantity of gas has been provided for checking of the tightness and
purging of gas pipelines in 2001-2005 during the works in accordance with renewal
of gas supplying to the districts which were not provided from 1997-99,
malfunctioning or partial functioning of the large-scale industrial enterprises,
installation of gas meters that were calculated and bought before for large volumes of
gas and so on. At the same time in spite of its specificity (technical, economic,
teclmological and so on) the components of the evaluation system are not based on
any calculations where the comparison of indexes are considered and is determined
only on the imagined basis and this standpoint is not acceptable.

        On the other hand as can be seen from the allocation direction of credit
proceeds on components in general it is possible to consider the credit as the large-
scale investment project in gas sector.

                                        21                                         Annex C


         From this point of view there were not carried out any estimation activities by
group and therefore the main parameters such as the cost-effectiveness and return of
investment unreasonably wholly remain outside of the evaluation activities.
It is clear during the evaluation process the group used immeasurable, imagined
character and in the majority cases to the non analyzed data and therefore it can't be
enough to receive the objective results.

1- Country and SectorBackground

Clause 1.5.      Should be added after the first paragraph:

         At the same time as a result of the conducted overhaul of the main and
distribution gas pipeline, niodernization and reconstruction of a gas infrastructure by
Azeriqaz and Government of country during 2001-2005 the technical and non-
technical losses were substantially decreased and in 2005 its level has made 6,8
percent.

         In addition, in 2003-2004 almost 90 percent of all gas consumers such as
industrial, utility and budget organizations were supplied with meters and oil January
1, 2006 almost 316thousand meters are operated by the residential consumer group
and during 2006 it is planned to install 500 thousand meters additionally.
As a result of it during 2002-2004 the gas supply has been renewed to the 32 districts
which didn't receive gas since 1994 and in 17 districts the number of residential gas
consumers was substantially increased.

1.6.     Should be added in brackets: (and on residents).
Currently as a result of the cost-tariff regulation at the suggestion of Azeriqaz in 2005
the gas selling price has made 200 .thousandmanta (43, 5$) (without VAT) per 1000
m3 for all consumer groups.

2.6.     item a), the last paragraph:

2.50     Thousand meters were installed in 2005 and these works will be continued in
f~~tureand it's planned to install 500 thousand meters additionally in 2006.

b)       Cathodic Protection.
Under this component the cathodic protection station is installed and is already in
operation.

Quality at Entry.

2.7      Should be added:

         At the same time the Government of Azerbaijan Republic created the Fuel and
Energy Ministry -the regulation structure in power-gas sector including natural gas
sector and in 2005 at the suggestion of Azeriqaz JSC the wholesale and retail gas
selling prices were achieved on cost-recovery level.

                                                                                   Annex C




a)      The appropriate schedule to extend gas metering to cover all residential
customers groups were presented to the government by Azeriqaz JSC and this
proposal were approved by the corresponding decisions of the Cabinet of Ministry of
Azerbaijan Republic

According to these decisions Azeriqaz JSC have to buy and install 200 thousand
meters in 2005 and 500 thousand meters in 2006 in the housing fond of republic.
Already 250 thousand meters were bought by Azeriqaz JSC and these meters are in
operation at present time. The activities on this point in progress and almost 500
thousand meters will be installed in 2006. 316103meters are existing in the housing
fond (residents) on January 1,2006.


b)      The increasing schedule of the gas selling price for the residential consumer
group are already developed and provided to the Tariff Council and as a result of it
the prices were regulated from the first quarter of 2005.


c)      According to this issue the appropriate program were developed and this
program were admitted by governmelit and the effect of gas price increases on low-
income household were eliminated by the allocation of proceedings from State
Budget as a indirect subsidy and as a result of it the debts were decreased
substantially.


d)      Covering the period of 2004-2005 these subsidies were mutual accounted
between Azeriqaz JSC and SOCAR for gas supplied and between SOCAR's debts to
budget.
When the gas selling prices were increased this issue already has found the solution.


e)      The debts of all large-scale enterprises are already returned by Azeriqaz JSC
(without frozen debts) and the gas payments from these organizations are 90-100
percent.


f)      At the suggestion of Azeriqaz the purchasing and selling gas prices was
considered by Tariff Council aid the proposed price were adopted as a real (230
thousand manat per 1000 m3 (with VAT), i.e., 51$ for all consumer group).



2.9.    According to the results of 2004 the collection rate for the selling gas is
achieved 73,7%. It is clear that Azeriqaz JSC fully met the important terms for the
credit allocation.

Efficacy.




a)      At the beginning of 2005 (March) the gas selling price was achieved to the
sufficient needed to fully recover its production and transmission costs (i.e. operation

                                        23                                        Annex C


costs) and only therefore (i.e. the sellingprice was increased 6,6 time from 35,56
manat to 236 manat) the collectionrate was 47-50% and it is absolutelynormal if
consider that 2005 was the first sellingprice year.

         As shown the report the main goal of the price regulation (drastic increase)
was establishing a viable financial system of Azeriqaz financialposition rather than
the increasing of the collectionrate. And this goal is alreadyreached. In accordance
with the results of 2005 against the losses as was in previous years it were received
the profit.
It is clear that during the implementationperiod both issues were settled successfully.
Particularly consider that only this result is the main requirement for credit terms the
evaluation rate under this component sliould be assessed as "High".

         Notwithstandingthe fact that the collectionrate for gas was still 47-50 % in
2005 at the same time this rate in comparisonwith 2004 was increased onto 145104,3
mln. manat (in old manat). (in 2004 -279106,l mln. manat, in 2005 424210,4 mlii.
                                                                       -

manat). In regard with losses there has been reached the drastic declines. So if as
based on reports before the project implementationperiod the losses in 1996and
1997accordinglywere 14,3% and 785,5 mln. m3 as natural and 14,3%and 700,9
mln. m3. Aid this index was reduced during the credit implementation and closeout
years. According to the given reports this component should receive the highest
estimation.

         Using the creditproceeds the procurement activities of the gas meters for
residential consumers was begun in 2004 and completed in 2005. The explanatory
information list about the efficacy (including economic efficiency) of gas meters for
residents was given by Azeriqaz JSC and the meters were installed hlly.
To come to any conclusion about the collectionrate of the gas sellingprice it is
necessary to receive the credit and to compare the results during the ensuing years.
Then the gas sellingprice should consider or compare with the same level (for
example, accordingto 2005). Consequentlythe comparison should be conducted from
the credit approvalyear (in 1997)to 2005.

         As a result of the both issue consideredin the project were implemented in
full.
With regard to reduction in losses, there has been drastic reduction in losses rather
than some. For example, if all technical losses level in comparisonwith all received
gas was 14,3%in 1997,then in 2005 this figurehas made 6,2% (see table). As
shown of it for coming to some conclusion and carry out the evaluationunder this
component it is necessary to reference to the same reports and this reference shows
that all losses in comparisonwith 1997were reduced twice.

         Accordingto this reports the achievement of physical objective of this
component as shown in item a shouldbe evaluated as high rather than satisfactory.
At the same time since 1997'therewere adopted a lot of legislative acts which
regulates the gas sector and forms the legal basis for implementation of works. As a
result the achievement of this objective shouldbe evaluated as substantial.

                                         24                                        Annex C


b)       This objective also has been rated as modest, but as shown from the given text
the all objectives are achieved and even this assessment agrees with the ICR.

But the achievements with respect to financial, economic, and sectoral aspects of this
objective were rated as modest. It should be note that the any evaluation of the results
with respect to financial and economic could be carry out by the following
parameters:
         Only on the basis of any parateres;

         On the basis of calculations and reports confirming the same parameters;

         By compare with the achieved parameters on cash flow between the years
         which referring to previous and reporting period;

         Which calculation method was used;

         Application the rates which consider the time factor (discounting) (to take into
         account that an expenditure of the credit proceeds was carried out during the
         several years).

         Only considering all of these terms mentioned above and based on the
economic parameters the evaluationmay be carried out and rated. Nevertheless no
any economic parameters were given neither in the text nor in the attachments and
based on it to evaluate these factor is not correct. It should be noted that under this
component Azeriqaz JSC used the more accurate instrumentation and metering, and
better meter testing equipment. Since the credit ranting period (1997) till nowadays
the following actions was realized by Azeriqaz JSC:

         At present time it is in use the computerized test table in the Azeriqazsazlama
JSC which is subordinate to Azeriqaz JSC; the all metering equipments on that table
have passed the State test and the State Agency on Standardization, Metrology and
Patent of Azerbaijani Republic was participated in these works. As a result (this is
the main objective of work) the all measurement instrumentations which are currently
being use at consumers and calculate the physical gas flow are under full control and
they passes the State test on timely basis.


c)       It is clear that under this component it was not implenieilted only 1item and
based on that the physical achievement of this objective should be rated as substantial
at least and even though as High rather than as satisfactory. Simple calculation shows
that if to take as 100 %performance of all works that for outstanding 1item this
percent can make 10 % and consequently 90 % of the implemented level is too high
than the "satisfactory" rate.


d)       Notwithstanding that the basic factors for the general evaluation of this item
are really exist completely or in general they were belonged to Azeriqaz JSC. The
evaluation based on this is not correct. With respect to the commercialization of

                                                                                    Annex C


Azerigas JSC .thesufficient decrees were issued by President and Government and
they already implemented:

    1. By the corresponding decrees of the President of Azerbaijan Republic some
        enterprises and organizations entering into Azeriqaz JSC structure and not
        engaged in receiving, transmitting, storage and distribution of natural gas were
        opened for privatization. 4 organizatioiis were already privatized according to
        the data on January 1,2006.

    2. With the changing of status of Azeriqaz in 1992the subsidizing of any
        activities from the government has been stopped and at present time this
        organization works on self-supporting and self-financing basis.

    3. By anew regulation of the gas selling prices during 2004-2005 period, with
        increasing of the prices and creation the opportunity to cost recovery (bringing
        to the adequate level) and to make the profit  - all of these has created the
        financial and economic basis of cornrnercializatioiiof Azerigas and
        consequently it has been received the profit in 2005. So the achievements as
        shown in item b were reached at the rate of 70% and hence the evaluation of
        the achievements should be considered as satisfactory.

2.16. The mentioned above consider that the rate of the overall efficacy of the
project should be as substantial rather than as modest and the significant
achievements were reached in both efficient and ecoiioniic utilization of natural gas
(increasing of tariff, cessation of subsidizing, profit earning and so on).

Efficiency:

2.17    It is not clear on what basis and areas the SAR estimated an average economic
rate of return of 47 percent. Because rate of return should be determined on each area
separately and it's so high rate is not correct and this approach is not accepted too.
These arguments are based on to the following:

    1. The highest economic rate of return may be only on 15-20%because the
        purchasing and selling of natural gas is belonged to the utility where the rate
        of return is very low.

    2. The earning profit is very high progress in 2005 given that gas sector always
        was under the Government subsidizing (i.e. during Soviet period) and there
        never was realized a profit.

2.18.   The high rate of losses given in that clause and meaning as the focal
objectives of the project is a result of low efficiency of use, and high cost of
maintaining the operating integrity of the network All issues with regard to this are
already implemented:

    1. The rate of losses was reduced and in comparison with the project start date
        the losses decreased substantially (see relative clause).

                                       26                                         Annex C



    2. The high cost of maintaining the operating integrity of the network is not
        confirmed and this is not compare with some standard costs. At the same time
        since 2004-2005 the Tariff Council approved the standard costs level for the
        maintaining of network and currently all activities of Azeriqaz JSC are based
        in the framework of these standards.

        In addition some objectives (improving of the financial position of Azeriqaz
JSC, activities regarding cost-recovery and so on) listed in this clause were
implemented also. The high accounts receivable were frozen by the corresponding
decrees and the resolution of this issue doesn't concern to the Azeriqaz JSC's
authority. At the same time in this clause was emphasizing that "all critical elements
in introducing a market-based sector organization and attracting private sector
participation, were implicit in the objectives of the project".

        It should be noted that the draft version of the project was developed in 1995-
1996when Azerbaijan Republic made the first steps with respect to the market-based
economy. And therefore at that time it was not real to define the objectives exactly,
comprehensively and clearly.

2.19. The project objectives were reached whenever possible:

    1. The cost-recovery was reached in 2004 only, i.e. before the early 2005. So by
        results of 2004 were received total selling gas of about 4060,O MCM
        amounted to 378872,2 mln. AZM, i.e. as and the payment for gas was
        279106,l mln. AZM, i.e. almost 73,7%.

    2. The frozen debts, i.e. the debts were put a veto on them collection by the
        President's and government's decrees also is considered in it (see clause
        2.18). So the accounts receivable is collecting and the main factor for the
        evaluation of this objective is avoiding of accumulation the accounts
        receivable rather than the collecting them. By results of 2004 tlie accounts
        receivable was amounted total 99766.1 mln. AZm, i.e. as the percent of the
        accounts receivable has made 26.3%.

    3. In item d) is given the comprehensively information about the changing
        activities of Azeriqaz after the establishment as a JSC. And this objective is
        reached.

        By rated the overall relevance of the project objectives, the achievement of its
main objective, and the efficiency of the project as high, the rates the overall outcome
of the project should be evaluated as satisfactory and the grounds for such assumption
is given in the current comment.

Institutional DevelopmentImpact.

2.20    According to this component after each audit the comprehensively action and
proposal plan were submitted to the Bank by Azeriqaz JSC.

                                                                                     Annex C


Sustainability

2.22     After the increasing of price in 2005 the collection will reach the 80-90
percent level only in 2006-2007 and Azeriqaz already considered it on the estimate
for 2006.

2,23     The project's components made the effective and sufficient contribution.
Therefore, based on that the project's sustainability should be rated as substantially.

Borrower Performance

2.27. Preparation

         Azeriqaz JSC submitted to the Tariff Council the corresponding proposals for
the increasing of the tariff during requested time and the improving of the collection
rate to the level which agreed in the project and the first rise was only on November,
2004 and the second was on March, 2005. Given that the implementation of these
issues really depend from the price rising and consider that the collection from budget
organizations and residents which really impact to the collection rate is outside of the
control of Azeriqaz JSC the assessment in this item could be rated as substantially.

2.29     Implementation and Compliance.

         The delay noted in this item happened due to the objective reasons which
didn't depend from the implementing agency (i.e. the activities of other
organizations) and arose during implementation. Therefore the implementing agency
is not partly responsible for it. The installation of the meters (industrial and
residential) is fully completed. Based on this the performance of the implenieiiting
agency during implementation should be rated as satisfactory.

2.30    For the achievement of the objectives mentioned in this clause the government
provided the necessary support and made all efforts and its explanation is given at the
items above. Based on this the government's performance in support of project
implementation should be rated as satisfactory

2.31. Given the importance of the policy in relation to the efficient utilization of
gas in the country and the elimination lacks of performance on reduction of debts, its
efficiency, the rate of collection debts for gas supplied in comparison with the project
start, the positive results of the tariff-price policy, the account level of the physical
gas (see the explanation of items above) .theoverall performance of the borrower
should be rated as substantially.

Lessons Learned.

3.1      The results from the evaluations are as follows:

        The requirements specified in this item could not be considered for 10 years

                                       28                                         Annex C


       (1996-2006) forward from the moment of credit receiving and consequently
       these terms was to be accepted as conditional. Moreover it is very important to
       consider that 1996was the transition year for the market-based economy and
       such conditions are already available in 2006. 1.e. to carry out aiialysis of the
       objectives and their qualitative and quantity indicators stipulated for 1996in
       2006 is of a biased character.

       The wholesale and retail prices of gas adopted in 2005 meet all of these
       requirements and they were determined according to the strategic goals and
       alternative cost principles (cost-recovery+profit).

       At the same time to resolve the procurement issues it is very obligatory to
       consider the following terms during the evaluation process: time factor,
       duration of legalization process, development of its legal relevance, removal
       the different between the country rules and Bank's guidelines and in most
       cases for removing of these lacks the authority of legislative body must be
       take into account.     In addition it's necessary to pay attention to the
       following:

           1. With the Bank's approval beginning at the first year of the credit
               receiving it was carried out the review of Azeriqaz JSC and the audit
               of the corporate reports. The results of audit for each year were
               submitted to the management in the letter form by audit firm.

           2. According to the results of the audit Azeriqaz JSC submitted the
               official letter to the Bank where the reasonableness proposals were
               given, the unexecuted reasons were defined and were made some
               comments. However all these proposals aiid the official letter was not
               be considered by the Bank and they are not reflected in the present
               report.

           3. Generally the estimation of any project including the mentioned credit
               the investment, long-term and sizeable activities have to be
               implemented in accordance with the following rules:


a)     If all performance relate to the project and its various coniponents are
executed in full and according to the annual results received after the project closeout
(except the case when the achievement of objectives will take up some years). If the
proposals and comments of Azeriqaz JSC would be taken into consideration the
implementation of some activities and components would be in full and the results
would be the positive.

Head of Economy and Forecast
Division                                                               T.Allahverdiye

