                          Document of
                       The World Bank




                                                         Report No: 27439

           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                    (IDA-29230 PPFI-P9860)

                             ON A

                            CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 14.1 MILLION (US$20.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                            TO THE

                   AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC

                            FOR A

            GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT




                           April 9, 2004

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective December 2003)

                  Currency Unit = Manat
                 1 Azeri Manat = US$ 0.0002
                       US$ 1.00 = Azeri Manat 4.88

                        FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 -December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



                 Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
              Country Director     D-M. Dowsett-Coirolo
               Sector Manager      Hossein Razavi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     William R. Porter

                                        AZERBAIJAN
                      GAS SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                      N/A
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37

Project ID: P008287                                                  Project Name: GAS REHAB
Team Leader: William R. Porter                                       TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 9, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: GAS REHAB                                                L/C/TF Number: IDA-29230; PPFI-P9860
    Country/Department: AZERBAIJAN                                                        Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Oil and gas (100%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/22/1995                                     Effective: 03/19/1997
     Appraisal: 11/21/1995                                         MTR:
      Approval: 09/19/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC/AZERIGAZ
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                            Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                 Hossein Razavi                                 Jonathan C. Brown
Team Leader at ICR:             William R. Porter                              Michael Levitsky & Margaret Wilson
ICR Primary Author:             William R. Porter


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The principal objectives of the project as stated in the SAR are to: (a) promote more efficient use of gas
and reduce non-technical losses by replacing obsolete and inaccurate metering, improving measurement
instrumentation, installing meters where none presently exist, and establishing associated meter proving

facilities; (b) improve the physical accounting for gas and encourage an improved commercial basis for gas
trading through the upgrading of metering and instrumentation; (c) ensure the efficient operation and
preserve the value of the existing pipeline assets through investments in cathodic protection, gas analysis
and leak detection equipment; and (d) support the commercialization of Azerigaz and further development
of the sector through technical assistance, training programs and the acquisition of modern office
equipment.

The objectives were aligned with the Bank's assistance strategy (the CAS for Azerbaijan and this project
were on the same Board Meeting Agenda) which, at the time the project was prepared, was aimed to assist
Azerbaijan in achieving a balanced transit to a market economy. In respect of energy and energy
infrastructure, the CAS saw a need, in the near term, to maintain a basic provision of essential services to
the population and to evolving enterprises, while at the same time minimizing budgetary transfers. In the
long term, the CAS was hoping to see a reliable, efficient and financially self-sustaining system of energy
supply necessary for sustainable development. The proposed Project promoted these objectives by
supporting rehabilitation of existing facilities, reduction of gas losses, and corporatization of the gas
distribution sector. In addition to loss reduction, the Project encouraged more efficient use of gas by
proposing that gas be sold at economic prices and that consumers be obligated to pay their gas bills within
a reasonable period of time. The project was, therefore, designed to facilitate Azerigaz's transition to being
a more commercially oriented operation which would support the introduction of a market-based sector
reorganization, as well as attracting future private sector participation. The Credit Agreement included
covenants setting forth requirements for the submission of audits, increases in gas prices and maintenances
of adequate operating margins and the Project Agreement had covenants covering audits, debt service
requirements, required rates of return on Azerigaz's fixed assets and improved collection rates.

The Energy Sector Review carried out by the Bank in 1993 (World Bank, Azerbaijan Energy Sector
Review, Report No. 12061-AZ, December 27, 1993) emphasized the importance of natural gas as a source
of energy in Azerbaijan, but also recognized the need to improve the efficiency of gas production, transport
and use. In addition, the Japanese Government had provided a grant to the Government of Azerbaijan to
finance a project preparation study which identified priority investment requirements in gas transmission
and distribution, and served as a basis for this project. The consultants engaged to undertake the project
preparatory work determined that the gas transmission/distribution enterprise, Azerigaz, was suffering from
a lack of investment in new capital equipment, replacement parts and modernization. The study highlighted
that existing metering equipment was outdated and inaccurate, the network was in a poor state of repair,
operations and maintenance of the pipeline systems were highly labor intensive, and obsolete equipment
was often not replaced. Furthermore, losses, both technical and non-technical, were high, and there was
little incentive to conserve energy. The consultants' report identified a number of necessary investments,
and outlined a priority investment program. This included metering, pipe replacement, gas dehydration
units, laboratory and testing equipment, construction equipment, detailed reservoir studies and essential
maintenance for the storage facilities, equipment for LPG distribution, cathodic protection and planning
studies for future network development.

The Gas Rehabilitation Project, as initially appraised, was based on the findings of the project preparation
study, and envisioned a project costing in excess of US$ 100 million, with the Bank providing an IBRD
loan of approximately US$ 90 million. However, shortly after appraisal, the Bank reassessed the country's
credit-worthiness, and concluded that it was not eligible for IBRD lending. As a result, it was necessary to
drastically restructure the project to fit within the IDA lending envelope which limited the funding available
to US$ 20 million equivalent. Through intensive discussions with the Borrower and implementing agency,
it was agreed to focus the project on components that would have an early impact on the company's
financial viability and would yield the cash flow necessary to undertake the other required investments out


                                                       - 2 -

of internally generated funds.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was divided into four main components, each of which had several sub-components. The
components were: (a) metering; (b) cathodic protection (CP) system rehabilitation; (c) analytical
equipment; and (d) corporatization support.

The Credit was in the amount of SDR 14.1 million (US$20.2 equivalent at the time of the SAR) and would
cover the foreign currency portion of the project. Azerigaz would finance US$4.4 million equivalent from
internal cash flow to cover local costs. A summary of the cost estimate as presented in the SAR is shown
below:

Component                                                   Cost (US$)
                                           Local            Foreign           Total
METERING                                   $1,496,000       $9,551,000        $11,047,000
CATHODIC PROTECTION                        $1,057,000       $3,776,000        $ 4,833,000
ANALYTICAL EQUIPMENT                       $ 363,000        $1,024,000        $ 1,387,000
CORPORATIZATION SUPPORT                    $ 560,000        $1,750,000        $ 2,310,000
         Base                              $3,476,000       $16,102,000       $19,578,000
         Contingency                       $ 876,000           4,114,000         4,992,000
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         $4,353,000       $20,216,000       $24,569,000

(a) Metering: The metering component included: (a) rehabilitation of the city gate meter stations throughout
Azerbaijan by replacing the existing instrumentation or by replacing the entire meter at some stations; (b)
installing new meters at industrial and large commercial consumers who currently had no meters; and (c)
rehabilitating the meters used by industrial consumers with meters by either replacing the meters or
replacing the measuring instrumentation. In addition, financing was provided to acquire related meter
proving equipment and equipment packages to facilitate meter installation and repair. This component was
consistent with meeting the Project's objectives.

(b) Cathodic Protection System Rehabilitation: The cathodic protection (CP) of the pipeline system
throughout Azerbaijan was in poor condition and in need of rehabilitation, largely as a result of a lack of
funds for investment. The CP rehabilitation component focused mainly on the Apsheron peninsula and
covered about 2,700 km of pipelines serving that area. This area was selected because it is where most of
the gas is currently transported and consumed, and for safety reasons as this is the area of highest
population density. The rehabilitation program included electrically isolating the pipelines into discrete
sections, designing the detailed CP requirements for each section and installing the required equipment. A
specialized consultant was hired to assist Azerigaz in the initial isolation of two pilot sections, one on the
transmission system and another one on the distribution network, carrying out the design, and training
Azerigaz to continue the work. In addition to the CP equipment, an allowance for approximately 900 tons
of large diameter pipe was included in the cost estimate, to be used to replace seriously corroded pipe
which were discovered during implementation. This component was also consistent with meeting the
Project's objectives.

(c) Analytical Equipment: This component consisted of three sub-components: (a) gas quality test



                                                     - 3 -

equipment; (b) leak detection equipment; and (c) computer software and hardware to undertake network
modeling. The gas quality test equipment was to upgrade Azerigaz's gas analysis capability, and included
gas sampling and analysis equipment to verify gas quality and heat content which would ultimately improve
the firm's ability to account for its gas. The equipment was situated to test gas supply received from
SOCAR, and housed in Karadag in a suitably constructed building in line with international norms. The
operational procedures for this gas testing center were included in the supply agreement signed between
Azerigaz and SOCAR. Leak detection equipment would replace the existing equipment which was obsolete
and, in many cases, not working; and network modeling tools would assist Azerigaz in carrying out
engineering analysis for system capacity and design. Again, this component was consistent with meeting the
Project's objectives.

(d) Corporatization Support: The Corporatization Support component of the project included: (a)
assistance in project implementation; (b) training for Azerigaz staff; and (c) upgrading of office equipment.
Implementation assistance, provided by consultants, included assistance in procurement, engineering,
project management and accounting, and implementation supervision (PEMS). Training would include
assistance with the company's organization and management training in modern procedures for commercial
operation (planning, budgeting, finance, accounting, marketing, human resources management). Office
equipment included the purchase of computer hardware and software to assist gas accounting, financial
accounting, and technical groups. In addition, funds would be available to pay auditors to assist Azerigaz
in the preparation of project and entity audits. Again, this component was consistent with meeting the
Project's objectives.

Safeguards Policy

This project was rated as "Category B" in accordance with OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) which
was the effective safeguard policy at Credit approval. An Environmental Assessment and Environmental
Mitigation Plan were prepared and a summary was included in the SAR. The project focus was inherently
beneficial from an environmental perspective (e.g., replacement of leaky pipes, rehabilitation and
replacement of old and often leaky meters, etc.), and therefore it not surprising that the assessment
indicated that no significant negative impacts were anticipated and only the replacement of degraded pipe
and cathodic protection would have measurable short term construction related impacts on traffic
circulation, air quality, odor, soil erosion, water quality, noise and public safety risks. The impacts of these
components were dependent on the specific characteristics of the locations, and mitigation measures to be
taken were described in the environmental mitigation plan. The Plan also included the appointment of an
environmental coordinator to work with the PIU and ensure that provisions in the plan were carried out.

3.4 Revised Components:

There were no revised components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Quality at Entry is rated as unsatisfactory because the Bank made the incorrect assumption that this
project would provide sufficient leverage to achieve significant gas sector reforms. It is important to
mention that the Bank made the same assumption in the design of other similar rehabilitation projects in the
ECA region. Unfortunately, most of these other projects also had unsatisfactory outcomes. On the positive
side, the project was consistent with the CAS, and was based upon a comprehensive Energy Sector Review
which had been carried out by the Bank. Furthermore, the Japanese Government had funded an extensive
preparatory study which prioritized the investments needed in the gas transmission and distribution sectors.



                                                      - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The outcome of the project is assessed as Unsatisfactory although it achieved Satisfactory results for two
of the four objectives, and partially satisfactory results for a third. However, since the main rationale for
having rehabilitation projects was to accelerate the reform agenda, the project is rated as Unsatisfactory
because the reform objectives are not met. Furthermore, the financial covenants in the Credit and Project
Agreements were not fully satisfied. Specifically, the requirements dealing with improved collection rates,
and minimum rates of return by Azerigaz were both missed (although the Company satisfied the
rate-of-return covenant in 2001). In retrospect, it is apparent that the project suffered in assuming that this
investment loans had sufficient leverage to get the Government to carry out needed reforms in the gas
sector. This rehabilitation project did benefit from the reform efforts supported by the Government under
SAC II (this is discussed later on in this section) but, unfortunately, the impact of the adjustment credit
came too late in the Project's life to significantly change the outcome.

The achievements for the objectives of the Project are discussed below. However, in some instances it is
difficult to distinguish project impacts from those attributable to the relatively chaotic state of the energy
sector during the period of project implementation. Shortly before the project was approved by the Board
of Executive Directors, the Government issued a "temporary" ban on gas imports. At the time, imports
constituted approximately 30 percent of total supply, and the sudden absence of sufficient gas for heating
and cooking led to a sharp jump in the demand for electricity among both residential and commercial
customers. Specifically, Azerigaz had been forced to shut down much of their transmission and distribution
network outside the Apsheron Peninsula. In addition, gas consumption decreased because of major
problems with district heating plants as a result of insufficient funding for maintenance. This in turn led to
a need to allocate increasing quantities of gas to power generation. Despite this downward spiral in the
efficiency of overall energy supply, the Government did not lift the gas supply constraint until 2000, and
then mainly to insure that there was sufficient gas available for power generation. As a result, Azerigaz
shut down much of their distribution and transmission network outside the Apsheron Peninsula. While this
could not be construed as a desirable situation, it did contribute to more efficient use of gas (as measured
by consumption per unit of GDP and per unit of industrial output), and also to reduced losses as the size of
the network and operating pressure declined.

Within this context, the outcomes of the project are summarized as follows:

(a) Promote more efficient use of gas and reduce nontechnical losses by replacing obsolete and inaccurate
metering, improving measurement instrumentation, installing meters where none presently exist, and
establishing associated meter proving facilities; and (b) improve the physical accounting for gas and
encourage an improved commercial basis for gas trading through the upgrading of metering and
instrumentation;

These two objectives are quite similar and for this reason are being discussed together. The outcome of the
second objective is rated as Satisfactory. With respect to the first objective, it is rated as partially
Satisfactory since technical and nontechnical losses were reduced, and the efficiency of gas use was
improved, but the latter impact was probably attributable as much to outside factors as to the project itself
- vis the fact that the Government severely constrained gas supply throughout most of the project
implementation period by refusing to import gas in order to meet local demand. The original rationale of
the project - that improved metering together with payment discipline and tariff reform would lead to more



                                                       - 5 -

efficient gas use - was largely undermined throughout by the Government's unwillingness to rationalize the
tariff structure or to follow through on the numerous decrees that were issued to improve payment
discipline.

Using funds from the Credit, Azerigaz has acquired and installed, as of October 30, 2003, the following
number of meters by type:

          Rotary meters            1461 of which 981 are installed
          Flow computers           325 of which 309 are installed
          Orifice meters           6 of which 6 are installed
          Diaphragm meters         55,000 household meters of which 6,216 are installed
          Diaphragm meters         508 industrial meters of which 121 are installed
          Turbine meters           36 of which 23 are installed

New meters were installed at essentially all locations where gas is currently delivered from the high
pressure pipeline system, and new or replacement meters were acquired to measure sales to Azerigaz's
largest customers. As a result of the new meter installations, rehabilitated pipes and meters, the use of flow
computers, and improved supervision, there has been a reduction in losses to 6.8 % of annual sales from
15-20 % when the project started. This is significant and highlights that today Azerigaz is much better able
to measure and account for its gas supplies, and consumers with the new meters can have confidence that
they are being properly billed for their gas purchases. The main reasons why more meters have not been
installed are because (a) of the smaller number of industrial and commercial consumers as a consequence
of reduced industrial activity, and (b) there has been inadequate time for installation since the last shipment
(55,000) of residential meters arrived in June 2003. In addition, the equipment to ensure that meters are
properly calibrated and working correctly (so-called 'provers") is also in operation and working as
designed.

(c) ensure the efficient operation and preserve the value of the existing pipeline assets through investments
in cathodic protection, gas analysis and leak detection equipment;

The outcome of this objective is rated as Satisfactory. As of October 2003, the project has resulted in the
installation of 223 cathodic protection (CP) stations and 33 current drainage stations which completes this
part of the program. The laboratory equipment needed to analyze the gas received from SOCAR has been
installed and commissioned. The leak detection equipment has also been received and is in regular use by
the staff of Azerigaz. The computer software and hardware to undertake network modeling was never
acquired mainly because the Bank was not convinced that the lowest evaluated bidder had the technical
capacity to carry out the assignment.

(d) support the commercialization of Azerigaz and further development of the sector through technical
assistance, training programs and the acquisition of modern office equipment.

The outcome of this component is rated as Unsatisfactory because the commercialization of Azerigaz,
which was one of the main goals of the project, did not occur as was anticipated in the SAR. For example,
one of the goals of the Project was the implementation of an Action Plan to improve payments by
Azerigaz's customers, but, unfortunately, this plan was largely ignored until quite late in the project's life
when the company received the backing of the Government (which it did not receive initially) to carry out
such steps as disconnecting consumers who do not pay. Most importantly, there was a significant
improvement in collections in 2002 following the Government's commitment to reduce the quasi-fiscal
deficit in the energy sector as a result of its undertakings in respect of an adjustment credit (SAC II).


                                                       - 6 -

However, Azerigaz will continue to have financial difficulties until it is allowed to charge prices which will
cover its costs. This highlights the importance and necessity of having strong political will to address poor
payment problems in our client countries. Another problem was the proposed staff training programs for
Azerigaz in planning, budgeting, finance, accounting, marketing, human resources never took place
because of differences in opinion between Azerigaz and the Bank on training content and procurement
procedures. Consequently, the company did not change its operational procedures as had been anticipated
in the SAR. On the positive side, Azerigaz did start carrying out financial audits to international accounting
standards.

4.2 Outputs by components:

(a) Metering:

Overall, this component of the Credit is rated as Satisfactory.

The SAR included rehabilitation of approximately 214 city gate meter stations throughout Azerbaijan by
replacing the existing instrumentation or by replacing the entire meter at some stations. In fact, 309 meter
stations had been rehabilitated up to October 2003 by installing flow computers on existing orifice type gas
meters and installing new orifice meters. In addition, the SAR indicated that approximately 465 new
meters would be installed at industrial and large commercial consumers who had either no meters or had
meters of poor quality. As of October 2003, Azerigaz had installed 1,125 meters which means improved
metering for all of its large and medium-sized customers and more meters could have been installed but for
the reduction in the number of industrial concerns. Sales to householders and small consumers currently
account for 55 % of the total sales of Azerigaz and it was agreed with the Government that, during the
extension period, Azerigaz should procure approximately 55,000 meters for use by this category of
consumer. These meters were delivered immediately prior to the Credit's Closing Date in June 2003 and
consequently Azerigaz had only installed 6,216 meters by October 2003 (increased to 9,121 at the end on
November 2003) but the intention is to continue the program of installing meters in large homes and small
apartment buildings in the Apsheron Peninsula as quickly as possible.

The project purchased many types of equipment to improve measurements depending on the needs and
circumstances. There were some minor operating problems with some meters but these were corrected
because the meters were under warranty and the overall program has been a success. The different types of
meters included:
        Electronic gas flow computers which were installed on existing orifice-type gas meters at city-gate
metering stations and at large consumers. These installations are suitable for remote monitoring and can be
used in a future SCADA system.
        Rotary-type gas meters were installed at large industrial enterprises. Different sizes of meters were
purchased depending on the flow rates.
        Orifice-meters were installed at the city-gate stations and large offtake locations.
        Turbine-type meters with electronic correctors for use at city-gate stations and for large industrial
consumers.
        Diaphragm meters for use by small industrial, commercial and household consumers. Different
sizes were purchased depending on the flow rates.

In addition, funds were used to acquire related meter proving (i.e., testing) equipment and equipment
packages to facilitate meter installation. Two proving stations were procured - one for diaphragm gas
meters and the second station handles rotary and turbine-type meters - and the results are excellent. The
stations are fully automatic and can calibrate between 240 to 360 meters per day, depending on the type. In


                                                      - 7 -

addition, the new systems require less personnel, are more efficient, and produce more accurate calibration.


The project also purchased three mobile workshops which are used to install new meters and rehabilitate
old ones. One of the vehicles has a built-in crane and all vehicles have the required equipment (generators,
welders, compressors, wrenches, etc.) needed to work on the meters. Azerigaz has been pleased with the
performance of the three mobile workshops because it improved their efficiency. For example, whereas it
used to take one day to install a new meter, it now takes only 2-3 hours. Furthermore, calibration of meters
can be done in one hour whereas it used to take 2-3 days. Because of the good results, the company
intended to purchase an additional 5 mobile workshops but the Bank did not support the proposal because
there was not enough time left before the Credit was closed.

(b) Cathodic Protection (CP) System Rehabilitation:

Overall, this component of the Credit is rated as Satisfactory.

CP equipment is used to reduce external corrosion to a pipeline system. The SAR included a plan which
involved selecting two pilot sections in the Apsheron Peninsula, carrying out studies and measurements,
defining the required CP equipment, installing the equipment, and then using the results of the pilot tests to
estimate the needs for CP throughout the entire Peninsula. However, the planned approach was determined
to be unworkable when the two pilot studies found that the pipe wrappings were in very poor condition, if
they existed at all, and installation of cathodic rectifiers would have created more corrosion rather than less.
Consequently, with the agreement of IDA, it was decided that the CP equipment would only be installed on
newly installed pipes wrapped with polyethylene tapes, and the program of CP would follow the program to
rehabilitate the entire gas network which was already underway. As of October 2003, 223 CP stations and
33 current drainage stations have been installed. The project has also already consumed the entire
procurement of 150,000 square meters of polyethylene wrapping material which was applied by
hand-wrapping machines purchased by the project (see below).

The SAR included funds to acquire new large diameter pipe to replace seriously corroded pipe which were
discovered during implementation. In addition to external corrosion caused by poor CP, the gas system in
Azerbaijan badly needs to be renovated because of internal corrosion. One of the main reasons for internal
corrosion is because much of the gas received from SOCAR is not treated before entering the pipeline
system. Consequently any entrained water produced with the gas settles out in the low points in Azerigaz's
pipelines and this eventually leads to corrosion.

Azerigaz purchased 900 tons of steel pipes (exactly as projected in the SAR) which was wrapped with
polyethylene tapes and 90 % of it has been already installed with cathodic protection. The project also
acquired 3,172 tons of pipes coated with polyethylene to replace the most corroded parts of the system. The
acquisition of new pipes was very important to Azerigaz because high salty soils and crossings of
numerous swamps and lakes had resulted in Azerigaz's pipelines in the Apsheron Peninsula being in very
poor condition. Pipes of a wide range of diameters were acquired to permit Azerigaz to cut-out and replace
the worst sections and CP equipment was installed on the new pipes to enable reliable corrosion protection.
The deliveries of pipe were made in June 2003 and 22 kilometers of pipe will be installed before the end of
2004 and three kilometers will be kept as a safety reserve.

(c) Analytical Equipment:

Overall, this component of the Credit is rated as Satisfactory.


                                                        - 8 -

This component consisted of three sub-components: (a) gas quality test equipment; (b) leak detection
equipment; and (c) computer software and hardware to undertake network modeling.

A new gas laboratory built to international standards to verify gas quality and heat content of the gas
supply from SOCAR has been acquired. The laboratory improves Azerigaz's ability to account for its gas
because of better knowledge of the specifications of the gas it purchases. The equipment is used to measure
methane and other hydrocarbons, hydrogen sulfide, water, dew point, odor, etc. Azerigaz was responsible
for constructing the building housing the laboratory and the supplier was responsible for supplying the
equipment and putting it into operation. In the end, Azerigaz was able to modify an existing building and
this reduced substantially their expected investment costs.

The project funded one contract to procure a range of gas leak detectors including hand-held gas detectors
(68 units), portable gas detectors (2 units used mainly to detect leaks from buried pipelines), calibration
unit for detectors, and two vehicles suitable for high-speed searches for leaks. The new equipment replaced
existing equipment which was obsolete and, in many cases, not working. Previously, Azerigaz personnel
could not distinguish between natural gas leaks and surrounding gases because they could not tell the
differences between odorants injected in natural gas and biological gases in the area. This problem has now
been over-come. In addition, the equipment registers not only the presence of natural gas but also displays
the concentration. Numerous leaks (e.g., 150 leaks located on 37 sections in 1999-2000) have already been
repaired after being located by the equipment, thus reducing technical losses and creating a much safer
place for employees and citizens. As another example, the new trucks located the precise locations of 62
leaks while traveling along 500 kilometers of pipeline, thus reducing the time and expense for Azerigaz in
locating these emissions.

The SAR outlined a plan for Azerigaz to acquire modeling software to assist the company in analyzing its
system capacity and design. There was a long dispute between IDA and Azerigaz over the design
specifications for the procurement but eventually there was a tender. Unfortunately, IDA did not think that
the lowest evaluated bidder proposed by Azerigaz had the required experience and recommended a
re-tender. However, so much time had been taken up by then that there was inadequate time to re-tender
prior to the Closing Date. The estimated value of the tender was US$400,000, and therefore relatively
small.

(d) Corporatization Support:

This component had several sub-components and these are individually discussed below.

At the start of the project, Azerigaz hired a consultant who specialized in the measurement of gas and
helped the company prepare the first draft of the specifications and bidding documents for the various types
of meters (e.g., diaphragm, rotary, orifice, turbine, etc.) and flow computers. Azerigaz also hired a general
consultant to provide engineering and management support to implement the project. This firm assisted
Azerigaz on technical issues by:

        further defining the needs of the metering equipment and final design to revamp the city-gate
stations;
        defining the needs for the meter proving equipment and establishing the specifications for the
equipment;
        defining the need for meter skids and mobile workshops;



                                                      - 9 -

        supplying the equipment to carry out the two test pilots for cathodic protection, and defined the
needs for the cathodic protection program;
        preparing the specifications for the equipment to be used in the new gas quality laboratory;
        preparing the specifications for the gas leak detection equipment;
        preparing the specifications for the gas system network model;
        defining the needs for a training program; and
        defining the needs for the office computers;

The general consultant also assisted in all of the procurements by preparing the bidding documents,
preparing the bid evaluation report and preparing the draft contract. In addition, the consultant helped train
the staff of Azerigaz assigned to the PIU.

The SAR included training for the staff of Azerigaz in planning, budgeting, finance, accounting, marketing,
and personnel management. Azerigaz proposed a training program and IDA responded with a long list of
proposed modifications. After much discussion, Azerigaz then proposed a tender for a training program
dedicated entirely to teaching English to employees. IDA rejected this proposal on the grounds that training
in English was not part of the original design of the project. In the end, no training was provided.

The Corporatization support component also included upgrading of office equipment, and furniture
consisting of desks, chairs, files, tables, etc. In addition, a contract was awarded to purchase computer
equipment and the equipment was delivered and put into operation. However, IDA after reviewing the
situation, decided that the tender was not held in accordance with the procurement procedures and, as a
result, the corresponding amount of the contract was cancelled from the Credit.

Azerigaz has been audited in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) starting with 1999
accounts, using funds from the Credit. However, the audit opinions have been qualified, mainly due to
material departure from generally accepted accounting principles and scope restriction. Azerigaz has
enhanced its accounting capacity, as evidenced by the shortened list of auditor's recommendations outlined
in the Management Letters issued by the auditors with the annual audit reports, but is still not able to
produce financial statements on which auditors can give a "clean" opinion. Azerigaz would be further
advanced if the company had agreed to taking the proposed training in accounting, and maintaining its
books and accounting systems in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS) to facilitate
auditing to ISA sooner in the project's life. The company stated that it could not accelerate the
implementation of IAS prior to Government legislation requiring firms to change over to the new system.
A revised draft Accounting Law facilitating application of International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) to public interest companies including governmental enterprises is scheduled to be adopted during
the first quarter of year 2004.

Safeguards Policy

As would be expected with a rehabilitation program of a natural gas network, there were no significant
negative impacts resulting from the project. The anticipated short term construction related impacts
resulting from the replacement of degraded pipe and cathodic protection did occur but, according to
Azerigaz, these were minor as the contractors followed the mitigation measures described in the
environmental mitigation plan. However, the positive benefits of the project greatly exceeded these minor
impacts as total losses are currently estimated by Azerigaz to be 6.9% (versus 15-20% when the project
was appraised) as a result of the replacement of deteriorated pipes, installation of cathodic protection,
improved meters, rehabilitated meter installations, and new testing equipment. Reduced methane discharges



                                                       - 10 -

has (a) improved public safety through reduced risk of explosion due to undetected leaks; and (b) reduced
the greenhouse effect.

Gas consumption was reduced because of a combination of the installation of upgraded and new metering
and increased attention to being paid for gas deliveries. However, this benefit would have been higher if
prices were closer to economic levels.

The combination of conservation and loss reduction resulting from the project increases the amount of gas
available to householder consumers and thus will reduce the demand for fire wood. This is important since
a 1995 Survey of Living Conditions showed that, in response to gas supply shortages, over 40 percent of
the population were using fuel wood as their primary fuel for heating and cooking.

The PIU was expected to hire an environmental coordinator to oversee the environmental aspects of the
project but this never occurred. However, Azerigaz did establish Labor Safety and Environment
Department in May 2002. This new group, which reports to the Technical Manager, is staffed with 4
technical experts and it provides the ability to continually monitor construction activities.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At the time of inception, the key economic benefits of the project were foreseen to include a reduction in
technical losses (through improved leak detection, pipe replacement and cathodic protection), and improved
efficiency of gas use in the country (as nontechnical losses were reduced and customers were obliged to pay
for the full amounts of gas consumed). Neither of these benefits has accrued to the extent anticipated. In
the first instance, it is true that Azerigaz was able to reduce its technical losses (from an estimated 15% at
inception to the current reported level of 7.9%). However, the value of this benefit was dampened by the
fact that, as a result of a presidential decision to ban gas imports, the total gas throughput of the network
dropped from a level of 7.4 BCM per year in 1995 to less than 5 BCM per year over the 1997 - 1999
period, and has only recently reverted to 8.1 BCM per year as the Government has agreed to reinstate
limited gas imports in order to meet the demands for electricity generation. In addition, the degree to which
the reduced losses are attributable to the project is questionable. When new meters were installed at the
points of gas delivery from SOCAR, it was found that the amounts received by Azerigaz were considerably
less than had been estimated, and hence that gas receipts had been overstated. In addition, the reduction in
pressure in the pipeline network helped to reduce the rate of leakage through moderately worn sections of
pipe.

With respect to the second expected benefit - improved efficiency of gas usage - the macroeconomic figures
definitely showed an improvement in the ratio of gas consumption to GDP and to total industrial output. In
1995, gas consumption totalled 764 m3 per million manats of GDP, and 920 m3 per million manats of
industrial production. By 2001, these figures had declined to 313 m3 and 484 m3 respectively. However,
since the Government consistently failed to support payment discipline, this efficiency improvement cannot
credibly be attributed to reduced nontechnical losses and full customer recognition of the value of gas
consumed. More likely, it arose from the fact that the total amount of gas supplied to customers declined
by one third between 1995 and 1999, and that recent increases in gas supply have been absorbed almost
exclusively by the power generation sector.

The economic return on the project is therefore limited to an uncertain contribution to a reduction in
technical losses. Notwithstanding the uncertainty regarding the degree to which the project contributed to
this reduction, the savings over the period of implementation amounted to approximately 393 million cubic
meters of gas per year. Valued at import parity (approximately US$50 per MCM), this represents an
annual benefit of $19.6 million. A more conservative estimate of the economic benefits attributable to the



                                                       - 11 -

project might assume that the first 4 percentage points of loss savings (between the estimated 1995 level of
15% and the measured 1997 level of 11%) were attributable to more accurate measurement of gas received
into the system from the production fields (which do not represent an economic benefit), and that only the
savings in excess of these amounts are an economic benefit of the project. On this basis, the average
annual reduction in losses would amount to 69.7 million m3 per year, worth on average $3.5 million. If
benefits continue at this average level for another 5 years, the ERR on the project would be 23.9 percent,
and the NPV (at 10 percent) would be $6.96 million. If benefits continue at the level of the most recent
year, the ERR would be 44.1 percent, and the NPV would be $26.83 million. Over the longer term,
assuming that the full level of domestic demand is satisfied through continued imports and/or Caspian gas
from the Shah Deniz development, the benefits of improved metering, leak detection, and pipe replacement
are likely to be more substantial. In addition, if payment discipline is ultimately restored through
privatization and/or a firmer government commitment to full cost recovery for the gas sector, the
anticipated benefits associated with more efficient use of gas may ultimately be realized.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The main financial returns to Azerigaz as a result of the project accrue through the reduction in technical
losses, as discussed above. Furthermore, the financial returns include not only the reduction in physical
losses but also losses attributable to erroneous and nonexistent measurement of gas flows. As such, the
average annual loss reduction for financial purposes is estimated at 393 million m3/year. The value of the
financial benefit, however, is limited by the fact that the system for gas pricing in Azerbaijan was highly
distorted during the life of the project. Gas purchased from SOCAR was priced well below import parity,
at between 48,000 and 54,000 manats (approximately $11.50) per MCM over the period. At the prices
pertaining, the project to date has yielded total savings of $21.6 million to Azerigaz in terms of savings in
gas that was previously paid for but not billed to customers - a rate of return of 41.7 percent, with an NPV
(at 10 percent) of $2.12 million. In addition to avoiding payment for gas not billed to customers,
Azerigaz's financial benefits also include the margins earned on the incremental billings. However,
estimating this benefit requires assumptions regarding the manner in which the incremental sales were
distributed among customers, since the margins vary widely among different customer classes, ranging
from negative margins on household sales (the household tariff is 30,000 manats per MCM) to significant
positive margins on industrial sales (industrial tariffs are 200,000 manats per MCM). If margins are
included in benefits at the average level over the period, the financial NPV of the project through 2002
would be $9.86 million.

There is, however, some question as to whether the loss reduction figures as measured to date will be
sustained in the future. At present, the metering network is not yet complete, and many households and
small commercial customers are still billed on the basis of consumption normatives (estimates). In some
instances, these normatives overstate actual consumption (as compared with consumption rates for similar
types of appliances in other countries). However, in other instances, they may understate consumption (for
example, where customers fail to report the presence of gas-consuming appliances). Once Azerigaz
completes the metering network, and actual consumption can be measured for all customers, there is a risk
that some of the "losses" that are currently buried in over-stated normatives may reappear as actual losses.
Conversely, the situation could be reversed, and Azerigaz could benefit from an even greater net reduction
in losses as customers consuming in excess of the norms are identified and billed for the full amount of gas
consumed.

With respect to future financial returns, government plans call for establishment of a regulatory regime,
and implementation of cost-based tariffs for all customers. Over time it is therefore expected that Azerigaz
will be able to fully recover the residual (i.e. net of depreciation) cost of equipment purchased under the
project, plus a modest regulated rate of return.



                                                        - 12 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The impact of the project on institutional development is rated as modest. The impact is attributed to the
increased efforts by Azerigaz on increased focus on improving collections, increased efforts to reduce
technical and nontechnical losses, and the adoption of improved practices in environmental management
and mitigation. Longer term, a consulting firm which carried out the in-depth review of the gas sector has
recommended that Azerigaz be unbundled and that private sector involvement be invited in all activities but
transmission activities.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There were no major factors affecting implementation and the Project's outcome outside the control of the
Government or the Implementing Agency.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
To upgrade the sector, end user prices should be increased towards economic levels, but the Government
was unwilling to raise natural gas prices on account of their impact on household consumers and on
industrial consumers. The situation was exacerbated by nonpayment, particularly from SOEs and IDA
raised this matter with the Government on numerous occasions as it was a Project Agreement covenant.
Numerous decrees were issued threatening service cutoff, and limiting budget organizations to pre-defined
quantities of gas. However, these decrees were generally ineffective, as the Government would
subsequently grant numerous "exceptions" on the grounds of special circumstances. The outcome of the
Project would, very likely, have been successful if the Government had more quickly placed its attention on
reducing the quasi-fiscal deficit in the energy sector. Fortunately, the Government agreed with IDA, to
address the nonpayment problem and auditing matters in the context of SAC II. However, SAC II came
too late in the history of this project to have a significant impact on the outcome.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Implementation of the project was carried out at the pace established by the PIU in Azerigaz. The Bank
agreed to extend the Closing Date for the Credit for 18 months in order to reduce technical and
nontechnical losses by providing Azerigaz more time to acquire additional household meters and new
pipelines coated with polyethylene. The PIU was able to carry out the procurement activities, although it
had problems with adherence with the Bank's procedures on one procurement.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original cost of the Project of US$20.2 million would cover the foreign currency portion of the project
and Azerigaz would finance US$4.4 million equivalent from internal cash flow to cover local costs. A
summary of the original cost estimate as presented in the SAR is shown below:

Component                                                      Cost (US$)
                                             Local             Foreign         Total
METERING                                     $1,496,000        $9,551,000      $11,047,000
CATHODIC PROTECTION                          $1,057,000        $3,776,000      $ 4,833,000
ANALYTICAL EQUIPMENT                         $ 363,000         $1,024,000      $ 1,387,000
CORPORATIZATION SUPPORT                      $ 560,000         $1,750,000      $ 2,310,000



                                                       - 13 -

         Base                               $3,476,000       $16,102,000      $19,578,000
         Contingency                        $ 876,000           4,114,000        4,992,000
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          $4,353,000       $20,216,000      $24,569,000

Below is a summary of the actual costs spent on the Project:

Component;                                                   Cost (US$ millions)
                                            Local            Foreign          Total
METERING                                    790,000                   8,880,000       9,670,000
CATHODIC PROTECTION                          23,000          5,090,000        5,110,000
ANALYTICAL EQUIPMENT                         10,000          1, 050,000       1,060,000
CORPORATIZATION SUPPORT                     400,000                   2,210,000       2,610,000

TOTAL PROJECT COST                          1,220,000        17,230,000       18,450.000


The Bank's Budget to support this project has been adequate and is shown below:

During Lending Phase                $ 391,792
During Supervision Phase            $ 541,451

It addition, Trust Funds to support the project were also used during the preparation and supervision
phases as shown below:

During Lending Phase                $ 227,297
During Supervision Phase            $    7,975


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project's sustainability rating is rated as "Likely" for several reasons. The Government is in the process
of selling the gas processing plant at Karadag and it is expected that the private owner will invest in new
facilities to remove water and other hydrocarbons from the gas stream prior to it entering Azerigaz's
pipeline network. Assuming a suitable buyer is found, this means that the new facilities purchased under
this project will then have the same useful life as seen in the West. Secondly, the Government's commitment
to the goal of reducing the quasi-fiscal deficit in the energy sector and to improve the reporting of financial
accounts was recently demonstrated and this permitted the release of the second tranche of the SAC II
Credit. This is seen as an excellent indicator that the Government is serious about living up to the
undertakings it gave IDA in the Letter of Development Policy associated with SAC II. Specifically, higher
collections will improve Azerigaz's cash flow so that it can afford to purchase more and better equipment.
Furthermore, the investments in improved technology funded by this project have demonstrated their
economic, technical, financial and environmental viability to measure gas, reduce corrosion, identify leaks,
etc, making it likely that Azerigaz and its successor companies will continue similar investment program.
Lastly, the long term plan is to increase private sector involvement in all of the activities currently being
carried out by Azerigaz, except for gas transmission and a privatization advisor has already been selected
by tender for this activity. The expectation is that a new private operator is almost certain to continue the
rehabilitation program funded by this Credit.



                                                      - 14 -

In the area of environmental management, Azerigaz now has an Environmental Department which is staffed
with professionals and is operational.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

No future operations are planned in the sector.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project identification was satisfactory. The project was consistent with the
Government's objectives for macroeconomic stabilization, price liberalization, achieving budgetary stability
and in creating a market economy.

The Bank's performance in preparation was unsatisfactory. During preparation, the Bank fielded
multi-disciplinary teams of specialists in technical, environmental, financial, and procurement matters.
Technically, the project was well prepared with an extremely detailed implementation workplan and terms
of reference for major assignments were thoroughly reviewed. Project targets were clear. However, the
project's design was flawed in that it assumed there was sufficient leverage to achieve substantial reforms
in the gas sector.

The Bank's performance at appraisal was also unsatisfactory because it did not identify the flaw in the
project's design.


7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's overall performance during supervision was unsatisfactory in that it was not aggressive enough
in trying to turn Azerigaz into a more commercial organization.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is assessed as satisfactory. There was close cooperation at
the time of preparation between the Government and the Bank. Representatives from the implementing
agencies were involved in the preparation of the credit.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is assessed as unsatisfactory because it did not create a
business environment, until very late in the life of the project under SAC II, a supportive business
environment for Azerigaz to operate as a commercial organization.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementing Agency's performance is assessed as unsatisfactory because it did not make sufficient
efforts to improve the commercial focus of Azerigaz. Therefore, the goal of making the gas sector operate
in a more efficient manner was not achieved as expected in the SAR.




                                                      - 15 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower's performance is assessed as unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The main lessons concern the leverage that an IDA credit instrument can reasonably exert on Government
policy making in the sector. The investment credit instrument by itself does not provide sufficient influence
on Government to take the most difficult restructuring and pricing policy decisions. Conditionalities
attached to the IDA adjustment credit, SAC II, were effective in getting the Government to tackle some of
the most difficult sector issues, such as that of nonpayment in the gas sector. Another important
observation is that supervision of an investment Credit provides a very effective way of gaining intimate
knowledge of sector issues and this knowledge translates into sound advice to IDA on conditions for
adjustment Credits.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                             Project Implementation Completion Report

                         The Azerbaijan Gas System Rehabilitation Project

                             Summary of Material Submitted by Azerigaz


General Background

Azerigaz is a national gas company wholly owned by the Government of Azerbaijan. Its principal activities
include purchase of indigenous natural gas produced by SOCAR (State Oil Company of Azerbaijan
Republic); gas import from Russia; transmission of natural gas to domestic markets; operation of two
underground storage; and distribution of natural gas to end users in Azerbaijan. The government of
Azerbaijan has applied for a credit from the International Development Association (IDA, a member of the
World Bank Group) for the implementation of the Gas System Rehabilitation Project.

Based on the Staff Appraisal Report No. 15378-AZ issued by the World Bank in August 1996, Azerigaz
and the World Bank have initiated a Gas System Rehabilitation Project (GRPS) including components that
have been identified as critical to the rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution systems in
Azerbaijan, and for funding under the proposed GSPR.

Planned Project summary

The project is divided into four main components, each of which has several sub-components. The
components are:

Metering

The metering component includes: (a) rehabilitation of the city gate meter stations throughout Azerbaijan
by replacing the existing instrumentation or by replacing the entire meter at some stations; (b) installing
new meters at industrial and large commercial consumers who currently have no meters; and (c)



                                                       - 16 -

rehabilitating the metering at the industrial consumers who currently have meters by either replacing the
meters or replacing the measuring instrumentation. In addition, financing will be provided to acquire related
meter proving equipment and equipment to facilitate meter installation.

Cathodic Protection System Rehabilitation

The cathodic protection (CP) of the pipeline throughout Azerbaijan is in poor condition and in need of
rehabilitation. The CP rehabilitation component would focus on the Apsheron peninsula and cover about
2,700 km of pipelines serving that area. This area was selected because it is where most of the gas is
currently transported and consumed, and for safety reasons as this is the area of highest population density.
The rehabilitation program would include electrically isolating the pipelines into discrete sections, designing
the detailed CP requirements for each section and installing the required CP equipment. In addition to the
CP equipment, an allowance for testing equipment and for approximately 900 tons of pipe has been
included in the project.

Analytical Equipment

This component consists of three sub-components: (a) gas quality analysis laboratory; (b) leak detection
equipment; and (c) computer software and hardware to undertake network modeling. The gas quality
analysis laboratory will include gas sampling and analyzers to verify gas quality and heat content and
improve gas accounting. The gas laboratory will be installed in Karadag according to international norms.
Leak detection equipment will replace the existing equipment which is obsolete. The network modeling
tools would assist Azerigaz in carrying out engineering analysis for system capacity and design.

Corporatization Support

The Corporatization support component of the project includes: (a) assistance in project implementation;
(b) training of Azerigaz staff; and (c) upgrading office equipment. Implementation assistance, which will be
provided by consultants, would include assistance in procurement, engineering, project management and
accounting, and implementation supervision (PEMS). Training would include assistance with company
organization and management and training in modern procedures for commercial operation. Office
equipment includes the purchase of computer hardware and software to assist gas accounting, financial
accounting, and technical groups. An allowance has also been made for items of equipment and technical
assistance to support commercialization of Azerigaz, which will be identified as the process of
Corporatization moves forward.

Auditing of Accounts

In addition, with the agreement of the World Bank, the project includes also the auditing of project
accounts and corporate accounts performed by international auditors.

Cost Estimate

The total project cost including physical and price contingencies is estimated at US$24.6 million
equivalent, of which US$20.2 million, or about 82%, is foreign exchange cost.




                                                    - 17 -

Overall Project Performance

Project Progress

 Leak Detection equipment: LIB 07

Mobile and Portable Leak Detection Equipment has been delivered in 1998, the equipment has been
commissioned and is for now three years in operation. The final progress is 100%, as all equipment has
been received and placed into operation.

Gas Quality Analysis equipment: ICB 10

A complete Gas Quality Analysis Laboratory according to international standards has been delivered in
October 2001. The construction and commissioning have been performed in November and operation
begun in December 2001. The final progress is 100%, all equipment having been installed and
commissioned.

Metering:

        ICB 01: Diaphragm Type Gas Meters: This Tender has been cancelled, as no proposal were
responsive and replaced by ICB 09.
        ICB 02: Rotary Type gas Meters (first part): Meters have been delivered in 1998 and the major
part is installed and in operation.
        ICB 03: Turbine Type Meters: This Tender has been cancelled and replaced by ICB 08.
        ICB 04: Orifice Type Meters: Meters have been delivered in 1998, all are installed and in
operation.
        ICB 05: Volume Correctors for Turbine Type Meters: This Tender has been cancelled and
replaced by ICB 08.
        ICB 06: Flow Computers for Orifice Type Meters: Flow Computers have been delivered, quite all
are installed and are in operation.
        ICB 011: Meter Prover: Meter Proving Equipment has been delivered in 2000 and is in operation.
        ICB 012: Meter Installation equipment: Three mobile Workshops have been delivered in 1999 and
are in operation.
        ICB 013: Rotary Type Gas Meters (second part): The meters have been delivered in 2001.
        ICB 019: Diaphragm Type Gas Meters: The meters have been delivered in June 2003.

The final progress is 98.0%; this task is not completed as only half of the delivered meters are at the time
being installed, due to lack of customer, as a consequence of low industrial activity.

Meter installation status:
        Rotary Meters:            669 meters installed
        Flow Computers:           258 computers installed
        Orifice Meters:           6 meters installed
        Diaphragm Meters:         60 meters installed
        Turbine Meters:           7 meters installed

In addition to the above, 55,000 new meters were acquired in June 2003 and 6,216 of these have been



                                                     - 18 -

installed as of October 2003 and there is a program to rapidly install the balance in 2004/2005.

Cathodic Protection:

ICB 014: Cathodic Protection Equipment: The Equipment has been delivered in 2001, about 15 protection
stations are installed and in operation. Installation will continue together with pipeline rehabilitation.

ICB 015: Steel pipes: The pipes have been delivered in 2000, most of the delivered pipes have already been
installed in the frame of the gas system rehabilitation program.

ICB 020: Polyethylene coated steel pipes: Additional contract in the frame of the extension.               The
equipment has been delivered in June 2003.

The final progress is 99.8 %. This task is not completed, all equipment is delivered but the installation
works will last two years and will progress together with the pipeline rehabilitation program.

Network Modeling:

LIB 016: This item had to cancelled as the World Bank rejected the supplier selected by Azerigaz, in 2001
and due to inadequate short time remaining before credit closing date, it was too late to issue a new tender.

Office and Computer Equipment:

IS 017: Computer equipment: The Computers, hardware and software have been delivered in 2000, and are
in operation. However, after reviewing the procurement, the World Bank excluded this order from the
credit and this delivery had to be paid by Azerigaz own funds  which has caused problems for the
company.
IS 018: Office Furniture: The Office Furniture has been delivered in 2000.

Training:

LIB 020: English Language Training: This tender had to be cancelled due to lack of time before credit
closing date.

Audit:

l Contract for corporate Audit awarded year 1999 to the company ERNST & YOUNG, and fulfilled.
l Contract for corporate Audit awarded year 2000 to the company ERNST & YOUNG, but as Azerigaz
    obtained from the World Bank the required "no objection" to date the contract has not been signed due
    to lack of time before credit closing date but signed during extension period.
l Contract for project Audit awarded year 2000/2001 to the company ERNST & YOUNG, and fulfilled.


Project progress

Project progress calculation is based on the estimated cost of each activity, according to SUMMARY OF
COST ESTIMATE, STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT No 15378-AZ, and Annex 3.1. The actual and final
progress of the project is 96%.




                                                      - 19 -

The reasons for not having achieved a 100% progress are as follows:
-        Training cancelled due to lack of time before credit closing date.
-        Network Modeling cancelled due to lack of time before credit closing date.
-        Installation works not completed for meters and cathodic protection.

Financial Performance

The costs of the project have been taken as being the financial costs. In the case of foreign cost component,
this reflects the cost of equipment and implementation services procured competitively on the international
market. The local costs, due to their relatively modest proportion in the total project cost, have not been
taken into account.

The total amount disbursed by the project was US$17,232,637. Azerigaz intended to use these savings to
purchase additional equipment that was needed to improve operation of the company, but it never
succeeded to place an order for additional equipment.


Economical Performance

The major benefits awaited from this project are:

-        Savings on future expenditures on pipeline replacement due to extension of the useful life of
pipelines through rehabilitation of the cathodic protection system.
-        Reduced gas use as customers who have new, or more effective, meters installed are given an
incentive to use gas more efficiently.
-        Reduced gas leakage due to improvement in average pipeline quality, replacement of damaged and
corroded pipe and improved leak detection and gas quantity accounting.

These benefits will be achieved, but it is to early to quantify such benefits at the time being:

-        Due to the slow down of the economy, an important quantity of industries stopped their activity,
and as the consequence, Azerigaz could only install 50% of the purchased industrial gas meters at the time
being.
-        The installation of cathodic protection equipment is only beginning, and will continue together with
pipe replacement.
-        The low incomes of the population cannot allow a significant gas price increase for individual
dwellings.



Compliance with Loan Covenants

Azerigaz met the Loan Covenants over which it had control. Of course, it was not possible to increase the
gas prices of the households to a level suggested by the Bank due to the low incomes of the majority of the
population.




                                                      - 20 -

Performance of Procurement

There were delays in procurement of some equipment for the following reason:

        Diaphragm Gas Type Meters: The Bank rejected the bid evaluation report, considering that none of
the bidder proposals were eligible. Consequently, the tender was cancelled and the procurement process
repeated.
        Turbine Gas Meters with Electronic Correctors: The Bank rejected the bid evaluation report due to
the fact that Azerigaz joined in one report, the meters and the correctors that were subject to two different
tenders. Consequently, one single new tender was issued, for meters with correctors.
        Gas Quality Laboratory Analysis: During one year, the tender had to be revised at the request of
the Bank, and finally issued. Unfortunately, no acceptable proposal has been received. A new tender has
been issued for a less sophisticated laboratory and the result of the procedure was successful.
        Cathodic Protection Equipment: The delays was mainly caused by the supplier who encountered
difficulties in procuring semi-conductor equipment  varistors  which led to a delay of about 6 months in
the delivery of the last cathodic protection stations.
        Other delays were due to unfamiliarity with Bank procedures.

Major Issues due to Unfamiliarity with Bank Procedures

The major issues due to unfamiliarity with Bank Procedures resulted in delays in contract signing or
cancellation of tenders.

This list is given below:

-        Diaphragm Meters: The offers of the two eligible bidders (Romet and Schlumberger) contained the
companies' sales procedures, which were in contradiction with the Bank's procurement procedures. As
both bidders confirmed that all conditions of the tender documents are accepted, Azerigaz considered the
companies sales conditions as not valid But due to this fact, the Bank rejected both offers, the tender was
cancelled and the re tendering procedure led to an 8 month delay.

-        Turbine meters electronically corrected: At the beginning Azerigaz issued two separate tenders,
one for the meters and one for the correctors. Azerigaz, considering that, for reliable operation of the
equipment and guarantee purposes, both equipment should be supplied by the same manufacturer, and
consequently linked both tenders in a common bid evaluation report. This was not in accordance with the
procedures, as the tender procedure cannot be changed during evaluation period, and the bank rejected the
conclusions of the report. The Bank and the re tendering procedure led to an 8 month delay canceled both
tenders.

-        Training: For English language training, Azerigaz selected the International Shopping Procedure,
which is not in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Procedures, consequently the draft of tender sent
to the Bank has been rejected, a consultancy tender has been established, but due to credit closing date, the
tender was finally cancelled.

Environmental Impact

The project involves only rehabilitation and maintenance, and has no significant or irreversible



                                                      - 21 -

environmental impacts. The natural gas savings generated by introduction of gas meters and reduction of
gas leakage will provide both direct and indirect environmental benefits  reduction of greenhouse gas
emissions associated with lower consumption of natural gas.

The gas consumption reduction will induce greater availability of gas especially in remote regions, and thus
limiting the destruction of the surrounding forests by cutting trees, population in remote areas having no
other alternative to gas than fuel wood, fuel oil and LPG being too expensive for such very low revenue
population of villages.

Only two components of the gas system rehabilitation have a very small impact on physical environment:
cathodic protection and replacement of degraded pipe. But as explained in the section dealing with
cathodic protection, the existing pipes are in such a bad condition that it is not recommended to install any
cathodic protection system. The effect would be detrimental to the pipes instead of protecting them.
Consequently, cathodic protection will be mostly installed on replacement pipes. But the impact of digging
and trenching is not significant as the areas were replacement pipes are required are mostly quite desert,
and the old pipes are transported to a storage area located about 25 km south of Baku in a non-populated
zone.

Sociological Impact

This project has no direct sociological impact, but two factors will lead to a significant improvement of
living conditions in remote areas of the country.

These factors are:
-        Reduction of gas consumption due to meter installation.
-        Reduction of technical losses due to pipe replacement, and leak detection.

These factors together with resumption of gas imports already allowed Azerigaz to supply gas to remote
areas where only fuel wood was available but never in sufficient quantity. So, the inhabitants of remote
villages have not any more heating and cooking problems and will have much better living conditions.

Actions to be taken to maximize the Benefits of the Project

The main action to be taken to maximize the benefits of the project, is to further install gas meters where
possible and to continue the program already launched for pipe replacement and cathodic protection
installation for transmission and launch a comprehensive rehabilitation program of the distribution and
transmission systems.

Performance of General Consultant and Contractors

The performance of the general consultant was considered satisfactory as was the performance of its
contractors regarding quality of equipment, completeness of delivery and technical documentation and
delivery time. Nevertheless, Azerigaz encountered some problems for two contracts:

        Electronic Flow Computers for Orifice Type Meters: The supplier under-estimated the total power
of the batteries. This problem has been solved by the supply, free of charge of additional batteries for all
units.
Cathodic Protection Equipment: As already explained, Azerigaz encountered an important delay in delivery


                                                    - 22 -

of the cathodic protection and drainage stations. This delayed the installation program of this equipment.
This delay was beyond the control of the supplier as it was due to the fact that a worldwide non availability
of semi -conductors occurred which led to a delivery time of about one year for varistors, which are the
core components of cathodic protection and current drainage stations.

Additional Partner Comments

On December 29, 2003, the Bank was informed that Azerigaz had written a follow-up letter to the Bank in
which they disagreed with the Unsatisfactory rating for the project. A copy of the translated letter is
attached below.

                                            Azerbaijan Republic
                                       Ministry of Fuel and Energy

                                       Closed Joint Stock Company
                                                AZERIGAZ




Ref. 08-3692/3
                                                                                    December 18, 2003

Mr. Peter Nicolas
Acting Country Director
Azerbaijan
Europe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank

Dear Mr. Nicolas

        In response to your letter-dated 05.12.2003, "Azerigaz" Closed Josint Stock Company has
reviewed the Implementation Completion Report on Azerbaijan Gas System Rehabilitation Project (Credit
2923-0-AZ)

        We would like to submit our comments and suggestions.

        Attachment: Comments and suggestions 4 pages


               Sincerely,                                          A. Melikov - CHAIRMAN




                                                   - 23 -

                                 Azerbaijan Gas system rehabilitation project
                                              (credit 2923-0-AZ)
                                With Regards to the Project Completion Report

                                       Proposals and Recommendations

                                               ("Azerigas" JSC)

As it was shown in the report, the project was comprised of 4 components:

Component 1. Metering

Metering component is comprised of following parts:

    a) Rehabilitation of all metering stations throughout Azerbaijan at the entrance to the cities through
    partial substitution of tools or otherwise complete substitution of meters at some stations;
    b) Installing meters at those industrial facilities that don't have them;
    c) Rehabilitate metering practices at industrial facilities through substitution of meters or
    rehabilitation of installed ones;

In addition, the financing was allocated for procurement of equipment to test meters, tools for installation
and speed up the rehabilitation of meters. This component was in line with project objectives.

Component 2. Cathode protection of system rehabilitation

Due to the lack of investments the cathode protection (CP) of the pipeline system throughout Azerbaijan
had deteriorated and need comprehensive rehabilitation. The CP rehabilitation component had mostly
focused on Absheron peninsula with total pipeline length of 2 700 km. This project cite had been selected
for the reason of security due to high population density and the fact that the major part of gas is
transported through this area. The rehabilitation program included separate electric insulation for pipelines,
definition of CP requirements for each section and installation of the required equipment. The qualified
specialist was engaged for two pilot sections for insulation with one on transmission and the other one on
distribution network, to help Azerigas JSC, development of plan and training. In addition to CP, the
evaluation of expenses for procurement of 900 tons of big pipes to replace the deteriorated section as will
be revealed in the course of the insulation works. This component also was in line with project objectives.

Component 3. Analytical equipment

This component had comprised of three sub-components:

    a) Gas quality check;
    b) Gas leakage detection;
    c) Hardware and software for network modeling

Gas quality check, together with equipment for gas testing and analysis equipment was supposed to
increase the capacity of Azerigas JSC to do gas analysis. The analytical equipment according to the
international standards was installed in building constructed in Garadag to test the quality of gas supplied
by SOCAR. The exploitation regulations were added to the supply contract between Azerigas and SOCAR


                                                     - 24 -

to ensure the gas testing. The leakage detection equipment was to substitute outdated and frequently nor
working old equipment, as well as system modeling was supposed to facilitate respective works and
increase the respective capacity of Azerigas. This component also was in line with project objectives.

Component 4. Support to corporatization

This included following parts:

     a) Project implementation support
     b) Training for Azerigas JSC staff
     c) Upgrade of office equipment

Project support had included the consultant to support in procurement, equipment, project management,
and accounting and supervision (PEMS). This was supposed to include training on organization of the
company to comply with modern commercial practices (planning, budget development, finance, accounting,
marketing, human resources management). Office equipment included hardware and software to support
the gas metering, financial reporting and support to technical groups. In addition, the resources were
supposed to be used payment to auditors for supporting Azerigas to develop project and corporate reports.
This component also was in line with project objectives.

         As it is seen from the report, every component included in the project (including component
activities) was in line with project objectives (pages 4-5). However, only two out of four components were
satisfactory, third one partly satisfactory, and overall project performance is proposed to be rated as
non-satisfactory which cannot be considered acceptable even with reference to the report.
         First of all, out of four components of the project (taken as 100%) 3 were rated as satisfactory
(75%), meaning positive and it is natural thus to consider overall performance as satisfactory.
         Second, as it was noted, based on the credit size |(World Bank 20.2. USD mln, Azerigas JSC  4.4
USD mln, total 24.6 USD mln) and is implementation period (1997-2002), i.e. 6 years, the actual results of
the economical impact of the project can evaluated only after at least 3 years since project completion. This
means that project activities implemented in 2002 will have their impact on Azerigas JSC performance in 3
years time  2004-2005. Using this as an example, one can point out that, although the implementation of
the "Metering" component had been initiated in 1997, this component had resulted in decrease of technical
loses only in 2002 by 393 mln m3, as it is shown in the report.
         Third, the improvement of the financial status of Azerigas JSC, as set as one of the goals of the
project objective, is linked to tariffs defined for population that are currently below the cost of the
production and this issue in any way is beyond the authority of Azerigas JSC itself.
         Fourth, collection rate has no impact on Azerigas JSC financial status. Thus, even if Azerigas JSC
will manage to achieve 100% of collection, the SOCAR billing will be at the level 113% of collected
amount. For example, Azerigas JSC had sold 3767.3-mln m3 of gas in 2002 and collected 271.6 billion
manat, whereas the actual cost of gas sold is 306.0 billion manat, i.e. 34.6 billion manat more. Moreover,
gas transportation and system maintenance costs another 81.8 billion manat. Thus the total income is 271.6
billion manat. Expenses worth 387.8 billion manat. Loses are 116.2 billion manat.
         Fifth, negative balance of Azerigas JSC, meaning company results in loses, as shown in the report
is not due to the low collection rate, but is linked to calculated income versus sold gas and factors
negatively impacting this income level are as follows:
     1. Sales  55% (2.2  2.5 billion m3) of annual average volume of sold gas (3.9-4.0 billion
     m3-100%) is sold to the population at tariff rates 3.3 times lower than actual costs (1000 m3  118
     000 manat).
                        This factor only causes Azerigas JSC to lose 193.7 billion manat


                                                     - 25 -

                        (2.35 billion m3X 118 000) (2.35 billion m3X 35 660 manat)=193.7 billion manat.
    2. The tariffs charges to "Azeraluminium OTJSC, Ganja Gill-Torpag IS (that consume 300 mln m3
    a year in average) and similar kinds of facilities lower for 90 655 manat per 1000 m3 of gas than set
    tariffs (236 000 manat per 1000 m3).
             This results in Azerigas JSC being deprived of (300.0 m3 X 90 655)=27.2 billion manat of its
             income.
    3. Due to the low tariffs charged to AzerKimya for gas supplied to boiler (300.0 m3) (set tariff  236
    000 manat, actual cost of production  118 000 manat) the level of loses was (300.0 m3 X 118
    000)=35.4 billion manat.

         As it is shown in the report, since project initiation till 2002, the objective of reduction of technical
loses (in 2002 vs. 1997) set as one of the project goals was resulted in saving 393.0 million m3 of gas
which worth 19.7 million USD as per international market price (USD50 per 1000 m3).

         The main objective of the project  the improvement of the financial status of Azerigas JSC just
based on this factor can be considered as accomplished. Even if one would consider the credit proceeds as
long-term investment, the 100% of return rate for 5 years (1997-2002) can quote for substantially
satisfactory performance. In addition to that, the volume of technical loses for 9 months of 2003 had
reduces for 105 million m3 in compare to 2002, which makes another USD5.3 million as per calculation
shown above. Only this point indicates the project benefit worth USD5.3 million. Together with all of
above, there were some gaps, that were not dependent from Azerigas JSC for 90% (re-evaluation of capital
assets of BMUS, setting off loses) re-evaluation of materials and goods and selling those at low prices):

         Page 10. Last paragraph
         There should be "900 tones of uncoated pipes" instead of "900 tons of coated pipes"

         Page 24. Paragraph 4.
         There should be "6216 items by October..." instead of " less than 1600 of those by October...."

         Please take into the consideration the above indicated notes while compiling the final version of the
report and hereby we confirm our readiness to discuss these issues at any time

         Head of the Gas facilities
         development projects and
         investment department                                         E. Mammadov

         Head of the Economic and
         forecasting department                                        T. Allahverdiyev

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                      - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
promote more efficient use of gas and reduce No Log Frame was included in the SAR.
technical and non-technical losses
improve the physical accounting for gas and
encourage an improved commercial basis for
gas trading
ensure efficient operation and preserve the
value of the existing pipeline assets
support the commercialization of Azerigaz

The logframe matrix was not used at appraisal.
Output Indicators:
                                                                            1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of Meters Installed                                                          57,336, of which 2,956 installed;
                                                                                    Doublecheck with Azerigaz (their report says
                                                                                    as of 10/2001)
Number of new computers installed                                                   ? Check with Azerigaz
Reduction in technical and non-technical                                            Technical and non-technical losses were
losses                                                                              reduced from ___% at appraisal to ___%, but
                                                                                    it is not clear how much is attributatble
                                                                                    directly to the project and how much to
                                                                                    outside factors, such as constrained gas
                                                                                    supply.
Improvement in collections rate from 75% to
90%
Implementation of Cathodic protection                                               48 cathodic protection stations and 6 current
program - percent of network protected                                              drainage stations have been installed and are
                                                                                    operating. (Appraisal target was a
                                                                                    percentage. Need more info to compare.)
Acquire Leak Detection equipment and                                                In 1999 & 2000 about 150 leaks were
initiate survey program                                                             detected and repaired. SAR used a %.
                                                                                    Check with PIU.
Industrial Gas Consumption / Industrial
Output (MCM/$'000)
Total Gas Consumption/GDP (MCM/$'000)
Network Modelling                            100%                                   0%
Gas Analysis Laboratory                      100%                                   100%

1End of project




                                                            - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal      Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                              Estimate          Estimate          Appraisal
                        Component                            US$ million      US$ million
Metering                                                         11.00               9.67                81
Cathodic Protection                                               4.80               5.11               106
Analytical Equipment                                              1.40               1.06                75
Corporatization Support                                           2.40               2.61               109




Total Baseline Cost                                              19.60             18.45
 Physical Contingencies                                           2.90
 Price Contingencies                                              2.10
                           Total Project Costs                   24.60             18.45
                   Total Financing Required                      24.60             18.45


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                 2          N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                             0.00              0.00          0.00             0.00           0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                             18.20             0.00          2.50             0.00           20.70
                                    (15.40)           (0.00)         (2.00)          (0.00)         (17.40)
3. Services                          0.00              0.00          3.50             0.00           3.50
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (2.50)          (0.00)          (2.50)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00          0.40             0.00           0.40
(Refinancing of PPF)                 (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.40)          (0.00)          (0.40)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00          0.00             0.00           0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00          0.00             0.00           0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
   Total                             18.20             0.00          6.40             0.00           24.60
                                    (15.40)           (0.00)         (4.90)          (0.00)         (20.30)
Notes: Figures in ( ) are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit. Discrepancies may occur due to
rounding.
1. Costs include contingencies.
2. Office equipment would be procured by International Shopping (IS). Goods of a specialized nature
(analytical equipment and meter testing equipment) would be procured by Limited International Bidding
(LIB). Consulting services would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (August 1981).




                                                   - 28 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 10.44              0.00              4.68             0.82             15.94
                                          (10.44)            (0.00)            (4.68)            (0.00)           (15.12)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              2.08             0.40              2.48
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.08)            (0.00)           (2.08)
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
  (Refinancing of PPF)                    (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.03             0.00              0.03
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.03)            (0.00)           (0.03)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                10.44              0.00              6.79             1.22             18.45
                                          (10.44)            (0.00)            (6.79)            (0.00)           (17.23)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Metering                      11.90         1.80                     8.88         0.79                  74.6      43.9
Cathodic Protection            4.87         1.38                     5.09         0.02                  104.5     1.4
Analytical Equipment           1.23         0.49                     1.05         0.01                  85.4      2.0
Corporatization Support        2.20         0.73                                                         0.0      0.0
                                                                     2.08

                                                                     0.13         0.40
TOTAL                         20.20         4.40                    17.23         1.22                  85.3      27.7

  Contingencies are included in each component.




                                                          - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The SAR for the project anticipated that economic benefits would arise from two main sources: (i)
reduction in technical losses as a result of improved metering and leak detection, and (ii) more efficient use
of gas by customers. The latter benefit was expected to result from (i) extension of gas metering which
would allow customers to control their gas bills; (ii) elimination of non-technical losses which would
similarly induce customers to use gas more efficiently. These efficiency benefits were contingent, however,
on improved payment discipline within the gas sector, particularly with respect to collections from
customers. As noted in section 4, however, there was little sustained improvement in collections
throughout the period of the project, as the government consistently failed to support any actions on the
part of Azerigaz to ensure that customers paid for gas supply.

Thus, while there were improvements in the efficiency of gas use over the period of the project, it is
difficult to attribute these to project investments. Rather, they are more likely to have arisen as a result of
the government's decision to limit available gas supply to those that could be provided through domestic
resources.

With respect to loss reduction, the table below summarizes the change in gas supply, consumption and
losses over the period of project implementation.

Azerbaijan Gas Balances - 1995 - 2002

                                                            1995         1996        1997       1998       1999    2000
Gas Supply
  Import                                                  594.0           -           -         -           -     293.0
  SOCAR                                                 6,665.0       5,325.0     4,903.6   4,539.3    4,843.3  4,643.2

Net Extracted from Underground Gas Storage                169.0                       5.7      (80.6)     92.0     30.5

Gas Available                                           7,428.0       5,325.0     4,909.3   4,458.7    4,935.3  4,966.7

Total Losses/Own Use                                      712.0         666.0      545.2      432.1      662.2    527.1
Percent Losses                                              9.6%        12.5%       11.1%       9.7%     13.4%    10.6%

Gas Supplied to Customers                               6,716.0       4,659.0     4,364.1   4,026.6    4,273.1  4,439.6

Gas consumption by Customer Classification              6,710.0       4,659.0     4,364.1   4,026.6    4,273.1  4,439.6

  Households                                            2,447.0       1,654.0     1,488.9   1,425.4    1,637.5  1,701.6
  Communal objects                                      1,226.0         774.0      871.3      834.6      819.2    741.4
  Industrial                                              946.0         623.0      402.9      343.5      415.3    446.6
  SOCAR                                                   988.0         165.0      200.0      130.4      133.5    115.4
  Azerenerji JSV                                        1,103.0       1,443.0     1,401.0   1,292.7    1,267.6  1,434.6



The figures show a significant improvement in the level of losses over the period of project implementation.
In fact, the degree of improvement is almost certainly understated since, at the beginning of the
implementation period, Azerigaz did not have a full system for measurement of either gas receipts or gas
deliveries to customers. With the exception of a few large industrial customers, gas consumption was
"estimated" based on normatives such as persons per household or diameter of the input pipe. During
preparation, the consultants estimated that actual losses were probably a minimum of 15 percent.



                                                     - 30 -

The degree to which the reduced losses are attributable to the project is questionable. When new meters
were installed at the points of gas delivery from SOCAR in 1998-99, it was found that the amounts
received by Azerigaz were considerably less than had been estimated, and hence that gas receipts had been
overstated. In addition, the reduction in pressure in the pipeline network helped to reduce the rate of
leakage through moderately worn sections of pipe. Notwithstanding the uncertainty regarding the degree to
which the project contributed to loss reduction, the savings over the period of implementation amounted to
approximately 393 million cubic meters of gas per year. Valued at import parity (approximately US$50
per MCM), this represents an annual benefit of $19.6 million. A more conservative estimate of the
economic benefits attributable to the project might assume that the first 4 percentage points of loss savings
(between the estimated 1995 level of 15% and the measured 1997 level of 11%) were attributable to more
accurate measurement of gas received into the system from the production fields (which do not represent an
economic benefit), and that only the savings in excess of these amounts are an economic benefit of the
project. On this basis, the average annual reduction in losses would amount to 69.7 million m3 per year,
worth on average $3.5 million (see table A3.1 below). If benefits continue at this average level for another
5 years, the ERR on the project would be 23.9 percent, and the NPV (at 10 percent) would be $6.96
million. If benefits continue at the level of the most recent year, the ERR would be 44.1 percent, and the
NPV would be $26.83 million (table A3.2).

Table A3.1

Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits
 Benefits Maintained at 1997 - 2002 Average Level

                                                       1997      1998       1999     2000      2001      2002   2003

Project Cost ($ millions)                  17.30      (2.88)    (2.88)     (2.88)   (2.88)    (2.88)    (2.88)

Reduction in Losses                million m3         (5.18)    58.36    (119.32)  19.24    209.44     255.42   69.66

Value of Loss Reduction            $ 50/MCM           (0.26)     2.92      (5.97)    0.96    10.47      12.77   3.48

Net Cash Flow                                         (3.14)     0.03      (8.85)   (1.92)     7.59      9.89   3.48

Net Present Value @                         10%      $6.96
ERR                                                  23.9%

Table A3.2




                                                     - 31 -

Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits
 Benefits Maintained at 2002 Level
                                                      1997       1998       1999     2000      2001     2002   2003

Project Cost ($ millions)                 17.30      (2.88)     (2.88)     (2.88)   (2.88)    (2.88)   (2.88)

Reduction in Losses                 million m3       (5.18)     58.36   (119.32)   19.24    209.44    255.42  255.42

Value of Loss Reduction             $ 50/MCM         (0.26)      2.92      (5.97)    0.96     10.47    12.77  12.77

Net Cash Flow                                        (3.14)      0.03      (8.85)   (1.92)     7.59     9.89  12.77

Net Present Value @                         10%    $26.83
ERR                                                 41.1%

Over the longer term, assuming that the full level of domestic demand is satisfied through continued
imports and/or Caspian gas from the Shah Deniz development, the benefits of improved metering, leak
detection, and pipe replacement could be more substantial. In addition, if payment discipline is ultimately
restored through privatization and/or a firmer government commitment to full cost recovery for the gas
sector, the anticipated benefits associated with more efficient use of gas may ultimately be realized.




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              February 1994             1    Task Manager
              June 1994                 4    Task Manager (1), Operations
                                             Officer (1), Oil/Gas Specialist (2)
              November 1994             2    Oil/Gas Specialist (2)
              January 1995              3    Task Manager (1), Oil/Gas
                                             Specialist (2)
              March 1995                     Task Manager (1), Consultant (1)
              May 1995                  4    Task Manager (1), Financial
                                             Analyst (1), Oil/Gas Specialist
                                             (2)
              September 1995            5    Task Manager (1), Financial
              (Preappraisal)                 Analyst (1), Oil/Gas Specialist
                                             (2), Consultant (1)
              October 1995

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              January 1996              5    Task Manager (1), Oil/Gas
              (Appraisal)                    Specialist (1), Financial
                                             Analyst (1), Consultant (2)
              April 1996                4    Task Manager (1), Consultant
                                             (2), Institutional Specialist (1)
              June 1996                 1    Task Manager (1)
              July 1996                 1    Financial Analyst (1)

 Supervision

              10/18/1996                5    PRIN. OPER. OFFICER (1);                HS             HS
                                             CO-TASK MANAGER (2);
                                             OIL/GAS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              02/01/1997                3    TECHNICAL (1); TASK                     S               S
                                             MANAGER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL/INST'L (1)
              09/07/1997                2    TECHNICAL/PROCUREMENT                   S               S
                                             (1); TEAM LEADER (1)
              06/20/1998                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                        S               U
              02/06/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); OIL               S               S
                                             & GAS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              06/09/1999                3    TEAM LEADER (1); OIL &                  S               S
                                             GAS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              06/09/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                        S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             TECHNICAL/PROCUREMENT



                                              - 33 -

                                                     (1)
               12/12/2000                       2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                 S                S
                                                     PROJECT OFFICER (1)
               04/29/2001                       2    TASK MANAGER (1);                     S                S
                                                     OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               01/18/2002                       3    TTL (1); FMS (1);                     S                S
                                                     OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               10/11/2002                       3    TTL (1); OPERATIONS                   S                U
                                                     ADVISER (1); FMS (1)


 ICR
               11/2003                         2     TTL (1); Operations Officer
                                                     (1), FMS (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             Not available
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  Not available                        391.79
  Supervision                            Not available                        541.45
  ICR                                    Not available
  Total                                  Not available                        923.24
SAP does not provide a breakdown of costs by staff week. It does not distinguish between
Identification/Preparation and Appraisal/Negotiations, or between Supervision and ICR. Therefore all
costs related to lending are included in the Appraisal/Negotiations entry above, and all costs related to ICR
are included in the entry for supervision. Cost amounts do not include trust funds, which amounted to:
$227,297 for Lending and $7,975 for Supervision.




                                                     - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report - Azerbaijan Republic: Gas System Rehabilitation Project - Report No. 15378-AZ,
August 2, 1996.
 Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, between the International Development Association (IDA) and the
Azerbaijan Republic, dated July 10, 1996.
 Development Credit Agreement - Azerbaijan Republic: Gas System Rehabilitation Project (Credit No.
2923-AZ), dated October 2, 1996.
 Project Agreement - Azerbaijan Republic: Gas System Rehabilitation Project, between IDA and Azerigaz,
dated October 2, 1996.
 Audited Financial Statements for the Project
 Audited Financial Statements for Azerigaz
Procurement Audit Report -
Monthly (first year) and bi-monthly Progress Reports.




                                                 - 37 -

- 38 -

