Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15825
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
PLANNING SUPPORT AND SPECIAL STUDIES PROJECT
(Cr. 1835-CHA)
June 26, 1996
Country Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Yuan (Y)
April. 1987                            December, 1994
US$ 1= Y 3.71                          US$ 1 = Y 8.70
Y1  =$0.27                            Y I  =$0.115
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAPRC        Audit Administration of People's Republic of China
CICC         China Investment Consulting Corporation
CIECC        China International Engineering Consulting Corporation
MOF          Ministry of Finance
NPTC         National Planners' Training Center
PBC          People's Bank of China
PRC          People's Republic of China
PSSSP        Planning Support and and Special Studies Project
RMB          Renminbi
SPC          State Planning Commission
TATD         Technical Assistance and Training Division
TCC I        Technical Cooperation Credit I
TCC II       Technical Cooperation Credit II



FOR OFFIaAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
PLANNING SUPPORT AND SPECIAL STUDIES PROJECT
(Cr. 1835-CHA)
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary
Project Implementation Assessment                                                 1
A.       Project Objectives and Evaluation                                        1
B.       Achievement of Project Objectives                                        2
C.       Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project            4
D.       Project Sustainability                                                   6
E.       IDA Performance                                                          7
F.       Borrower Performance                                                     7
G.       Assessment of Outcome                                                    8
H.       Future Operations                                                        8
I.       Key Lessons Learned                                                      8
Statistical Annexes
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments                                                 10
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits                                             11
Table 3:   Project Timetable                                                      12
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements -- Cumulative Estimated and Actual                12
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation                              13
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation                                   13
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project                                            14
Table 8a:  Project Costs                                                          15
Table 8b:  Project Financing                                                      15
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits                                            15
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants                                              16
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                          16
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                           16
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions                                               17
Annexes:
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire (December 16, 1994)                                     18
B.  State Planning Commission's Contribution to Implementation Completion Report  23
C.  Subproject Implementation Summaries                                           29
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



I



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
PLANNING SUPPORT AND SPECIAL STUDIES PROJECT
(Cr. 1835-CHIA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Planning Support and
Special Studies Project in the People's Republic of China, for which Credit 1835-CHA in the
amount of SDR 15.9 million (US$20.7 million equivalent) was approved on June 30, 1987, and
made effective on December 11, 1987. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1994, after two
years of extension. Final disbursement was made on January 26, 1995, at which time SDR 14.4
milhon (US$20.0 million equivalent) had been disbursed. A balance of SDR 1,532,670
(approximately US$2,260,075) was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Natasha Beschorner and David Rix, Country Operations
Division, China and Mongolia Department, East Asia and Pacific Region, and reviewed by Klaus
Rohland, Division Chief, and Juergen Voegele, Acting Project Advisor. The Borrower provided
comments which are included as an annex to the ICR.
The ICR is based on material in the project file and interviews with IDA and
Borrower staff involved in project implementation. The Borrower's views on project
implementation are reflected in the mission's aide-memoire (Annex A), in the Borrower's
contribution to the ICR (Annex B), and in comments on the draft ICR. Borrower agencies
responsible for implementation of sub-projects under the Credit provided individual evaluations of
sub-project execution (Annex C).



I



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
PLANNING SUPPORT AND SPECIAL STUDIES PROJECT
(CR. 1835-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.   In the 1980s, the People's Republic of China (PRC) began to undertake major
reforms in macroeconomic policy and planning. The Government requested IDA support
for developing the capacity of key institutions to implement these reforms. The Planning
Support and Special Studies Project (PSSSP), approved in June, 1987, was developed in
response to this request.
2.    The PSSSP was designed to assist the PRC in strengthening its development policy
and planning capability; in preparing and implementing intersectoral and innovative
technical assistance projects; and in strengthening key institutions responsible for
economic and financial reform. It financed a series of individual sub-projects, each with its
own specific objectives. The Credit consisted of two components: (a) a line of credit for
training, technical assistance and equipment to improve the efficiency of economic
management agencies; and (b) the financing of consultant services, equipment and training
programs for the execution of major sectoral studies. Implementation was handled jointly
by the State Planning Commission (SPC) and the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Sub-project
agencies were responsible for implementation of individual sub-projects. Institutional co-
ordination presented a continual challenge for IDA and the Borrower.
3.    The broad project objectives reflected IDA's country assistance strategy for the
late 1980s. This strategy aimed to help China remove critical constraints in key sectors of
the economy, particularly energy, transport, industry, agriculture, human resources
development and technology transfer. The PSSSP's objectives were to promote the
effective use of external resources through improved project planning and selection. The
flexibility of project design enabled modification and inclusion of a range of sub-projects in
priority areas, as the nature of the demand for institutional development assistance and
type of policy advice evolved during the project's lifetime.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project achieved a good balance among the three primary objectives. Seven
sub-projects supported the strengthening of development policy and planning capabilities.
They enhanced the technical expertise of agency staff, and strengthened ties between
domestic and international institutions. The results and findings were taken into account in
national planning decisions. Five intersectoral and innovative technical assistance
programs were successfully implemented. In addition to their immediate practical benefits



- iii -
in specific sectors, these sub-projects strengthened the capacity of the implementing
agencies in research and analytical techniques, and broadened contacts with international
institutions. They fostered the development of core groups of technical personnel. A
further seven sub-projects focused on strengthening key planning institutions in economic
and financial reform. These sub-projects exposed agency staff to international policies,
procedures and skills, and developed their expertise in project management and
preparation. In some cases, joint participation in seminars or study tours facilitated inter-
agency cooperation and resulted in the establishment of formal working relations. One
sub-project was canceled at the Government's request.
5.    The sustainability of the project is likely to be maintained. The experience which
the participating agencies acquired in the implementation of the project resulted in further
borrowing for technical assistance. Strengthening institutional capacity has also facilitated
the implementation of subsequent investment projects. Some sub-projects have led to
further operations (see Annex C). The findings and recommendations of specific studies,
such as the Yellow River Basin Economic Modelling Study, and the Study of National
Flood Control and Dispatch System, have had a marked impact on development of
subsequent investment operations.
6.    The original Credit amount was SDR 15.9 million (US$20.7 million in 1987). A
total of US$20 million was disbursed. The final disbursement was made on January 26,
1995, 25 months after the original closing date of December 31, 1992. Disbursements
proceeded slowly in the first three years owing to delayed implementation of agreed sub-
projects, over and under-estimation of funding requirements, late approval of additional
activities and funding under existing sub-projects, and delayed formulation and approval of
new sub-projects. The total foreign exchange cost of the project was US$20.0 million.
Local project cost data are not available.
7.    In the first two years of implementation, sub-project progress was somewhat
uneven. Four sub-projects could not be completed and one was subsequently canceled.
By July 1990, in the third year of implementation, only 30% of Credit proceeds had been
disbursed. By the Credit closing in December 1994, about 85% of Credit proceeds had
been disbursed.
8.    The principal factors affecting project implementation, and therefore the timely
achievement of project objectives were: (a) the fluctuating US dollar/SDR exchange rate,
resulting in over-allocation of resources in US dollar terms to individual subprojects, and
reduction of disbursements in SDR terms; (b) the impact of austerity and stabilization
measures undertaken in China in the late 1980s; (c) the political events of 1989 which led
to a hiatus in international contacts; (d) reorganization of government ministries and
agencies; and (e) problems of coordination between SPC, MOF and subproject
implementing agencies. Erratic reporting impeded consistent project monitoring.
Implementation was constrained at times by the lack of a detailed implementation
schedule and particularly by the failure to establish a clear institutional co-ordination and
sub-project monitoring mechanism at the outset.



- iv-
9.    IDA's performance was generally satisfactory. This was an innovative credit
designed to involve a large number of agencies. The project was, however, highly
demanding for IDA staff involved in project monitoring and supervision, particularly in the
evaluation of sub-project proposals. IDA could have provided, in the early stages of
project implementation, more guidance to subproject implementing agencies in
procurement and consultant hiring, and in preparation of terms of reference. IDA
attempted to remedy the problems of slow disbursement and irregular reporting by
preparing new guidelines for progress reporting and proposal preparation with SPC. In
addition, IDA demonstrated flexibility in agreeing to project extensions and approving
new sub-projects in order to allocate undisbursed funds most effectively, and was highly
responsive to the government's changing priorities.
10.   The overall performance of SPC and MOF was satisfactory. However, it was not
consistent, in particular because of SPC's limited experience in project management and
international procurement procedures. IDA underestimated this lack of experience. The
wide range and variety of sub-projects, and the large number of implementing agencies
involved, made project co-ordination demanding for both SPC and MOF. Compliance
with reporting requirements was erratic and the quality of reporting extremely variable.
The formulation of sub-project proposals was particularly inconsistent. SPC and MOF
should have taken a more proactive role in progress monitoring, provision of workplans
and progress reports. Financial co-ordination between MOF and sub-project implementing
agencies was often weak, particularly with regard to information on funding availability.
The Borrower's performance improved in the course of project implementation.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12.   Notwithstanding some of the practical problems of implementation, overall project
outcome is rated as satisfactory. The project achieved its primary objectives, and
contributed to the capacity-building of participating agencies, and increasing technical
expertise in specific sectors. Sub-project implementing agencies gained experience in
project management, consultant hiring, procurement, work planning, progress monitoring
and reporting, even if performance was erratic.
13.   The PSSSP formed part of a group of umbrella technical assistance projects
approved and implemented from 1983 to the present. More recently-approved and
pipeline technical assistance operations are focusing on specific sectors: supporting
financial sector reform, environmental management, economic law reform, and fiscal
reform.
14.   The experience of PSSSP provides four principal lessons for effective
implementation of technical assistance projects in China. The first is the need to designate
a single entity with responsibility for project implementation, and to define monitoring and
accountability mechanisms and reporting requirements at the outset. IDA should take the
lead in this regard. Second, clear definition of sub-projects and an implementation



schedule at the time of appraisal is more resource-efficient. A line of credit approach
allows for flexibility, but is highly staff intensive. A sub-project approach also helps to
maintain a balance of activities between overseas training and in-country seminars, and
reduces bias towards overseas training and equipment purchase. Third, participating
agencies should provide a thorough assessment of training needs and likely staff
deployment early in the implementation process. Finally, both IDA and the co-ordinating
agencies should pay greater attention to assisting sub-project implementing agencies in
following IDA guidelines on procurement, particularly of international consultants.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
PLANNING SUPPORT AND SPECIAL STUDIES PROJECT
(CR. 1835-CHA)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.   In the 1980s, the People's Republic of China (PRC) began to undertake major reforms in
macroeconomic policy and planning. These reforms were designed to bring about a shift from
centralized, direct controls and to increase reliance on indirect controls and macroeconomic policy
instruments. This undertaking required considerable strengthening of the analytical capacity and
organizational framework of leading institutions involved in the reforms, particularly the State
Planning Commission (SPC), the People's Bank of China (PBC), and financial departments of
sector ministries and agencies. Since 1980, the Bank/IDA had been providing technical assistance
and training to China as a key element of the country's economic reform and modernization
process. To further support its reform efforts, the Government specifically requested IDA
support for medium and long-term planning studies as a background to preparation of the Eighth
Five-Year Plan (1991-95), for technical assistance in staff development, data collection and policy
planning, and analysis and research, and for provision of advisory services and training. The
Planning Support and Special Studies Project (PSSSP), approved in June, 1987, was developed to
meet the Government's needs in these areas.
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND EVALUATION
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the Planning Support and Special Studies Project, as defined in the
President's Report and Recommendation (P-4599-CHA), were to assist the PRC in: (a)
strengthening its development policy and planning capability; (b) preparing and implementing
intersectoral and innovative technical assistance projects; and (c) strengthening key institutions
responsible for economic and financial reform. The project was designed to finance a series of
individual subprojects, and in the context of the project's overall objectives, each subproject had
its own more specific objectives. These are identified in the sub-project descriptions provided in
Annex C.
Evaluation of Objectives
3.    The overall project objectives reflected IDA's assistance strategy, which was to help
China remove critical constraints in key sectors of the economy -- particularly energy, transport,
industry, agriculture, human resources development, and technology transfer -- and to strengthen



-2-
institutions involved in reform. IDA was also seeking to promote the effective use of external
resources through improved project planning and selection. The project was intended to
complement the Second Technical Cooperation Credit (TCC II) (Cr. 1664), approved in 1986,
which was used to prepare investment projects for eventual IBRD financing. It was designed to
provide a line of credit for training, technical assistance and equipment to improve the efficiency
of economic management agencies, and financing for consultant services, equipment and training
programs associated with major sectoral studies. It was implemented through a series of sub-
projects, separately prepared and proposed, throughout the project implementation period. The
flexibility of this design enabled a range and variety of sub-projects in priofity areas to be
included in the project, as the nature of the demand for institutional development assistance and
for types of policy advice evolved throughout the project's lifetime.
4.    Project implementation was handled jointly by SPC's Comprehensive Planning
Department and the Technical Assistance and Training Division of the World Bank Department of
the Ministry of Finance (MOF). SPC was responsible for overall coordination of the project and
for progress monitoring, while MOF was responsible for its financial administration. Sub-project
agencies were responsible for planning, implementation and progress monitoring of individual
sub-projects. Although SPC had the responsibility for approving sub-projects proposed by these
agencies, some concern was expressed by SPC at an early stage about the lack of a cohesive
vision and coordination among project activities.
5.    No inordinate risks or implementation problems were identified at appraisal. However, this
was the first project to be coordinated by SPC. The agency's limited experience in project
management, and in particular with international procurement procedures, was underestimated in
the appraisal process. The wide range and variety of sub-projects, coupled with the large number
of implementing agencies involved, made project supervision highly demanding for both the SPC
and MOF. For these reasons, the project was also highly demanding for IDA staff involved in
project monitoring and supervision. Considerable staff time and expertise were required,
particularly in the evaluation of sub-project proposals from the participating agencies. A further
unanticipated risk related to duplication of effort across agencies where similar skills development
was required.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    The project achieved a good balance among the three primary objectives (capacity
development, sectoral assistance, and institutional development) across nineteen of the twenty
sub-projects approved under the project. One sub-project -- Key Machinery and Basic Products
(Sub-project #16) -- was canceled at the request of the Government. A more detailed analysis of
specific project activities and outcomes is shown in Annex C.
Capacity Development Objectives
7.    Seven sub-projects supported the strengthening of development policy and planning
capabilities: Planning of Electrical Power in Eastern China and Sichuan (Sub-project # 5),
Petrochemical Development Plan (Sub-project #6), Formulation of a Science and Technology



-3 -
Development Plan (Sub-project #12), Organization and Regulation of a Futures Market (Sub-
project #9), Pricing Study (Sub-project #10), Planning of Electronics Industry Development
(Sub-project #15), and Energy Price Research (Sub-project #17). These sub-projects significantly
enhanced the technical expertise of participating agency staff, and strengthened ties between
domestic and international institutions. The results and findings were taken into account in
national planning decisions.
Sectoral Objectives
8.    The project financed the successful implementation of five intersectoral and innovative
technical assistance programs: Yellow River Basin Economic Modelling Study (Sub-project
#13), Development of Basic Scientific Research (Sub-project #14), Poverty Alleviation (Sub-
project #18), Study of National Flood Control and Dispatch System (Sub-project #19), and
Promotion of Quality Assurance (Sub-project #20). In addition to their immediate practical
benefits, these sub-projects strengthened the capacity of the agencies concerned in research and
analytical techniques, and broadened contacts with international institutions. They fostered the
development of core groups of technical personnel.
Institutional Development Objectives
9.    The project made a major contribution to strengthening key planning institutions in
economic and financial reform through seven sub-projects: Reinforcing Planning Commission
and Strengthening Planning Tools (Sub-project #1), Management of Govemment Finance (Sub-
project #2), Institutional Development of the People's Bank of China (Sub-project #3), Training
of Planning Officials (Sub-project #4), Promotion of China's Consulting Industry (Sub-project
#7), Development Strategy for the China Investment Consulting Corporation (CICC) (Sub-
project #8), and Development of Audit Capability (Sub-project #11). Implementation of these
sub-projects exposed agency staff to international policies, procedures and skills and developed
their expertise in project management. This consequently strengthened government capacity for
project preparation, and improved the capability of local consulting industries in project
management, particularly procurement issues. In some cases, joint participation in seminars or
study tours facilitated inter-agency cooperation and resulted in the establishment of formal
working relations.
Studies
10.   The studies carried out under individual PSSSP sub-projects yielded the most wide-
reaching benefits of all project components. They have made a significant contribution to the
analytical capacity of sub-project agencies, and to project sustainability in general. In some cases,
they have been used to prepare follow-up investment operations, financed by IBRD loans. A total
of eleven sets of studies were carried out under the project, under the aegis of several sub-
projects. Two of these, on petrochemicals and electric power in Sichuan and Eastern China, were
undertaken in conjunction with sub-projects identified during appraisal (#5, #6), and the
remainder in conjunction with sub-projects approved later in the project implementation period.



- 4-
A planned study on iron and steel was dropped in 1989 at the request of SPC. SPC decided not to
proceed with the study in the absence of a IDA lending operation for iron and steel investment.
11.  Individual studies made important contributions in the development of energy policy,
water resources management flood control, and understanding of market economic systems.
PSSSP-financed studies were particularly valuable in preparation of some major investment
projects. For example, the Yellow River Basin Economic Modelling Study (Subproject #13) was
used as a basis for the 1992 Yellow River Investment Planning Study, and ultimately in
preparation of the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project (Ln. 3727-CHA). It radically increased the
efficiency of modelling techniques used by the implementing agencies. Reports produced under
the Planning of Electrical Power in Eastern China and Sichuan (Subproject #5) were used in the
planning of several IBRD operations, such as the Ertan Hydro Project (Ln. 3387-CHA), and the
Sichuan Transmission Project (Ln. 3848-CHA).
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
Implementation Record
12.   The project provided financing for consultant services, training, equipment and materials
for conducting comprehensive sector planning studies; preparing and implementing innovative
technical assistance activities through advisory services and studies; and strengthening key
institutions responsible for the government's economic and financial reform program through in-
service education and training. At the time of project appraisal, eight sub-projects had already
been identified, and of these, seven had been approved. Three sub-projects were for sector
planning studies (iron and steel, petrochemicals, and electric power generation), and five for
institutional strengthening (for SPC, SPC's National Planners' Training Center (NPTC), China
International Engineering Consulting Corporation (CIECC), PBC and MOF). These sub-projects
were expected to be completed before June 1990. Other sub-projects were to be identified during
the first year of project implementation, and proposals submitted according to guidelines outlined
in the Development Credit Agreement. Transport, chemicals, mining, and water resource
management were considered priority sectors.
13.  In total, twenty sub-projects were identified for implementation under the project. Of
these, one (Key Machinery and Basic Products Study--Subproject #16) was canceled in March
1994 at the request of the Government. Reform of the industrial sector and resultant changes in
the role of the responsible ministry meant that this sub-project could not proceed as originally
intended. Of the nineteen sub-projects implemented, nine were approved in 1987-88, three each in
1989, 1990 and 1992, and one in 1994. Extensions of sub-project activities, with corresponding
additional allocations of Credit proceeds, were approved in 1993 and 1994 for eight sub-projects
(# 1-4, 7,9,11,12). These sub-projects had made good progress in their initial phases and had
substantially completed the work. At the time of Credit closing, 15 sub-projects had been
completed or were in the final stages of implementation. Four sub-projects -- mainly those



-5-
approved in the later stages of the project implementation period -- had been partially completed
by the closing date.
14.  In the first two years of implementation, sub-project progress was somewhat uneven.
Four sub-projects could not be completed and one (for US$1.3 million) was subsequently
canceled. Disbursements in the first three years proceeded slowly owing to delayed
implementation of agreed sub-projects, over and under-estimation of funding requirements,
approval of additional activities and funding under existing sub-projects, and delayed formulation
and approval of new sub-projects. By July 1990, in the third year of implementation, only 30% of
Credit proceeds had been disbursed. By the time of the Credit closing in December 1994, about
85% of Credit proceeds had been disbursed. On the subsequent closing of the Credit account in
June 1995, over 90% of the Credit proceeds (in SDRs) had been disbursed. About US$2.26
million (SDR1,532,670) remained undisbursed, and six sub-projects carried over substantial
undisbursed balances (see Annex C). Over half of the total undisbursed balance was attributable
to the cancellation of Sub-project #16 in 1993, which released US$1.3 million of Credit proceeds
into the 'unallocated' pool at a late stage in the project implementation period. The total foreign
exchange cost of the project was US$20 million. This was financed by IDA. The proposed
Government local cost contribution was US$11.7 million at the time of appraisal. However,
figures for Government contribution and local/foreign exchange cost breakdown were not
provided by SPC or MOF for this report.
15.   The Credit closed on December 31, 1994, two years after the original closing date. Two
12-month extensions of the closing date were approved: the first in July 1992, in the fifth year of
the project, and the second in September 1993, the sixth year. These extensions were approved to
enable completion of sub-projects that had suffered implementation delays, or that had been
proposed in the latter years of the project implementation period. At the time of the first extension
in 1992, 19 sub-projects had been approved, eight had been completed or were close to
completion, with the remainder expected to be completed by the new closing date of
December 31, 1993. In September 1993, it was clear that several sub-projects could not be
completed by December 1993 as originally intended, and that as a consequence, a significant
portion of the Credit would remain unutilized by that date. Accordingly, a second one-year
extension of the closing date to December 31, 1994, was approved. In late 1994, a further 12-
month extension to complete the Promotion of Quality Assurance (Sub-project #20) was
informally requested by MOF. However, it was agreed that, in view of the fact that two
extensions had already been granted, and that the availability of resources for continued formal
supervision of the project was extremely limited, the Credit would close in December 1994 as
planned.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
16.   Factors not subject to government control: A significant factor not subject to
government control was the fluctuating exchange rate for SDRs. Over-allocation of resources to
individual subprojects based on proposal cost estimates, and the resulting slowing of
disbursements, were in part attributable to fluctuations in the SDR/UJS$ rate, from SDR
1=US$1.30 at project inception to US$ 1.48 at closing, an increase in SDR value of almost 14



- 6-
percent. This increase in SDR value had the effect of increasing the equivalent US$ allocation to
individual subprojects, and of reducing project disbursements in SDR terms. A second significant
factor related to devaluation of the Chinese currency. Successive devaluations of Renminbi
(RMB) from US$1=Y3.7 in 1987 to Y5.8 in 1993 and to Y8.7 in 1994 caused problems with
counterpart fiund repayments from subproject implementing agencies, particularly the Audit
Administration of the PRC (AAPRC), the National Resources Center for Science and
Technology, and the Energy Research Institute of SPC.
17.   Factors subject to government control: A significant factor subject to government
control was the overall economic situation in China in the late 1980s. During 1988-91, the
government undertook a series of austerity and stabilization measures. This resulted in a
slowdown in sub-project preparation activities. Further, the political events of 1989 led to a
hiatus in international contacts, and a resulting difficulty in arranging overseas training courses,
visits by international experts, and professional exchanges with foreign government, academic and
research institutes. MOF, PBC and NPTC were most seriously affected. A second factor related
to government organization. The reorganization of the Ministry of Machinery and Electronics
Industry in 1993 resulted in the subsequent cancellation of the proposed Key Machinery and Basic
Products sub-project; and the reorganization of the State Flood Control Headquarters delayed
implementation of the National Flood Control and Dispatch System sub-project.
18.   Factors subject to implementing agency control: The principal factors affecting timely
project implementation were problems of coordination between SPC, MOF and subproject
implementing agencies, and erratic reporting. Incomplete subproject preparation or inadequate
proposal presentation, and changes in the scope of projects during implementation, resulted in
delays in execution of a proposed poverty study (Subproject #18) and rejection of a proposed
subproject for a study on south-north water transfer. MOF World Bank Department's system of
administering travel costs and expenses resulted in delays in fielding candidates for overseas
training and study tours. The first closing date extension necessary, because of the slow
implementation of the PBC, NPTC, CICC and AAPRC sub-projects, was attributed to inadequate
management among these agencies and little noticeable higher-level management support.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
19.   The sustainability of the project, defined as the commitment of the borrower to further
economic development by building on institutional capacity and technical expertise, is likely to be
maintained. The experience that the participating agencies acquired in the implementation of the
project resulted in further borrowing for similar technical assistance. The government
subsequently borrowed US$50 million equivalent from IDA in FY93 for project preparation and
institution-building under the Reform, Institutional Support, and Preinvestment Project (Cr.
2447). Strengthening institutional capacity has also facilitated the implementation of subsequent
investment projects. Some sub-projects have led to further operations (see Annex C) in the
sectors concerned. The findings and recommendations of specific studies were particularly
valuable, and also developed the analytical techniques of the relevant implementing agencies (see



- 7-
para 11). The PSSSP therefore had a catalytic effect on the work programs of these agencies:
they became active participants in new investment projects.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
20.   IDA performance was generally satisfactory. This was an innovative project involving a
large number of agencies. It was IDA's third technical assistance project in China, but its scope
was considerably broader than that of the previous two projects. The project was identified in
1986 and appraised in 1987. A total of 90.3 staffweeks were spent up to and including appraisal.
Implementation was constrained by the lack of a detailed implementation schedule and particularly
by the failure to establish at the outset a clear institutional coordination and sub-project
monitoring mechanism.
21. The project required 67.8 staffweeks of supervision, or 8.3 staffiweeks per project year. In
addition to semi-annual supervision missions, IDA financial and technical staff reviewed sub-
project proposals in detail. IDA attempted to remedy the problems of slow disbursement and
irregular reporting by preparing new guidelines for progress reporting and proposal preparation
with SPC. IDA could have provided, in the early stages of project implementation, more
guidance to subproject implementing agencies on procurement and consultant hiring, given the
concerns that these agencies expressed over the use of foreign consultants and preparation of
terms of reference. IDA demonstrated flexibility in agreeing to project extensions and approving
new sub-projects in order to allocate undisbursed funds most effectively, and was highly
responsive to the government's changing priorities.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
22.   Both SPC and MOF were responsible for project management. Their overall performance
was satisfactory, but inconsistent in certain areas. This was SPC's first experience with managing
a project of this complexity. In 1989 MOF established a dedicated World Bank Department and
within it, a Technical Assistance and Training Division (TATD). TATD suffered from high staff
turnover and under-staffing: TATD is responsible for supervision of all technical assistance
projects in China, including technical assistance components of IBRD-financed operations. TATD
also supervises four IDA technical assistance Special Accounts, arranges in-country IDA-financed
operations training, approves all study tours, and monitors procurement under IDA and IBRD-
financed projects.
23.   Coordination between SPC and MOF and nineteen sub-project implementing agencies
lacked consistency. Compliance with reporting requirements was erratic and the quality of
reporting extremely variable. SPC did not complete a progress report for 1992 or a 1993
consolidated budget and work program. The formulation of sub-project proposals by participating
agencies was inconsistent, despite the guidelines set out in the Development Credit Agreement
and the establishment of new guidelines during supervision. It was not always clear how
proposed studies reflected PRC's development priorities. In some cases, the emphasis in



-8-
proposals on overseas training and study tours was excessive, necessitating significant
modification of the proposals. SPC and MOF could have taken a more proactive role in proposal
review, progress monitoring, provision of workplans, and progress reports.
24.   Problems occurred with following IDA guidelines on procurement and selection of
consultants. Several agencies expressed reluctance to hire foreign consultants in view of high
costs, dissatisfaction with the past work of some foreign consultants and, in some cases,
disagreement over the content of terms of reference. Finally, the standard of accounting and
financial reporting to IDA was less than satisfactory, as was financial coordination between MOF
and sub-project implementing agencies: these were often not fully informed about the availability
of funds.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
25.   Overall project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The various tasks and activities (research,
studies, overseas and in-country training, study tours, conferences, seminars and workshops)
engendered direct and indirect benefits. The project increased the exposure of agency officials to
policies, practices and procedures in other countries and international institutions, thereby
increasing their knowledge, skills and capacity. The technical assistance activities fostered the
development of contacts and networks of experts through overseas tours and training. Joint
research programs led to the development of close working relations with foreign experts and
institutions, and attracted leading high-caliber policymakers from government and the private
sector to conferences and seminars. Sub-project implementing agencies gained experience in
project management, consultant hiring, procurement, work planning, progress monitoring, and
reporting, even if performance in some of these areas was somewhat erratic.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
26.   PSSSP was not intended as a stand-alone credit but formed part of a group of technical
assistance projects. The First Technical Assistance Credit (TCCI) (Cr. 1412), was approved in
1983 and financed US$10 million of pre-investment studies for over 24 IDA-supported projects.
The Second Technical Assistance Credit (TCCII) (Cr. 1664), was similar in scope to TCCI, and
financed US$20 million of preparation activities for investment projects and related institutional
development. Further technical assistance for institutional development for a variety of agencies
and for project preparation work is being provided under the Reform, Institutional Support, and
Preinvestment Project (Cr. 2447). Furthermore, several other technical assistance credits have
been approved, but the emphasis has shifted towards more sectorally-focused technical assistance:
US$60 million for the Financial Sector Technical Assistance project (Cr. 2423) in FY93, US$50
million for the Environment Technical Assistance project (Cr. 2522) in FY93, US$13 million for
the Economic Law Reform project (Cr. 2654) in FY95, and US$10 rnillion for the Fiscal
Technical Assistance project (Cr. 2709) in FY95.



- 9 -
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
27.   The experience of PSSSP provides four principal lessons for effective implementation of
technical assistance projects in China. The first is the need to designate a single entity with
responsibility for project implementation. In this regard, progress monitoring and accountability
mechanisms and reporting requirements should be clearly defined at the outset. This would help
to ensure consistency in sub-project objectives as well as maintain a balance of activities between
overseas training and in-country seminars, thereby reducing the inevitable bias towards overseas
training and equipment purchase. Second, a clear definition of sub-projects and an
implementation schedule at the time of appraisal is more resource-efficient. While a project that
provides a line of credit allows for flexibility and responsiveness to changing priorities and
circumstances, it is highly staff intensive. Third, participating agencies should provide a more
thorough assessment of training needs and likely staff deployment early in the implementation
process. Finally, both IDA and the coordinating agency should pay greater attention to assisting
sub-project implementing agencies in following IDA guidelines on procurement, particularly of
international consultants.



I



STATISTICAL ANNEXES



I



-10-
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Achievement of Objectives
Substantial Partial Negligible Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                             X
Sector policies                        X
Financial objectives                                                        X
Institutional development              X
Physical objectives                                                         X
Poverty reduction                                                           X
Gender concerns                                                             X
Other social objectives                                                     X
Environmental objectives                                                    X
Public sector management                           X
Private sector development       I_I                    I    X      I
Project Sustainability
Likely           |          Unlikely                   Uncertain
Bank Performance
Highly satisfactory      Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                                      X
Preparation assistance                              X
Appraisal                                           X
Supervision                                         X
Borrower Performance
Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                                     X
Preparation assistance                             X
Appraisal                                          X
Supervision         I_X
Assessment of Outcome
Highly satisfactory      Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory           Highly
l____________________ l_____X____i_____ i___  unsatisfactory
x_               ___                   __



-11-
Table 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Technical Coopration Credit    Financing of preinvestment studies        1983         Ckoud
(TCCI) (1412-CHA)
Technical Cooperation Credit    Financing of preinvestment studies       1986         Closed
(TCCI[) (1664-CHA)
Reform, institutional Support    Support of overall economic reform and  19           Active
and Preinvestment (CRISPP)   modernization effort. Strengthening of key
(2447-CHA)                   institutions reponsible for policy, research,
training and implementation, and
financing of preinvestment studies
Financial Sector Technical   Dwelopment of efficent and stable           1993         Active
Assistance (2423-CHA)        financial sector by strengthening key
institutions. Improving efficiency of
resource mobilization and allocation
Economic Law Reform          Assistance in preparation of economic       1994         Active
(26544CA)                    legislation in priority areas and
strengthening of key local institutions
responsible for legislation and
implemenation of economic law
Fiscal Technical Assistance  Implementation of fiscal reforms and        1995         Active
(2709-CHA)                   design of future reforms



- 12 -
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle         Date planned        Date actual/atest estimate
Identification                                               6/86
Preparation                        2/87                      2/87
Appraisal                          3/87                     3/30/87
Negotiations                       4/87                     5/22/87
Board presentation                 6/87                     6/30/87
Signing                            N/A                     9/14/87
Effectiveness                     9/30/87                  12/11/87
Project Completion                6/30/92                  12/31/94
Loan closing                      12/31/92                 12/31/94
Table 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS-CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
($million)
FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94   FY95
Appraisal estimate   1.2    5.2    10.2   15.2   19.2   20.7  (20.7)  (20.7)
Actual               1.5    2.1    3.1    6.4    9.7   13.1   15.9    16.6
Actual as % of       125    40      30      40     50      63      77      89
estimate
Date of Final                             January 26, 1995
Disbursement



- 13 -
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(not applicable)
Table 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
(not applicable)



-14 -
Table 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
(Numbers in parentheses refer to sub-projects under which the studies described were carried out)
Study                  Purpose us defied at     |Sthu Impact of study,
1. 1r_ and Stee            Fonnrmtaon of an optimal sub-    Dropped at request of SPC   n/
sector developmt strategy to
2000, to be chluded In the 5th
Five-Year Plan
2  ElctrIc Power (US)       Formdlio of development         CompIeed                  R -      e       _ --mwed hu 8th Five-Year Plan
rateg to meet eleic power
needs In E Chhi  and Sidman to
2000, to be bInuded In the 8th
Five-Year Plan
3. Pe_t1hmdcl (#)           Formulation of an optimal sub-  Completed (9 studies In   Recommendation used In h8  Five-Year PIla
sector development strategy to  total)
2000, to be Included In the 8th
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Five-Y ear   Pla       _  _   _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _ _ _  _   _  _  _  _  _
STUD)IES IDENTIFID D$URINGMPLEMNATO
4. Orpnizatio, and          Comnipritive study of internationdl  Completed (11 studles)  Facilltated development of regulations and
regulaio of a futures   futures markets                                            standardized procedures for Ibtd n markets.
nuist (#9)
5  Develop_met of Audit    Comparitve analys of Chinese     Completed (2 studIes)     Promoted deveopment and refinmet of audit
Capabity (#11)          and Intemaaonal Accounting                                legidsation.
Stadardb and audit
methodologles.
6. Formulaio and            Developing srategies for        Completed (7 studies)     Sckene and Technolgy component of 8th Five-
development of China's   Improved science and technology                          Year Plan Implemented succesafly; case
Science and Technology    planning In 8th FIve-Year Plan                          studies particularly uselbL
development pln (#12)
7. Yelow River Basin        Development of a program of     Completed (S sadks)       Developed a water resorces utlzation model
economc modelig (#13)  regionl water utilization                                  for use In long-tern resource planng and
supply/denand forecastng
a. Promot4ng deveopmt    Development of a national          Completed                 Strengthened the National Natl Science
of bIe sdentifc         scentifc research strategy                                Foundation's ability to tormulate scentific
rearch (#14)                                                                       rearch proposab.
9. Planning of Elctnes    Formulation of strategies for     Completed (7 studies)     Raised the level of strategk, technical and
lIdatry Development     China's electronics Indusry                               economic analysb In the Minibt of ElectronIcs
(#15)                                                                              Industry.
10. E      Sector Study     Macroeconomic analysis of       Completed (7 studies)     Coverage of a wide range of enerV sub-ecton
(#17)                   proposed energy price refonn                              enhaced SPC's understanding of energy
prilcng pollcy
11. Poverty aleviation     Development of long-term poverty   Completed (4 studies)   Recommendations adopted by local
sttudes (#18)           alevataon polides in low-income                            government, Induded In Poverty AUeviation
reglows nd Identification of                              Fortificaton Pln
laftrmctural and Institutional
priorities
12. Study of ntoan food     FealbUty study for developing   Completed                 Developed bai for a flood control progma  for
contrl  d dispac        Phse 11 of Natonal Flood                                  the 7 maJor bas in Ci, based on p_ot
sysem (#19)             ControlDispatch System                                    schemes developed in the Hual river basin
Soe Annex C for Sub-Project Implementation Completion Reports



-1S -
Table 8a: PROJECT COSTS
Item             Appraisal Estimate (Sm)         Actual/latest (Sm)
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign    Total
Consultants                 1.5      9.5      11.0              5.8
Training                    1.3      4.2       5.5              9.1
Equipment                   1.3      4.2       5.5              5.1
National Personnel          7.6      0.0       7.6
TOTAL                       11.7     17.9    29.6   N/A        20.0
Table 8b: PROJECT FINANCING
Source            Appraisal Estimate (Sm)          Actual/latest (Sm)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
IDA                       2.8      17.9      20.7                20.0      20.0
Government                8.9        -        8.9     N/A a
TOTAL                    11.7      17.9      29.6                20.0
Figures for government contribution, and local/foreign cost breakdown, are not available
from SPC and MOF.
Table 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(not applicable)



- 16-
Table 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present  Original   Revised   Description   Comments
type     status  fulfillment fulfillment of covenant
___________    _________         ~~date      date    _ _ _ _ _ _
Credit     4.01      1          CD       End of                 Standard     Delays in
every fiscal          financial    submission of
year                               audit reports.
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
(not applicable)
Table 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle       Planned               Revised               Actual
Weeks        s       Weeks        S        Weeks        S
Through Appraisal                                                       90.3
Appraisal-Board                                                         13.6
Board-Effectiveness
Supervision                 70.5                  98.8                  67.8
Completion
TOTAL                                                                             296.4



- 17-
Table 13: BANK RESOURCES:MISSIONS
Stage of     Monthl   No. of   Days in   Speisilzed staff sldUs         Perforfnance rating                   Types of problenm
prolect cycle   .   .r   persons    field        represented
Implementatlon    Development
status       objectives
Through          03/87                        Economics,
appraisl                                      procurement,
disbursement
Appralil -
Board
approval
Board
approval -
effectlveness
Supervlslon      10/87                        Economics,                   I                          Progress reporting
05Y8                         procurement,                 I               1          Agreement on sub- project proposals and
02/89                        disbursement,                I                         workplans
03/39      2                 technical assIstaice         1                         *Dlsbursement profie
03/90      4                                              2               1         *Long delays In arranging overseas training
07/90      2                                              2               1         and advisory services after 1989 poUtical
03/91      1                                              2               1         crisis
03/92      1                                              2               1          Mlintsterlal reorganization
07/92      1                                              2               1
02/93      3                                              2               1
06193      1                                              2               1
03n94      1                                              2               1
09/94      1                                              S               S
Completlon       12/94       1                                             S                S        *Delayed submission of sub-project data and
Borrower's contribution
oDelayed submission otinrormatlon on
project costs



Anex A
- 18 -
PLANNING SUPPORT AND SPECIAL STUDIES PROJECT (CR. 1835-CHA)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
A World Bank mission consisting of Mr. David Rix visited Beijing from
December 4 to 16, 1994 for the final supervision prior to the closing of the Planning
Support and Special Studies Project (Cr. 1835-CHA) on December 31, 1994. Meetings
were held with representatives of the Ministry of Finance and State Planning Commission,
and a one-day workshop was organized for the subproject implementing agencies. Other
meetings were held with officials of the China Council for the Promotion of Quality
Assurance to resolve specific subproject issues associated with the closing of the credit.
Mr. Rix is very appreciative of the cooperation and assistance provided by the Ministry of
Finance and the State Planning Commission during the mission's visit.
Credit Closing
1.    A final decision on whether the credit would close on December 31, 1994 or a
further extension of the closing date would be sought, was reached by MOF on December
2, 1994, following discussions and correspondence between MOF and the Bank. It was
agreed that the credit would close on December 31, 1994. Particular issues resulting from
this decision are discussed in a subsequent paragraph (para. 18).
The Project
2.    The US$20.7 million Planning Support and Special Studies Project (PSSSP) was
signed on September 14, 1987 and was originally to close on December 31, 1992. Two
one-year extensions were approved, establishing December 31, 1994 as the final closing
date. In the course of its implementation, this 'umbrella-type' technical assistance credit
provided financing for 20 subprojects, implemented by almost as many separate ministries
and agencies. The subprojects were designed to support planning studies, inter-sectoral
and innovative technical assistance, and governmental economic, financial and institutional
reforms.
3.    Of the 20 subprojects, six have been completed and a further nine are in the final
stages of implementation and are expected to be completed by the closing date. Four will
not be completed. One subproject was cancelled. As of the end of November, about 75
percent of the credit had been disbursed. Expenditures and reimbursement claims in
December are estimated to increase the overall disbursements at credit closing to about 85
percent of the credit amount. An estimated US$2 million is expected to remain
undisbursed, and several subprojects are expected to carry large (over $200,000)
undisbursed balances.



Annex A
-19-
World Bank View of Project Implementation
4.    The Bank considers that overall project implementation has been satisfactory, with
some variation in degree among the different subprojects. The project's objectives, as
stated in the Development Credit Agreement, were to assist the Government in:
(a) strengthening its development policy and planning capability through studies
for preparation of the eighth five-year plan;
(b) preparing and implementing intersectoral and innovative technical assistance
projects;
(c) strengthening key institutions responsible for economic and financial reform.
The project has achieved these objectives. Moreover, it has maintained a good balance of
activities with a fairly even distribution of subprojects among the three objectives: seven
under (a) (subproject nos. 5, 6, 9, 10, 12, 15, 17), five under (b) (nos. 13, 14, 18, 19, 20),
and seven under (c) (nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 11). During project implementation, extensions
to activities under eight subprojects that had been implemented particularly well were
approved, and additional allocations of credit resources were made.
5.    The tasks and activities undertaken through the various subprojects -- a
combination of research, studies, overseas and local training, study tours, conferences,
seminars and workshops -- have engendered a number of indirect benefits as well as the
more obvious ones of increasing knowledge, skills and capacities. Through these
activities, agency officials have had the opportunity to gain exposure to, and experience in,
polices, practices and procedures in other countries and international institutions.
Through study tours and overseas training, they have been able to develop contacts and
networks of experts in their particular areas of interest in several overseas institutions.
They have been able to develop close working relationships with foreign experts through
joint research. And through international conferences organized in China, they have been
able to attract leading policy makers and high-calibre professionals from government and
the private sector around the world. Subproject agencies have also gained experience in
project management, including such aspects as consultant recruitment, equipment
procurement, work planning, and progress monitoring and reporting.
6,    From the Bank's perspective, there were also a number of problems in the
implementation of the project, some of which were not under the control of either SPC,
MOF, the agencies, or the Bank. First, not all of the project activities were able to be
completed. The political uncertainties in 1989 had the effect of slowing overall progress
on the project, eventually necessitating an extension of the closing date. Further, some
subprojects were approved quite late in the project implementation period, which
eventually necessitated a further closing date extension. Even then, despite considerable
'bunching' of activities in the final year, the additional time provided was inadequate to
enable fuli completion of all the subprojects.



Annex A
- 20-
7.    Second, a significant undisbursed credit balance will remain at credit closing. Part
of the reason for this is that the SDRILUS$ exchange rate trend, in which the dollar
equivalent of the SDR moved from US$1.30 at the time of project inception to about
US$1.48 today, resulted in a slower SDR disbursement rate over the course of the project,
and lower SDR utilization overall. This result was compounded by the cancellation, at the
Government's request, of one subproject (no. 16) which released about a further US$1.3
million into the unutilized balance.
8.    Third, annual work plans and project progress reports were not always provided
on a consistent and timely basis. This made progress monitoring difficult. In retrospect, a
more proactive role could have been taken by SPC and MOF in ensuring that the
requirements were fully met. There is a need to strengthen these aspects of project
management at both the central and agency level.
9.    Fourth, there was some lack of continuity in project management -- from both the
Government's and the Bank's side -- over the course of project implementation. This
made monitoring and supervision of this complex project (20 subprojects, 19 agencies) a
difficult task.
10.   Fifth, there appeared in some cases to be some reluctance on the part of the
agencies to the hiring of foreign consultants. In part, this may be due to the focus on the
high cost of foreign consultant services, compared to that of local consultants, rather than
on value added; it may also result from dissatisfaction with consultant's past work, which
may in turn have resulted from inadequate definitions (terms of reference) for the
consulting assignments.
State Planning Commission and Ministry of Finance View
11.   The SPC and MOF provided few comments on their views of the implementation
of the project, preferring to reflect them in more detail in their Project Evaluation Report
which has yet to be prepared. Nevertheless, both agencies expressed satisfaction with the
project, and felt that it had been very successful. They also felt that the project's
objectives had been achieved. Subproject agencies for the most part had been successfuil
in implementing their respective programs. These agencies had benefitted greatly from the
technical assistance, research, training, and other activities under their respective
subprojects and important contributions to strengthening planning and policy-making in
Government institutions have been made. Indeed, SPC and MOF believe that this type of
'umbrella' TA project, involving a number of separate subprojects, is extremely beneficial
to China's development agenda. They expressed interest in future TA projects of this
type.
12.   SPC and MOF felt that there were very few significant issues. The SDRIUS$ rate
trend had indeed caused difficulties in the utilization of credit proceeds, and the
cancellation of one large subproject had exacerbated the problem (para. 7). In addition,



Annex A
- 21-
some agencies had over-estimated their funding requirements in their initial subproject
proposals, further contributing to under-utilization of the credit. SPC and MOF also
recognized that work planning and progress reporting had been a general problem. A
major concern mentioned by SPC and MOF (also raised by some subproject agencies - see
para. 15) was the ability of the agencies -- more specifically, the non-revenue-earning
ones -- to repay their loans to MOF, particularly since the 3 5 percent reduction in January,
1994 in the value of the RMB vis-a-vis the US$. This situation had tended to cause
subproject agencies to be extremely cautious in utilizing their credit allocations, and in
some cases, to put some activities on hold. This could continue to be a potential risk in
future TA projects of this nature.
Subproject Implementing Agencies' View
13.   A one-day project completion workshop was organized during the mission's visit
to bring together representatives of the subproject implementing agencies for discussions
on the project. Twenty-one officials representing 15 of the agencies participated. The
workshop was designed to (a) apprise participating agencies of the requirements for the
closing of the credit, and the responsibilities of these agencies in the preparation of
subproject implementation reports; and (b) to ascertain informally the agencies' views on
the implementation of the project and their respective subprojects. A more formal
perspective on project implementation will be provided in the agencies' subproject
implementation reports, which will be provided to MOF by the end of January, 1995 and
to the Bank by mid-February, 1995.
14.   The response from the agencies was very positive. About half of the agencies
represented indicated specifically that their subprojects had been very successful or
successful, and that they were very satisfied with the results. A similar number indicated
that their organizations had benefitted significantly -- through organizational restructuring,
the development of skills of managers and other staff through training and study tours,
increases in working capacity, expansion of training capabilities and capacity, and the
introduction of new systems. Important contributions had also been made by the
subprojects in the areas of economic planning, flood control, energy policy, poverty
alleviation, and understanding market economies. For the most part, subproject
objectives were achieved, and valuable contributions made.
15.   Few problem areas were specifically identified. The major problem appeared to
be the ability of the agencies to repay their loans to MOF. With the devaluation of the
RMB in January 1994 from a rate of 5.3 RMB to 8.7 RMB to the US dollar, agencies had
found it difficult to service their debts. As a result, some agencies had held back from
fully utilizing their allocated funds. A second problem related to the over-estimation of
costs in the preparation of proposals, resulting in some cases to surplus funds remaining at
subproject completion.



Annex A
- 22 -
Preparation of Implementation Completion Report
16.   The mission discussed in some detail with SPC and MOF the information required
for project completion. In particular: (a) the information required from SPC, MOF and
the subproject agencies for inclusion in the mission's Aide-Memoire; (b) informnation
(Subproject Implementation Reports, etc.) to assist the Bank in its preparation of the ICR;
and (c) information (Project Evaluation Report, etc.) required from SPC and MOF as their
contribution to the ICR. A document was prepared by the mission outlining these
requirements, and in particular providing details about the content of these two reports.
In addition, a schedule was prepared and agreed by SPC, MOF and the mission for the
preparation of the various documents under the ICR process. A copy of the schedule is
attached.
17.   Subsequently, a one-day workshop was organized for subproject agencies (see
para. 13). This workshop was provided in part to apprise the subproject agencies of their
responsibilities in the preparation of their Subproject Implementation Reports, and of the
procedures involved. The workshop was successful, and several agencies' representatives
expressed appreciation for the guidance provided. In addition, charts were designed
collaboratively during the workshop to assist the agencies in report preparation.
Subproject on Promotion of Quality Assurance
18.   This subproject (no. 20) was approved in the second half of 1994. Once the
decision not to extend the credit closing date had been taken, it became clear that a
significant part of the subproject would remain uncompleted at the time of credit closing
on December 31, 1994. Some items of equipment and some training courses would be
unable to be completed because of the limited time available to meet the requirements of
the procurement process, and because of the duration of the courses. Meetings were held
with MOF and representatives of the China Council for the Promotion of Quality
Assurance (CCPQA) to explain in detail the Bank's procurement procedures and
reimbursement eligibility at credit closing, to enable the agency to determine which
components of the subproject could reasonably be completed by the closing date. On the
basis of consultation with the Bank while the mission was en route to China, it was agreed
that CCPQA would complete as much of the existing subproject as possible under PSSSP,
consistent with the Bank's guidelines. CCPQA would also prepare a new subproject
proposal for consideration for financing under the Reform, Institutional Support and
Preinvestment Project (CRISPP), an ongoing TA project similar to PSSSP. The
objectives of the CCPQA subproject are entirely compatible with subproject eligibility
criteria under CRISPP. MOF and CCPQA agreed that the new subproject proposal for
CRISPP would be submitted to the Bank by the end of December.
Beijing,
December 16. 1994.



Annex B
- 23 -
Evaluation Report from the Borrowers of the Credit for the
Planning Support and Special Studies Project (CR. 1835-Cha)
A. Contents of Assessment
A-1. Project Objectives
In 1986, the top official of the Chinese government and
the World Bank authorities agreed, after China fulfilled its
Seventh Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social
Development, the World Bank would be involved in the preparation
work for the Eighth Five-Year Plan. Later, the World Bank
provided a special credit in the fiscal year of 1987 and
prescribed the use of the credit in a summary: (a) help China
stipulate moderate- and long-term plans and the relevant
departments draw up development strategies, carry out research of
investment and feasibility studies in order to increase the
ability of the Chinese government to stipulate its development
policies and plans; (b) train personnel for the central and local
governments in planning, administration, banking, taxation for
China's reform of economic and financial system; (c) provide
technical aids and symposiums for trans-trade businesses, such as
consulting, engineering construction and contracting businesses.
The Chinese departments which are responsible for the project
would provide trades and departments the credit goes and the
World Bank would examine and approve the plans and work plans and
supervise their implementation and the progress of the project.
Following is the assessment of the achieved objectives
made according to the implementation of this special credit
project in the last six years and the progress of the Chinese
economic development during the Eighth Five-Year Plan period and
the reform of the systems:
A-l.1. After the reform of the economic system during the
Eighth Five-Year Plan period, China has made the establishment of
the socialist market economic system the target of the reform and
has carried out the reform of the investment, financial, banking,
foreign trade, foreign exchange and enterprise systems. As a
result, the reform and opening, and modernization construction
have entered a new stage of development. The reform of economic
system has shifted its focus from deconcentrating the central
power and profit with an aim to break traditional planned economy
to the establishment of the socialist market economic system.
The objectives of this special credit meet the demands of
the reform during the Eighth Five-Year Plan period. (a) Progress
achieved in the research of some special subjects concerned
economic restructuring, such as multi-level administration,
reform of taxation system and the studies of financial systems in
foreign countries, has promoted the design and implementation of
China's reform; (b) Training of planning, financial and banking
personnel has helped increase their knowledge on market economy.
Such training courses have provided personnel for China's reform.
A-1.2. During the Eighth Five-Year Plan period, it is
urgent to study the basic conditions of such industries as iron
and still, petrochemicals, electronics, transportation and
machinery and draw up relative development plans according to the
needs of industrial development and readjustment of industrial
structure. The special credit project has provided necessary help



Annex B
- 24 -
in time. It is correct to establish these three sub-projects -
petrochemicals, electronics and electricity and their expected
results have been reached. All these facilitate the drawing of
the plan for national economic development during the Eighth
Five-Year Plan period and its implementation. Unfortunately, some
industries could not be listed as sub-projects, such as iron and
steel, and transportation. The plan on the development of
machinery basic units could not be implemented (caused will be
explained later). It is very pity.
A-1.3. Great achievements have gained in consulting
services and the study of feasibility of investment. The
executive departments of sub-projects have written such documents
as ''Guidelines on Consulting Services Providing for Construction
Projects,' ''Samples for Bids and Inviting Bids of Construction
Projects'' and '"Administration on Standards Quotations of
Construction Projects'' according to the Chinese concrete
conditions and international practice. All these documents have
received the state approval and are being implemented in the
practical work. Their implementation will give impetus to the
reform of investment system and the entering of investment
behaviors into market.
A-1.4. Several sub-projects of training are going
smoothly. The training in banking, financial, consulting service
and planning fields has facilitated the reform of China's
economic system and the implementation of the Eighth Five-Year
Plan. After receiving training, great numbers of young and
middle-aged people benefit the fulfillment of the project they
work for and the economic restructuring and macroeconomic
management.
A-2. Project Design
A-2.1. The project has reached its subjects as expected.
Good design is demonstrated in some fields as follows:
(a) The establishment of sub-projects on structural
construction and studies of special items is reasonable and the
departments to implement them are suitable too. Many important
research subjects concerning national economic development and
economic restructuring are decided after selections for several
times. All these subjects meet the demands of the Eighth Five-
Year Plan for development and the reform of system.
Then the State Planning Commission, the Ministry of
Finance, the People's Bank and the Development Research Center
under the State Council have been entrusted with the research of
these subjects, thus closely combining the research with the
Chinese concrete conditions. The research achievements will be
used to serve directly the reform and development.
(b) The training is given to personnel from reasonable
fields. The subjects of training are young and middle-aged people
and the contents of training are Western market economy. Training
courses are given to the people as more as possible.
(c) The studies on some important issues and on the
feasibility of the project have given solutions to the problems
which China has met and will meet in economic development during
the Eighth Five-Year Plan period. Great progress has achieved in
the research of the policies on science and technology, the
energy price, the national flood-prevention system and futures



Annex B
-25-
market. The studies on the water resources of the Yellow River
have provided theory and some data for the construction of the
Xiaolangdi Project with the funds from the World Bank.
(d) The studies of software of some projects have
emphasized on the fields concerning methods and future. While
emphasizing the reform of structure and update of the rules,
efforts will focus on the methods and application. The
establishment of the decision-making macro-supporting system by
the Development Research Center under the State Council and the
decision-making supporting system by the State Planning
Commission, the national energy power system and data base on
scientific and technological research projects has improved
China's policy-making level and working efficiency and will play
an important role in future work.
A-2.2. The Problems Existed
The planning projects in some industries have not been
implemented as planned, such as the plans in iron and steel,
communication and transportation and chemical fertilizer
industries. The project of machinery basic units has been
established but failed to be implemented. All these projects are
key research items during the Eighth Five-Year Plan period. The
main causes are: the problem how to pay back the investment did
not solved. The change of exchange rate between Chinese currency
with foreign currencies has increased the cost of the project.
the State Planning Commission did a lot of work and the two sides
involved discussed the suggestion and agreed on the contents and
the process of implementation of the project. But the responsible
authorities were afraid to use the special credit.
A-3. Assessment of Process and Contents of the Projects
A-3.1. The total investment and the percentage of
investment used: US$20,006,643.17 or 96.7 Dercent of the total
approved have been put into use, up to the requirement. Of which
those used for structural construction and training of personnel
totaled US$6,649,866.9, or 33.2 percent of the total. Those for
research of special subjects reached US$8,092,787.2, or 40.45
percent of the total. The use of money is reasonable. There are
only three planning projects which demand for less funds,
accounting for 26.2 percent of the total investment.
A-3.2. Time: All the project has been fulfilled two years
later than planned. The reasons are rational. First reason is the
political incident in 1989. Second is the changes of environment
for  economic  and  structural  reform  caused  by  economic
readjustment in China. Third is longer time for Chinese side and
the World Bank to exchange opinions and reach a census on some
subjects. These three causes demand for necessary adjustment in
the contents of research, the date for implementation and use of
funds. The reasonable delay is necessary in order to guarantee
the quality of the project. But it does not mean there are some
problems in the implementation of the project.
A-3.3. The organization of the activities aiming for
attaining the plan targets and the money spent are done strictly
according to the suggestions and year plans approved and examined
by the two sides. In general, they are up to the management
demands of the World Bank. Incomplete statistics show they
include:



Annex B
- 26 -
(a) A total of 120 foreign experts have been invited.
Their comments have facilitated the development of the project
and they have brought the latest know-how and methods to China.
At the same time, these experts have gained better understanding
of China. All these activities reached the targets as expected.
(b) Some five consulting companies have been invited. The
Chinese side, according to the' suggestions of the World Bank
officials, has invited bids based on the World Bank's guidelines
on the work. The consulting services are up to the demands of all
sub-projects in quality.
(c) A total of 24 international meetings have been held
attended by 900 foreign experts and 4,000 Chinese experts. All
these meetings have promoted the implementation of the project in
various fields.
(d) Some 700 personnel have been trained. These young and
middle-aged personnel will play their great role in their future
work. In future, China will increase inputs in this field. Owing
to a financial problem at home, the training in some fields found
a shortage of funds.
(e) A total of 32 inspection visits to foreign countries
have been organized. They are necessary. On one side, they are
beneficial to the cooperation between China and other countries
and to the smooth progress of the project. On the other these
visits are better for a deep research of the special subjects. In
the later stage of the project, the Chinese side, according to
the suggestions of the World Bank, has decreased the inspection
visit abroad. Although money has saved, the progress of the
project has been affected.
(f) Great amounts of computer equipment and official
apparatuses have been purchased. Also in the process of the
implementation of the project, the proportion of the money spent
for the purchase of software and related reference materials and
patented technologies has been increased. The proportion is
reasonable and up to the requirement of the project. The purchase
is carried out according to the World Bank's guideline on the
purchase of equipment and the demand of the project official from
the World Bank. The initial examination of these equipment by the
project %!r_rking group of the State Planning Commission and the
Ministry ..f Finance proved that the equipment has been put into
use already and are satisfied according to the users. The
proportion of the money put in this field can be increased in the
future. At the same time, the Chinese side put aside sums of
funds to purchase auxiliary equipment to guarantee smooth
operation of the equipment.
(g) The funds in Chinese currency have been put into use
as expected.
For details of the expenditure of funds, see the report
handed in by the Ministry of Finance.
B. Assessment of the Work of the State Planning Comission and
the Ministry of Finance, the Borrowers of the Special Funds
B-1.1. The State Planning Commission and the Ministry of
Finance are entrusted with the management of the project. In the
initial stage of the project, the State Planning Commission did a
lot of investigation and scientific research work and organized



Annex B
- 27 -
several discussions on suggestions of sub-projects by the
authorities of various trades and decided the reasonable research
targets, thus increasing the quality of project work. The
commission, together with the Ministry of Finance, stipulated the
Methods on the Management of the Special Credit Project which was
informed to various departments. The Ministry of Finance has
stipulated the related rules on the financial management of the
project. The stipulation of these documents put the project into
a normal operation and under a standard management from the
beginning.
B-1.2. The State Planning Commission has checked the
implementation of the sub-projects regularly and examined and
approved the plans for the year followed. It also proposed the
demands 'on the work and timely exchanged views with the World
Bank on Ithe problems appeared during its work. It has brought
into full play its role of coordination.
B-1.3. The Ministry of Finance has examined the
expenditure of every item of funds and make them up to the demand
of the World Bank. It has done a lot of work.
B-1.4. The project leading group has been established,
participated by high-ranking leading members. This group has
helped solve the problems and guide the work.
B-1.5. But it is pity, the project management units found
a shortage of personnel who know quite well both English and
professions. Also the project work was affected by frequent
changes of some project officials.
Because China is summing the work during the Eighth Five-
Year Plan period. The summary of the project has to be done based
on that of the plan period. This is the reason why the report on
the work of the project was delayed to be handed in. It can be
understood by the World Bank.
B-2. Lessons for the Future
The loans should be used according to China's strength
and the projects should be chosen according to its concrete
conditions. Also it is necessary to better understand all the
articles added to the technical aids to avoid some problems which
are really difficult to solve during their implementation.
Everything should be done according to the process strictly. In
addition, it is necessary to train more managerial personnel of
technical aids and credits.
C. The Role of the World Bank
C-1. The World Bank offered good suggestions on the
selection of the project and proposed reasonable methods for
solving the problems according to the Chinese concrete
conditions. The World Bank is positive towards the Chinese
demands and is patient to explain some of its articles. The World
Bank has done a lot of liaison work and is responsible and
serious in its examination and check work on the project, thus
pushing ahead with the implementation of the project in China.
What should be mentioned here is the positive role the
Representative Agency of the World Bank in the process of the
implementation of the project. Here we like to express our thanks
to Mr. Petter Harrod, Mr. Cardro and Mr. David Rix for their warm
enthusiasm and serious attitude to the work.



Annex B
- 28 -
C-2. Cooperation
Cooperation between the two sides is happy and effective.
Because the two sides could inform each other with the progress
of the project in time, made full preparations for the annual
examinations and joined efforts for the solution of the problems
appeared.
It is true the two sides have different viewpoints in
some research items and found difficult to reach agreement on
such projects as the project to lead water from south China to
north China.
But disagreement does not affect the quality of the whole
project. The State Planning Commission, China's macroeconomic
management unit, will strengthen the cooperation with the World
Bank and the other international financial institutions. The
cooperation scope will be wide.



Annex-C
-29 -
Plannine, SuPOort and Svecial Studies Credit:
Subproiect ImWlementation Summaries
1.    Reinforcing the Planning Commission and Strengthening Planning Tools
2.    Management of Government Finance*
3.    Institutional Development of the People's Bank of China
4.    Training of Planning Officials
5.    Planning of Electrical Power in Eastern China and Sichuan*
6.    Petrochemical Development Plan
7.    Promotion of China's Consulting Industry
8.    Development Strategy for China Investment Consulting Corporation
9.    Organization and Regulation of a Futures Market
10.   Price Planning Program and Anti-Inflation Decision Support System*
11.   Development of Audit Capability
12.   Research on the Formulation and Development of China's Science and Technology
Development Plan
13.   Yellow River Basin Economic Modelling Study
14.   Improving the Science Funding System and Promoting the Development of Basic Scientific Research
15.   Planning of Electronics Industry Development
16.   Key Machinery and Basic Products (dropped)
17.   Energy Price Research
18.   Poverty Alleviation Studies
19.   Study of National Flood Control and Dispatch System, Phase I
20.   International Quality Assurance in China
Note: All of these reports are based on Subproject Implementation Completion Reports submitted by the Borrower, and on
information in the project files. An asterisk (*) indicates that the requested Subproject Implementation Completion Report was
not submitted by the Borrower.



Annex C
- 30 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 1: Reinforcinf the Planninf Commission and Strengthening Planning Tools
Government implementing agency:       State Planning Commission
Date of IDA approval:                 May 1988
Date of project completion:           December 1994
Allocation:                           SDR 1,295,000 (originally SDR 935,000; additional
SDR 360,000 approved in 1993)
Final disbursement:                   SDR 1,007,117 (78%)
Description
The objective was to increase the capacity of SPC in economic planning though the introduction of
modem planning methods. In particular, the subproject would focus on medium and long-term
macroeconomic policy formulation rather than detailed annual approval of national investment programs. A
further objective was to establish an information network to link planning departments and improve
information gathering.
Implementation
Overseas training. Thirty-seven SPC staff attended a total of 16 training courses, ranging from 1-12
months, in macroeconomic policy, foreign aid management, economic forecasting, national accounting and
agro-technology. A further 67 staff participated in delegations to economic research institutes or relevant
ministries in the US, UK, Austria, Germany, Sweden, Australia and Thailand. Advisors. In the period 1988-
94, 8 short-term advisors provided support to SPC in the fields of project appraisal, national income, fixed
asset investment, macroeconomic policy and science and technology development. In-country seminars.
SPC organized 5 international seminars on macroeconomic policy management and utilization of external
assistance in Beijing, Guangzhou, Hainan and Qingdao. Equipment. The subproject financed the purchase of
computer and other communications equipment and decision support software.
Evaluation
SPC staff benefited considerably from exposure to international macroeconomic planning and policy
methods. The establishment of a computer network linking relevant planning departments across the country
has facilitated information gathering, forecasting and decision-making. With regard to project management,
some problems were experienced with staff continuity and availability of interpreters. Twenty-two percent of
project funds were unutilized as a result of the implementation unit's concerns about Credit repayment.



Annex C
- 31 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 2:   Manavement of Government Finance (Training of Financial System
Officials)
Govemment implementing agency:         Ministry of Finance
Date of IDA approval:                  May 1988
Date of project completion:            Expected December 1993; extension requested, July 1993
Allocation:                            SDR 1,303,000 (originally SDR 943,000; additional
SDR 360,000 approved in 1993)
Final disbursement:                    SDR 1,191,791 (91%)
Description
The objectives of the subproject were to develop the capacity of MOF staff in the fields of economic
and financial management, accounting, budget management and public finance, and in resource allocation to
social, urban and administrative sectors.
Implementation
MOF established working groups on: (a) resource mobilization for urban investment and management,
(b) social security, (c) accounting management to prepare new accounting regulations for enterprises and
agricultural concerns, (d) tax management and reform, (e) fiscal legislation, and (f) a computer network. Overseas
training. Staff of MOF participated in a series of overseas study tours related to public finance: economic policy
and regulations, debt policy, financial and fiscal policy, macro-financial policy and personnel training. In-country
training. Seminars were arranged on the design of reform programs in fiscal policy and macroeconomic
management, and housing policy. Equipment. The subproject financed the procurement of computer equipment,
including network systems and software.
Evaluation
The subproject was felt to have increased the knowledge of specialist staff, and to have developed
contacts with international organizations. Senior staff were actively involved in many of the programs. Some
reservations were expressed about the effectiveness of some study tours.



Annex C
- 32 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 3: Institutional Development of the People's Bank of China
Government implementing agency:       People's Bank of China, Human Resources
Development Center
Date of IDA approval:                 May 1988
Date of project completion:           December 1994 (expected June 1990)
Allocation:                           SDR 945,000 (originally SDR
725,000; additional SDR220,000 allocated in 1993)
Final disbursement:                   SDR 970,787 (103%)
Description
The subproject objectives were: (a) to increase the capacity of PBC for carrying out its role in
financial sector reform through training senior and mid-level staff, and thereby (b) to establish a financial
macro-control system appropriate for the development of a market-oriented economy, credit system,
financial organization system, and modernized system of financial institution regulation.
Implementation
Overseas training. Fifty PBC staff attended a total of 29 overseas courses and seminars in central and
commercial bank operation and visited a number of central banks and financial research institutes. 116 staff
participated in delegations to 18 short overseas study tours on the following subjects: clearing systems,
banking laws and regulation, bank examination, central bank operation, trust operations, securities markets,
commercial bank management, bank accounting, internation banking supervision, monetary policy and tools,
computerization of banking systems, statistical analysis, gold markets, fund markets, open market operation
and personnel management. A further 59 staff took part in 14 study tours to central banks and monetary
authorities. In-country seminars. PBC organized 14 seminars on central bank operation, financial
management, macro-economic management, accounting, insurance operations and banking regulations.
Equipment. The subproject financed the purchase of computers and other office equipment.
Follow-up activities
PBC envisages further external assistance, particularly in overseas training for mid-level and junior
staff.
Evaluation
The implementation of the subproject substantially enhanced the skills of PBC policymakers, senior
and mid-level staff in the fields of modern financial organization and management systems. The training
activities and seminars exposed PBC to modern banking systems and paved the way for the introduction of
new banking legislation. A total of 1026 staff benefited from the various activities. Training activities, study
tours and seminars could have been co-ordinated more closely, in light of the extent of course duplication.



Annex C
- 33 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 4: Traininif of Plannine Officials
Government implementing agency:      State Planning Commission
Date of IDA approval:                Phase I-May 1988, Phase II-January 1993
Date of project completion:          Phase I-March 1994, Phase II-December 1994
Allocation:                          SDR 875,000 (originally SDR 725,000; additional
SDR 150,000 approved in 1993)
Final disbursement:                   SDR 892,916 (100%)
Description
The principal objectives were: (a) to improve the regional macroeconomic policymaking and
planning capacity of SPC, particularly in the areas of macroeconomic management and analysis and
formulation of economic and social development plans; and (b) to strengthen the training system for national
planners.
Implementation
Overseas Training. A total of 92 staff took part in 8 overseas workshops on the following subjects:
(a) macroeconomic management (France, US), (b) macroeconomic policy co-ordination (US, Canada,
Australia, Thailand, Netherlands, Sweden), (c) system for national accounts (US), (d) social security systems
(US), (e) social development and environment (US, Canada). A further 32 staff attended long-term training
courses in economic theory, macroeconomics, quantitative methods, finance, banking and sectoral economic
issues in the UK, Australia and the US. In-country seminars. Conferences were held on economic
forecasting, national accounts and state-owned enterprise management. Equipment. The subproject financed
audio-visual teaching equipment and desktop computers for the National Planners' Training Center.
Evaluation
Subproject implementation has greatly enhanced macroeconomic skills of SPC staff and will play a
positive role in the formulation of the Ninth Five-Year Plan. Participation in overseas training courses or
study tours strengthened links with international research institutes. The establishment of a training center
has allowed SPC to hold over 37 classes for over 1000 participants.



Annex C
- 34 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 5: Plannin! of Electrical Power in Eastern China and Sichuan
Government implementing agency:      Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
Date of IDA approval:                 May 1988
Date of project completion:          Expected June 1989
Allocation:                           SDR 563,137 (originally SDR 1,900,000; reduced
by SDR 1,336,863 in 1993)
Final disbursement:                   SDR 563,137 (100%)
Description
The objective was the formulation of a development strategy to meet electric power needs in Eastern
China and Sichuan to the year 2000.
Implementation
Research. The following reports were prepared as part of the subproject: (a) Medium-term (1990-
2000) planning for electric power development in Eastern China; (b) Medium-term load forecasting for
electric power development in Eastern China; (c) Medium-term electric power development planning for
Eastern China; (d) Planning of electric power development for Sichuan; (e) Load forecasting for Sichuan.
Overseas Training. Staff of MWR undertook training courses in France (Electricite de France), Japan
(Tokyo Electric Power Company), and in Norway and Sweden (hydropower, thermal, power and tariffs).
In-country training. Seminars were arranged on the following topics: Power Sector Development Planning
(Shanghai); Load Forecasting in the Sichuan Network; Local Forecasting (Chengdu); Power Source
Planning and Network Planning ill Eastern China (Shanghai); Power Sources and Network Planning in the
Sichuan Power Network (Chengdu); Load Forecasting, Power Sources, and Network Planning in the
Eastern China Network (Beijing). A final seminar on Power Sector Development and Planning of the
Sichuan Power Network was held in Beijing.
Evaluation
Participation in seminars and study tours familiarized staff with a range of techniques used
internationally in electric power planning.



Annex C
- 35 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 6: Petrochemical Development Plan (Petrochemical Subsector Strategv Study)
Government implementing agency:      China Petrochemical Corporation (SINOPEC)
Date of IDA approval:                May 1988
Date of project completion:          December 1994 (Expected June 1989)
Allocation:                          SDR 1,812,000
Final disbursement:                   SDR 1,803,356 (99.5%)
Description
The objective of this subproject was to formulate a development strategy for the petrochemical sub-
sector up the the year 2000, to be included in the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95).
Implementation
Overseas training. The subproject financed study tours to the USA and Japan to investigate
production technologies and seek longer-term co-operation opportunities through technology transfer or
joint ventures. A total of 11 staff were sent to the US for long-term training in petrochemical demand,
supply and price forecasting and computer operation.
Advisors. SINOPEC worked closely with International Development Planner (IDP) cons-ulting firm
both within China and in the USA on economic and financial analysis of projects, including Bank
petrochemical projects. IDP prepared nine special reports in collaboration with SINOPEC on: (a)
International Petrochemical Products Forecast, (b) Survey of International Sources and Prices of
Petrochemical Feedstock, (c) Relationship of GNP to Petrochemicals Consumption, (d) Proposed
Development Strategy of China's Petrochemical Industry during the 1990s, (e) Proposed Plan for
Development of Resins and Plastics in China during the 1990s, (f) Evaluation of Lanzhou Petrochemical
Expansion Project, (g) Evaluation of Maoming Ethylene, Yangtzi Ethylene and Liaoyang Polyester Project,
(h) Evaluation of the SINOPEC Eighth Five-Year Plan, and (i) Comparitive Analysis of Petrochemical Plant
Construction Costs in China and on the US Gulf Coast. The recommendations of these reports were
incorporated into the Eighth Five-Year Plan.
Equipment. The subproject financed the purchase of computer equipment and network software to
facilitate access to reference materials and information on international petrochemical markets.
Evaluation
The principal benefits of the subproject were developing the capacity of SINOPEC in the areas of
demand and price forecasting, planning and project evaluation. The acquisition of data management and
decision support systems will facilitate short and longer-term planning and evaluation work. SINOPEC has
been able to develop a petrochemicals industry database for planning and consulting purposes.



Annex C
-36 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 7: Promotion of China's Consultinz Industrv
Government implementing agency:       China International Engineering Consulting
Corporation (CIECC)
Date of IDA approval:                 May 1988
Date of project completion:           December 1994 (Expected June 1990)
Allocation:                           SDR 513,000 (originally SDR 363,000;
additional SDR150,000 allocated in 1993)
Final disbursement:                   SDR 453,372 (88%)
Description
The objective was to increase the capacity of CIECC to carry out and review feasibility studies and
project design and supervise construction projects.
Implementation
CIECC established a dedicated implementation team drawn from senior management in order to
draw up an appropriate training program. The program was weighted heavily towards overseas study tours
and training. Activities planned for 1994 were not fully implemented as a result of communication delays
between CIECC and IDA. Overseas training. A total of 35 staff participated in long-term (6-12 month)
training programs in Engineering, Accounting and International Law in Australia, USA. Hong Kong, Japan,
Germany, UK and Canada. A further 32 staff visited consulting firms and utilities in the USA, Thailand,
India and Australia. In-country training. A seminar on Project Management in Engineering Projects was
conducted in Tianjin in 1989 for 50 participants. Equipment: Audio-visual equipment was acquired for
CIECC's training center.
Evaluation
The professional staff of CIECC gained considerable expertise in international engineering consulting
procedures, methods and management skills as well as knowledge of international financial systems and
legislation. By working with international consulting firms, particularly through on-the-job training, CIECC
strengthened its technical capabilities. The procurement of audio-visual equipment enabled CIECC to
establish a training centre to facilitate further internal and external training in new disciplines. Co-ordination
between CIECC, SPC and MOF was considered effective.



Annex C
- 37 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 8: Develooment Strateev for China Investment Consulting Corporation
Government implementing agency:       China Investment Consulting Corporation (CICC)
Date of IDA approval:                 December 1988
Date of project completion:           August 1994
Allocation:                           SDR 220,000
Final disbursement:                   SDR 206,388 (94%)
Description
Developing the capacity of the China Investment Consulting Corporation in financial analysis, project
evaluation, and investment advisory services through training and development of contacts with international
consulting firms.
Implementation
Overseas traininz. A total of 15 CICC staff attended 1-3 month training courses in investment
banking and financial and banking consultancy at branches of Banque Indosuez in Singapore, Hong Kong,
UK and Belgium. A further 20 staff took part in study tours to Japan, Singapore, USA, Canada, France and
Italy organized training by selected consulting firms and commercial banks in the following subjects:
Securities, Mergers and Acquisitions, Investment Banking, Financial Consulting and General Finance.
Evaluation
The development of new skills has resulted in notable organizational benefits for CICC, allowing
internal restructuring, establishment of new departments and development of new initiatives in line with
China's changing economic conditions. CICC has established departments for asset evaluation, accountancy
and investment advisory services as well as 14 branches throughout the country to handle local business. The
Asset Evaluation Department offered its services to companies to be publicly listed, such as the Wuhan Iron
and Steel Complex. It is recognized by the Administration of State Assets of the PRC and the China
Securities Regulatory Commission. The Accounting Department has offered its services to several
enterprises including the Huaneng Group's Dezhou Power Station and the Weihai Power Station.
Furthermore, the development of contacts with international consulting firms has enabled CICC to establish
wider business relations.



Annex C
- 38 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 9: Organization and Regulation of a Futures Market
Government implementing agency:       Department of Market and Price, Development
Research Center
Date of IDA approval:                 December 1988
Project initiated in February 1994.
Date of project completion:           December 1994
Allocation:                           SDR SDR 630,000 (originally SDR 370,000; a
further SDR 80,000 approved in 1993 and SDR 180,000
in 1994)
Final disbursement:                    SDR 574,621 (91%)
Description
The objectives of the subproject were to learn from the experience and management of futures
markets of other countries, to standardize the development of China's futures market, including futures
exchanges and brokerage companies, and to facilitate effective government administration of the futures
market.
Implementation
Research A total of eleven research reports were produced in the period February-December 1994,
on the organization and regulation of futures markets. Overseas training. Two DRC staff attended overseas
training programs in settlement systems of futures transactions and risk management of the futures market
and financial futures respectively. A further six staff took part in study tours to the US and Japan, visiting
commodity, mercantile and securities exchanges. In-country seminars. A large-scale conference on Control
of Risk in Futures Markets was held in December 1994. Small-scale conferences were held on futures
market regulation in May and September 1994.
Evaluation
The implementation of the project has facilitated the development of policy to standardize China's
futures market and develop appropriate regulations. DRC experienced difficulties with counterpart fund
repayments.



Annex C
- 39 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 10: Price Planning Proeram and Anti-Inflation Decision Support System
Government implementing agency:       State Price Bureau, State Planning Commission
Date of IDA approval:                 August 1989
Date of project completion:          December 1994
Allocation:                           SDR 395,000
Final disbursement:                   SDR 339,965 (86%)
Description
The objectives of the subproject were to develop expertise in pricing and marketing, and inflation
control, and to understand the mechanisms of international markets, including GATT, as well as domestic
pricing.
Implementation
Research. A model of anti-inflationary measures was developed and the initial results were
incorporated in the price policy section of the Eighth Five-Year Plan. Overseas Training. Staffof the SPB
took part in overseas training, including study tours on inflation policy, futures markets mechanisms,
regulations and institutions, and price and wage control institutions. Equipment. The subproject financed
the installation of a computerized decision support system.
Evaluation
Participation in study tours and overseas training in particular exposed agency staff to international
practices, and substantially strengthened analytical capacity in price planning. This was appropriate at a time
when the move away from price controls was being discussed more widely.



- 40-
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 11: Development of Audit Ca2ability
Government implementing agency:       Audit Administration of the PRC
Date of IDA approval:                 August 1989
Date of project completion:           December 1994
Allocation:                           SDR 539,000 (originally SDR 395,000;
additional SDR144,000 approved in 1994).
Final disbursement:                   SDR 485,212 (90%)
Description
The objectives of this subproje.t were: (a) to improve and standardize audit legislation and
regulation; (b) to conduct comparative studies of Chinese and international accounting systems and audit
methodologies to carry out effective audit supervision of government expenditures; and (c) to develop a
computerized auditing system to increase audit quality and efficiency.
Implementation
Research. Two major studies were completed by the Foreign Capital Utilization Audit Department of
AAPRC: (a) an analysis of accounting and audit computerization, and (b) a comparitive study of accounting
systems and audit methodologies of China and Western countries. A short-term advisor provided assistance
with computerization. Eleven AAPRC staff participated in related study tours to Australia, UK and France
in 1992. An in-country semrinar was held on comparitive auditing and accounting in 1990. Overseas training.
Since 1991, 52 AAPRC staff have attended training courses in auditing theory and practice in the US,
France, Singapore and Australia; many of these individuals are now providing on-the-job training at
AAPRC. Seven study tours were organized for larger delegations to state audit bodies in the UK, Italy,
Japan, Korea, Thailand, Canada and France on audit legislation, audit management, public finance audit, and
audits of all government expenditure. These tours resulted in increased co-operation between Chinese and
international audit institutions. In-countrv training. A total of 850 audit staff participated in 9 in-country
workshops during the implementation period on the following subjects: new accounting systems, project
performance audits, and audits of Bank-financed projects, as well as Chinese-foreign joint ventures, industry,
communications, finance, joint-stock enterprises, commercial enterprises and foreign capital ventures. A
further four international conferences were held in this period on audit legislation, public works, public
audits and China-British audit planning. Equipment. The subproject financed the purchase of computers and
basic office equipment.
Evaluation
The subproject is considered to have achieved all of its major objectives. Participation in intemational
seminars, overseas training and study tours enabled AAPRC staff to develop closer contacts with
international institutions. Seventy percent of staff who attended overseas courses now hold high-level
decision-making positions at AAPRC. The acquisition of skills and information on international auditing
practices has facilitated the development of audit legislation. Some difficulties were experienced during
subproject implementation: delayed communications between implementing agencies and executive units,
problems with overseas communications, and difficulties with counterpart fund repayments.



Annex C
- 41 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 12:  Research on the Formulation and Develooment of China's Science
and Technolorv Develooment Plan
Government implementing agency:      National Research Center for Science and
Technology for Development
Date of IDA approval:                 September 1989
Date of project completion:          December 1994
Allocation:                           SDR 617,000 (originally SDR 403,000; additional
SDR 214,000 approved in 1994)
Final disbWvement:                    SDR 578,332 (94%)
Description
The objectives were to increase China's capability in formulating its science and technology policies,
as presented in the Eighth Five-Year Plan, and to improve planning methodologies.
Implementation
Research. Studies were completed in the following areas: (a) Formulation and Implementation of a
Science and Technology Plan, (b) China's Science and Technology Indicators, (c) Empirical Study on
China's Technological Innovation, (d) Development of China's Science and Technology Human Resources,
(e) Promotion of Development Zones for High and New Technology Industries and on Establishing a
Decision Support System, (f) Evaluation of Key National Science and Technology Programs during the
Eighth Five-Year Plan, and (g) two case studies on Industrial Science and Technology Planning: High-Speed
Railway Development, and Development Strategy for the Lower Reaches of the Lanchang River.
Overseas training. A total of 26 NRCSTD staff attended courses in science and technology
indicators, statistics, human resources issues, and program evaluation and technology transfer at universities
in the US, Netherlands, Canada, UK, Japan, Australia and Hong Kong. A further 60 staff participated in a
total of 15 study tours to science and technology and research institutes in Japan, France, Canada, Brazil,
USA, Japan, Austria, Italy, Netherlands, Switzerland, Belgium, Thailand, Singapore, Germany, UK, Mexico
and Korea.
In-country training. Two training courses were held, on science and technology planning methods
(1991), and science and technology indicators (1992), for a total of 60 participants. A further three
workshops were held in 1994 on science and technology indicators, information industries and science and
technology program evaluation. International experts participated in all in-country training courses and
workshops.
Equipment. NRCSTD purchased computer equipment as well as software on statistical analysis,
database management, and systems analysis, and received training in software and program evaluation. The
High-Tech Development Zone Database and Support System has provided services for SSTC, the Chinese
Academy of Sciences, and the State Foreign Trade and Co-operation Commission. Some delays occured in
equipment procurement.



Annex C
-42 -
Evaluation
The objectives were achieved highly satisfactorily. The subproject brought about a remarkable
improvement in the capacity of central and some local governments in formulating science and technology
development plans, ensured the successful formulation and implementation of the Eighth Five-Year Plan
science and technology component and also contributed to the development of the Ninth Five-Year Plan.
Working relations between NRCSTD, SPC and MOF were satisfactory; NRCSTD maintained staff
continuity in the implementation unit. However, NRCSTD experienced some problems with counterpart
fund repayment as a result of the devaluation of the RMB.



Annex C
- 43 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 13: Yellow River Basin Economic Modelling Study
Government implementing agency:       Reconnaissance, Planning and Research Institute,
Yellow River Conservation Commission, Ministry of
Water Resurces
Date of IDA approval:                 February 1990
Date of project completion:           May 1993
Allocation:                           SDR 735,000
Final disbursement:                    SDR 724,823 (99%)
Description
The objective of the subproject was to establish a water resources economic modelling system for the
Yellow River basin. This system would be used to develop policies for rational water resources utilization.
Implementation
Research. Five research reports were produced with the assistance of international consultants on the
following subjects: agricultural production and the economics of irrigated agriculture; costs of water
delivery; water quality and problems of sedimentation; and agricultural policy and market changes in the
Yellow River basin. In addition, YRCC produced model system studies and computer codes and manuals.
The consulting firm, American Water Resources Management Inc., assisted YRCC in developing an
economic modelling system from 1990-92. Overseas training. Four staff of YRCC attended a training course
in water resources modelling techniques in the US. Six staff took part in a study tour to the US Department
of Agriculture, Census Center, Geological Survey, Potomac Basin Committee and the Corps of Engineers.
In-country training. Eleven conferences on modelling techniques, including subproject supervision, were
held in the period 1990-93. Two workshops on water resources management methodologies were held in
1989-92 for a total of 30 participants. Equipment. The subproject financed the purchase of computer
equipment, including portables.
Follow-up activities
Proposed Yellow River Water Resources Utilization and Allocation Study. Study on water allocation
in drought years.
Evaluation
The subproject successfully developed the Yellow River water resource model system: a simulation
model, an optimization model and a graphics system. A full set of data has been collected on hydrology,
meteorology, hydraulic works and economic development of the Yellow River basin. Participation in
training and the acquisition of equipment have greatly developed the analytical capability of YRCC. The
model has been used to determine water resources utilization for the Jing and Datonghe rivers, and for
developing a medium and long-term plan for water supply and demand in the Yellow River basin. Some
implementation difficulties were experienced. In particular, the accumulation and processing of data was
highly labor-intensive; some staff lacked proficiency in scientific English.



Annex C
- 44 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 14:  ImDrovine the Science Fundins System and Promoting the
Development of Basic Scientific Research
Government implementing agency:      National Natural Science Foundation of China
Date of IDA approval:                July 1990
Date of project completion:          December 1993
Allocation:                           SDR 300,000
Final disbursement:                   SDR 296,121 (99%)
Description
The objectives of the subproject were: (a) to study strategies for the development of scientific
disciplines, (b) establish a computer information system, and (c) to enhance the flow of science funding by
promoting international co-operation and exchange.
Implementation
Research. A 56-volume study on Strategies of Scientific Discipline Development was completed.
Overseas training. Six staff participated in study tours on funding for scientific projects in the UK, Norway,
France and Germany; a further six visited the US and Japan to participate in seminars on scientific discipline
development. In-country training. An international seminar on Improvement and Development of Science
Funding was held in Beijing in 1992 and brought together representatives of scientific research institutes
from 24 countries. Equipment. The subproject financed the purchase of computing equipment and database
and management information system software, as well as training for computer operators in the US and
Hong Kong.
Evaluation
The subproject achieved all of its major objectives. Furthermore, NSFC staff were able to develop
contacts with international research institutes, for example through Internet, and establish core research
groups on specialized subjects.



Annex C
- 45 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 15: Planning of Electronics Industry DeveloDment
Government implementing agency:       Ministry of Electronics Industry
Date of IDA approval:                 October 1990
Date of project completion:           July 1994
Allocation:                           SDR 1,800,000
Final disbursement:                   SDR 1,479,671 (82%)
Description
The objectives were: (a) to analyze and develop practical proposals for medium and long-tern
development strategies and policies for China's electronics industry and forecast developments in the global
electronics industry; (b) to raise the level of strategic, technical and economic analysis and planning; and (c)
to improve the technical facilities and research software of the China Academy of Electronics Industry
Development (CAEID), which is responsible for strategic planning and analysis.
Implementation
Research. Seven research projects were undertaken in collaboration with IDI Consultants (Ireland),
resulting in the preparation of the following reports: (a) Strategies for Electronics Industry Development in
the 1990s, (b) Scientific Procedures and Lead Time of China's Electronics Industry Planning, (c) Strategies
for Microelectronics Industry Development, (d) Strategies to Develop an Internationally Competitive
Computer Industry, (e) Export Strategies for China's Consumer Electronics Products, (f) Strategies for
Developing Communications Products, and (g) Strategies for Electronic Components, Instruments and
Special Equipment.
Overseas training. Fourteen Ministry staff attended training courses in Ireland in 1993 on the
following subjects: industrial policy, strategic planning and implementation, computer-aided technologies,
techniques and methods of enterprise management, and industrial development trends. Thirty-three staff
took part in study tours to electronics enterprises in Japan, US, Singapore, Malaysia, Korea, France and
Ireland. In-country training. Three seminars were held in 1993 and 1994 in connection with subproject
preparation. IDI consultants designed and implemented specialized training courses for Ministry staff in
formuiation of industrial strategies, marketing and computer system integration. Equipment. The subproject
financed the purchase of computing equipment and network software.
Evaluation
The objectives of the subproject were achieved satisfactorily. Both Ministry staff and Chinese
consultants developed expertise in strategic planning and deepened their knowledge of domestic and
international trends in the development of the electronics industry.



Annex C
- 46 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 16: Key Machinery and Basic Products (Machine Tool Sector Study)
Government implementing agency:       Ministry of Machinery and Electronics Industry
Date of IDA approval:                  September 1991
Date of project completion:           Subproject cancelled at the request of SPC.
Allocation:                           SDR 0 (originally SDR 841,000, reduced by SDR 841,000
in 1994)
Final disbursement:                    SDR 0



Annex C
-47-
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 17: Energy Price Research
Government implementing agency       Department of Market and Price, SPC
Date of IDA approval:                June 1992
Date of project completion:          December 1994
Allocation:                           SDR 425,000
Final disbursement:                   SDR 240,468 (57%)
Description
The objective of the subproject was to carry out a macroeconomic analysis of energy pricing reform,
including energy supply and demand forecasts, and the position of energy pricing reform vis-a-vis the overall
pricing reform process in the Eighth and Ninth Five-Year Plan periods.
Implementation
Research. Seven reports were completed, on the following subjects: (a) problems and prospects for
energy prices in China, (b) impact of western market price policies on energy prices, (c) coal prices, (d)
electric power prices, (e) oil and gas price policy, (f) petroleum products price and circulation policy, and
(g) influence of energy price reform on macroeconomic policy. Overseas training. Sixty-two staff took part
in study tours to the US, Japan, Korea, UK, Germany, Canada, France and Australia, visiting universities,
energy corporations and utilities and energy ministries. In-country seminars. Two conferences were held, on
energy pricing reform and on oil price and distribution systems.
Evaluation
Completion of research reports and participation in study tours developed the expertise of SPC staff
in managing the energy sector under a market economic system. The subproject covered a wide range of
energy sub-sectors. Some problems were experienced in developing relations with overseas institutions and
with repayment of counterpart funds.



Annex C
- 48 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 18: Poverty Alleviation Studies
Government implementing agency:    SPC, in conjunction with the Ministries of Finance, Water
Conservancy, and Communication, and the China Agricultural
Development Bank, People's Bank, State Statistical Bureau,
and the Leading Group of Economic Development in Poverty-
Stricken Areas under the State Council.
Date of IDA approval:              October 1992
Date of project completion:        December 1994
Allocation:                        SDR 404,000
Final disbursement:                SDR 300,915 (75%)
Description
The objectives were to study and develop long-term poverty alleviation policies in low-income regions. In
particular, the subproject sought to identify priorities for infrastructual investment and options for establishing
special poverty alleviation funds. The subproject also aimed to develop a Workfare Program and establish a
database for ongoing poverty monitoring and assessment.
Implementation
Research. The subproject financed the following policy studies: (a) infrastructure development in poverty-
stricken areas, (b) anti-poverty credit policy measures and development and utilization of special poverty alleviation
funds, (c) statistical poverty assessment, and (d) project management and information systems for the Workfare
Program in Shanxi Province. Overseas Training. A total of 36 staff from the implementing agencies attended
training courses in economic policy, statistical analysis and finance/credit in the US, France and Germany. A furthe
104 staff participated in study tours to the US and Australia to investigate social security systems, poverty
alleviation strategies and regional planning. In-country training. 170 staff attended courses on statistical analysis fo
poverty assessment and relief work. In-country seminars. Six seminars were organized in the period 1992-94, on
statistical analysis and comparitive poverty alleviation strategies. Equipment. The project financed the purchase of
computers and database software, used for project management in 23 provinces and autonomous regions.
Follow-up activities
The results of the studies, together with the "8-7 Poverty Alleviation Fortification Plan", were used in
designing the Southwest Poverty Alleviation Project for Yunnan, Guizhou and Sichuan Provinces.
Evaluation
Basic project objectives were achieved. Research recommendations for improving the Workfare Program,
establishing poverty alleviation credits as well as monitoring systems, were adopted by relevant government
departments. The findings of the study on a poverty allevation fund were incorporated into the official "8-7
Poverty Alleviation Fortification Plan". SPC and the Shanxi Provincial Planning Commission carried out follow-
up research into Workfare systems. The China State Statistical Bureau has built on the database work to establish
a comprehensive Chinese Poverty Monitoring Data Base covering 592 counties. Some difficulties were
experienced in selection of overseas training institutes.



Annex C
- 49 -
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 19: Study of National Flood Control and Disaatch System. Phase I
Government implementing agency:       State Flood Control Headquarters General Office
Date of IDA approval:                 November, 1992
Date of project completion:           December 1994
Allocation:                           SDR 1,100,000
Final disbursement:                   SDR 1,007,126 (92%)
Description
The objectives of the subproject were: (a) to establish a local computer network for a National Flood
Control System at the State Flood Control Headquarter's General Office, (b) to develop an integrated
database and an interactive forecasting program, and (c) to provide advanced tools and facilities for
collecting and processing flood information, flood forecasting and dispatching. Phase I consisted of the
establishment of a pilot flood control and dispatch system on the Huai river above Zhengyangguan as this
area had experienced catastrophic flooding in 1991. The pilot scheme would form the basis for a system
which could be extended to all seven major rivers in China.
Implementation
Research: The subproject financed a feasibility study for developing Phase II of the National Flood
Control and Dispatch Systems. Overseas training: Staff of the State Flood Control Headquarters visited the
US and Singapore for training in flood forecasting methods, and in development of information and
computer operating systems. In-country training: Seminars were arranged in China in the application of new
technologies in flood control and forecasting, network engineering and decision support systems.
Equipment: The subproject financed computer equipment and interactive flood forecasting, hydro-
meteorological and database software. As a result of these activities, the implementing agency was able to
establish an integrated network which provides information on hydrometeorological data and hydraulic
works in the Huai basin, as well as a decision support capability. The system is linked with the National
Weather Services.
Follow-up activities
In Phase II this pilot system will be expanded to a national flood cortrol decision-making system.
Evaluation
The implementation of the subproject has had considerable practical benefits and has also laid the
foundation for a broader flood control program. Study tours allowed State Flood Control staff to broaden
and deepen their technical expertise. This has resulted in the development of a core group of skilled
personnel. The acquisition of computer equipment has enabled standardization of data, and of interface and
transmission protocols.



Annex 
SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE
Subproject No. 20: International Ouality Assurance in China
Gvvernment implementing agency:      China Council for the Promotion of International
Quality Assurance, State Bureau for Technological
Supervision.
Date of IDA approval:                 September, 1994
Date of project completion:           December, 1994 (incomplete)
Allocation:                           SDR 1,910,000
Final disbursement:                   SDR 1,258,546 (66%)
Description
The objectives were to establish a China Quality Assurance Training Center, compile a series of
quality assurance textbooks, train personnel in quality assurance and integrate China with the ISO 9000
system.
Implementation
Overseas training. A total of 105 staff attended 30-60 day courses in quality management
training, international quality assurance, training coordination and ISO 9000. Equipment. The
subproject financed computer and network equipment as well as database software and training manuals.
Evaluation
A well-equipped training centre was established, enabling the training of quality assurance
professionals and enterprise managers. CCPQA has also built up a Quality Information Center. In light of
the late approval of this subproject, not all components could be completed before Credit closing. A follow-
up subproject is being implemented under the Reform, Institutional Support and Preinvestment Project
(Cr.2447).



I~~~~









I






