CREDIT NUMBER 1835 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Planning Support and Special Studies Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated        /     \     11     , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1835 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       ,el99  bex /          , 1987, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "Ministry of Finance" means th- Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower, and any successor thereto;
(c) "Sub-project" means a particular study or project
meeting the criteria described in Part A or Part B of the Project
and selected by agreement between the Borrower and the Association
pursuant to Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(d) "State Planning Commission" means the State Planning
Commission of the Borrower and any successor thereto.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 15,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a bank and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Sectiou 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1997, and ending March 1,
2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 1, 2007 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and
one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
its State Planning Commission and Ministry of Finance, and shall
cause each Sub-project to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, technical
and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall make funds available out of
the proceeds of the Credit for Sub-projects with a repayment
period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace and a service
charge of 1% per annum.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for
the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿-5-
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Additional Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, terminate in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account on account of
any Sub-project if any of the following events shall have occurred
and be continuing:
(a) the Borrower shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation under this Agreement in respect of such
Sub-project;
(b) the contract for the employment of consultants to assist
in the carrying out of such Sub-project shall not have come into
force and effect within six months from the date of the
Association's approval of such Sub-project pursuant to the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbaple that such Sub-project can be carried out in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council
shall have approved the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                    Telex:
FINANMIN                        22486 MFPRC
Beij ing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'8 REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  4/Aovf~~ l4                
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the alloration of the
amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit                % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Goods                       3,200,000      100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(2) Consultants'               12,700,000      100%
services,
training
and overseas
study tours
TOTAL                15,900,000


﻿-9-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "loca. expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(a) strengthening its development policy and planning capability
through studies for preparation of its 8th Five Year Plan; (b)
preparing and implementing inter-sectoral and innovative technical
assistance projects; and (c) strengthening key institutions
responsible for economic and financial reform.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Planning Support
Supporting the preparation of the Borrower's 8th Five Year
Plan through Sub-projects consisting of planning studies for the
iron and steel, petrochemical, electric power and other sectors.
Part B:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Preparing and implementing technical assistance Sub-projects,
generally inter-sectoral, innovative or experimental in nature,
including (a) strengthening macro-economic planning, and (b) the
development of the domestic consulting industry.
2.   Supporting the Borrower's economic and financial reformsi
through Sub-projects to provide training inside and outside China
for:
(a) national planning system officials;
(b) central banking system staff;
(c) national financial system officials; -;nd
(d) other relevant central and local government officials.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A. International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B. Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $1,300,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
2.   Items which are proprietary and only available from one
source may be procured through direct purchase from suppliers in
accordance with procedures acceptable to che Association.
Part D. Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special


﻿12 -
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information re-
quired to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
For the purpose of carrying out each Sub-project which
requires the employment of consultants, the Borrower shall cause
its department or agency responsible for the execution of the Sub-
project to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   (a) The purpose and scope of each Sub-project, the method of
implementation thereof and the specific allocation thereto of
proceeds of the Credit shall be determined by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
(b) Each Sub-project shall be of high priority in the
Borrower's development efforts and shall have no equally suitable
financing available from the United Nations Development Programme
or other external financing agencies.
2.   Sub-project proposals. Except as the Association may other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall submit, for each Sub-project, the
following to the Association for its approval:
(a) a description of the studies and work to be carried out
in connection with the proposed Sub-project, including a time
schedule for, the purposes and objectives of, and the benefits
expected from such Sub-project;
(b) the proposed selection procedures, qualifications, terms
of reference and duration of service for any consultants to be
engaged for the purposes of the proposed Sub-project;
(c) a description of the role of the department or agency or
personnel of the Borrower to be responsible for the execution of
the proposed Sub-project and counterpart staff, if any, to be
supplied by the Borrower;
(d) a general description of the arrangements to be made by
the executing agencies for the provision of office space,
secretarial facilities, transportation and other operational
facilities required for the Sub-project to proceed efficiently;
(e) estimated foreign and local costs of the proposed Sub-
project broken down by major items and showing amounts to be
financed by the Borrower and out of the proceeds of the Credit,
respectively, and an estimated disbursement schedule; and
(f) measures to be taken to comply with paragraphs 3 (b) and
(c) below.


﻿-14-
3.   Consultants
(a) Consultants shall be employed as provided in Section II
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all rea-
sonable measures to facilitate the work of consultants in the
performance of their services for the Project and make available
to them all information relevant to the Sub-project concerned.
(c) The Borrower shall not permit the amendment or waiver of
any material terms and conditions of employment of consultants
employed for any Sub-project, or the grant of any material exten-
sion of time or any approval of sub-contracts or modifications
thereof, or the agreement to substitute personnel of such
consultants, without prior agreement between the Borrower and the
Association. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association if
it proposes to suspend payments under or terminate any contract
with such consultants.
(d) The Borrower shall cause the Corsultants employed for
the Project promptly to furnish to the Association copies of the
documents prepared by them for the Project, including reports and
drafts thereof, in such number as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(e) The Borrower shall establish arrangements and
procedures, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, for
supervising and directing the work of any consultants employed for
Sub-projects and reviewing the reports and recommendations of such
consultants with the Association.
4.   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association the information
required under Section 9.06 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions in
semi-annual progress reports, to be provided to the Association by
February 28 and August 31 in each year, for the periods ending
December 31 and June 30, respectively.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiv-
alent to SDR 1,100,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the


﻿- 16 -
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 17 -
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


