Report No. PIC2564
Project Name              Ecuador-Export Development Project
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Private Sector Development
Project ID                ECPA40106
Borrower                  Republic of Ecuador
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration &
Fishing
Av. Eloy Alfaro y Amazones - 2do. piso
Casilla: 17-03-194-A
Quito, Ecuador
Telephone - 5932-543897
Fax - 5932-507549
Date PID Prepared         August 1, 1995
Projected Appraisal       April 1996
Projected Board Date      December 1996
Introduction.  This initial project concept has been developed as
a joint product of two rounds of discussions in Ecuador between
representatives of five producer and export associations headquartered
in Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca, a number of private firms, the
Government, and the Bank+s LA3PS staff. It outlines a starting concept
for an export development project for which World Bank support might be
sought, and reflects the explicit commitment of Ecuador+s principal
private sector producer and exporter associations, the Corporacion
Financiera Nacional (CFN) and the Government to initiate in
collaboration with the Bank the dialogue, analyses and other preparatory
work needed to determine the viability and final design of such a
project.
The Need to Accelerate Investment in Export Development. There is
a profound concern in Ecuador that development of the nation+s +export
mentality± and its export capacity are lagging, as measured against both
its own expectations following its major trade reform of 1990-92 and
performance elsewhere in the region. This lag in export response in
relation to trade liberalization is indeed observed in many countries
and merits specific attention. The basic needs of Ecuador to accelerate
its export development are twofold: (i) to increase the stability and
external shock-absorbing capacity of the balance of payments, and (ii)
to help realize the promise of outward-oriented development policies,
which foster market linkages to best practice technology and skills, the
allocation of resources to high productivity economic activities, and
socio-economic benefits which spillover to the domestic economy.
From the first perspective, various performance indicators of the
external sector reflect the need to diversify its production and export
base: domination of the economy by petroleum and derivative production
for over two decades, with prospects that this will eventually phase-
down; Ecuador+s heavy debt burden; a weak export structure; and its



vulnerability to external shocks:
+    total public debt is equivalent to over 90t of GDP and the
debt service burden accounts for aost 60t of goods and non-
factor service exports;
+    the trade balance, although positive, depends substantially on
petroleum revenues and has not been sufficient to cover debt
service payments;
+    petroleum price volatility, protectionist and non-transparent
policies of major trading partners for bananas, and pollution
threatening shrimp production all translate into considerable
uncertainty for the bulk of Ecuador+s exports; and
+    while a process of diversification of non-traditional export
capacity has taken place progressively for a few products,
this segment remains very small (3.3w of GDP).
For Ecuador to take advantage of outward-oriented development
through increased foreign trade, firms face a variety of constraints
with respect to Government second-generation trade policy and
administration issues, market penetration and access to finance. These
are discussed in more detail below.
Export Regulatory and Institutional Framework. A number of
fundamental policy reforms affecting the business environment for export
development have been made recently. Over 1990-92, most quantitative
import restrictions were eliminated, tariff levels and dispersion were
substantially reduced, and export taxes eliminated. In March 1992, an
Export Facilitation and Cargo Reserve Law was passed, eliminating export
licenses and ending the state transport monopoly. A Customs Law was
passed in 1994 that sought to simplify procedures and allow the private
sector to provide services that previously impeded smooth trade
transactions. Still, particularly as Ecuador is now completing
accession procedures for membership in the World Trade Organization
(WTO), much +second generation+ regulatory change is needed to alleviate
constraints to exports.
Ecuador+s current institutional structure for export development is
highly fragmented. At the Government level, the Ministry of Industry,
Commerce, Integration and Fishing has basic responsibility for export
development. However, some aspects are under the Ministry of
Agriculture, duty suspension and drawback systems are managed by the
Ministry of Finance, and trade negotiations and overseas promotion
activities of commercial representatives and several trade centers are
managed by the Ministry of Foreign Relations. Comparable fragmentation
has existed among private associations interested in export development,
such as the chambers of commerce of Pichincha and Guayaquil, FEDEXPOR
and COPEX, and Fundacion Ecuador, which has diminished the impact of
scarce resources. In practice, there has also been a rather low level
of cooperation between the public and private sectors in export
development.
However, there is a clear, commonly held aim among the discussants
in both the private and public sector to substantially accelerate the
pace of non-traditional export growth and to incorporate a broader
-2 -



segment of firms (especially smaller firms) into the export production
structure. There is a strong desire to consolidate efforts under a
sound export policy and institutional framework which emphasizes public-
private collaboration. This is evidenced, for example, by the decision
to put FEDEXPOR and COPEX under the same presidential leadership and by
the initiative of the private sector to prepare and present to the
Government recently a draft +Ley Marco de Promotion de Comercio
Exterior+. This latter step expresses the strong desire of the private
sector for the Government to increase its attention to foreign trade
policy and administration, to increasingly collaborate with the private
sector in this regard, and to pull together its organizational structure
and human resources to better focus on foreign trade management. The
passage of such an initiative would also be a most useful basis for the
proposed project.
There is also a strong understanding among the leading private and
public sector interests that their objectives will be achieved
essentially by substantially expanding the process of +learning to
export+. For this, there is a clear sense that new institutional
mechanisms and financial resources must be found to diffuse export-
related information and build international business skills.
Market Penetration. There are some excellent examples of successful
export entrepreneurship in a few product lines---for example, bananas
and cut flowers. While there is also considerable interest in
replicating this success in other areas, most firms have little
practical knowledge and skills in how to begin to export. They lack, in
particular, adequate knowledge of export markets product demand and
competitive position, and of requirements for design, quality, technical
standards and delivery. There are also highly inadequate information
systems at the enterprise level in such areas as import regulations,
packaging and label requirements, pricing, promotion and distribution
strategies, and trade finance instruments. Most firms with little
export experience are unable or unwilling to make the considerable
initial investments in information, advice and training required to
develop export capability and to assume the associated risks in
substantially unknown international markets. Most private sector
associations of producers, which can become organization agents &
utilize economies of scale, cannot at the outset muster the mandate from
their membership or readily convert themselves from lobby groups to
qualified service providers.
Trade Finance. Initial surveys of producers and bankers reflect
quite clearly that the range of enterprises which can participate in
exporting is also highly constrained by financial factors. There is an
absence of risk capital to meet the substantial initial software costs
of market penetration. Long-term capital for investment in export-
oriented production facilities (and occasionally short-term liquidity)
to respond to export orders appears to be scarce. Banks and other
intermediaries generally limit themselves to six-month loans, which are
often rolled over to finance longer-term needs. Second-tier credit
processing procedures create substantial undue delay and cost. Finally,
and equally importantly, instruments are not available to mitigate the
substantial credit risks associated with new export initiatives, which
are derived from potential exporter non-performance according to
- 3 -



contract specifications and/or losses from importer non-payment (a
problem even among well established, competitive Ecuadorian businesses
selling flowers and bananas).
Project Objective and Design Options. The overall development
objective of the project would be to accelerate Ecuador+s investment in
export capacity. The initial project concept would include three
component options, summarized below, as the starting point for project
preparation, fully recognizing that this configuration might well be
modified during the process of discussion, analysis and design.
Public Sector Trade Modernization Component. This component would
aim to consolidate the institutional structure and expand the expertise
in the public sector needed to manage trade policy and its
administration.    It might include the following:
+    adjustments in selected trade regulations and practices, such
as the duty exemption/drawback mechanism, standards and
certification systems, and a safeguards mechanism; and
+    a training program to expand the technical capacity within the
Government to manage trade policy formulation and
implementation (such as managing compliance with WTO
agreements with respect to subsidies, technical barriers,
trade taxes, rules of origin and customs valuation procedures,
etc.).
Market Penetration Component. This component would support
establishment of an export development corporation, proposed by trade
associations as a joint venture with the Government, and a number of its
initial programs. The corporation would essentially be a vehicle to
acceleratge the flow of product, market, and marketing information and
training in international business to local enterprises. In addition to
helping to design and startup the corporation with the benefit of cross-
country experience, this component might include the following
initiatives:
+    an export advisory service fund providing assistance on a
matching basis in an untargeted, demand-driven manner at the
subsector level (e.g., for international competitiveness
diagnostics) and at the firm level to facilitate research and
development of products capable of securing sustainable market
penetration. The fund would build firm-level linkages with the
international marketplace by facilitating access to
information and advisory services pertaining to market
research, technological norms and quality standards, product
adaptation and promotion. Its operation would help to
overcome asymmetries of information and lack of
entrepreneurial appreciation of the value of such information
and advice;
+    an international business training program devoted to areas
such as international trade practices (e.g., contracts,
inspection, shipping, financing), marketing (e.g., research,
product and pricing strategies, distribution), and
- 4 -



international business law (e.g., taxes and tariffs, technical
cooperation, trade laws, conflict resolution); and
+    other programs and seminars on export-related topics of broad
corporate interest, such as quality control, bar coding,
developing brand name recognition, packaging and
transportation, etc.
Export Finance Component.      This component would, in particular,
be developed under the auspices of the CFN (though not necessarily with
its direct financial or managerial involvement in the products of
preparation work) and might include two new mechanisms which do not at
present exist in Ecuador---preshipment export finance guarantee and
postshipment export credit insurance instruments to increase access of
firms to export financing. It could include:
+    Bank assistance in the establishment of a preshipment finance
guarantee fund. Such a fund would provide to financial
institutions a collateral substitute and risk pooling
instrument to facilitate access to credit by firms without
sufficient export experience but with good export prospects.
Intermediaries would assume a meaningful portion of the risk
of each operation to ensure the quality of risk assessment and
supervision. The fund would need to fully cover its costs and
be self-sustaining. Management arrangements would be defined
according to fund performance criteria; and
+    Bank assistance to help set up an export credit insurance
facility to provide insurance coverage against commercial
risks stemming from the lack of adequate information on the
creditworthiness of foreign buyers and the political risks
associated particularly with inaccessability to foreign
exchange by buyers for payment. This facility might be owned
as a joint venture between interested local insurance
companies and banks and the public sector.
Various alternatives for Bank support of this component would be
explored, including start-up technical assistance, capitalization, and
contingent loan and guarantee arrangements.
Private Sector Participation. There is consensus among the
participants that the project would need, foremost (a) substantial
participation in project design, ownership in implementation, and
financial cost-sharing by the private sector itself, and (b) effective
implementation arrangements which would ensure a high probability of
expeditious project execution. The strong participation of the private
sector during both rounds of discussions and a readiness on the part of
the Ministry of Industry to explore innovative implementation
arrangements with direct private sector inputs are favorable signs that
these two principals can be applied.
Project Cost and Financing. A first guesstimate of total project
cost based upon the above-mentioned components is $32 million. A
starting concept for the financing plan would consist of private sector
matching contributions totaling some $11 million and a Bank loan of some
$20 million (covering inter alia $3 million for the public sector trade
modernization component, $8 million for the export advisory service
- 5 -



fund and $2 million for an export business training program, and $7
million for the export finance component). Such numbers are highly
subject to change according to final project design.
Project Implementation. The overall responsibility for project
implementation is expected to be the Government+s principle foreign
trade policy management entity: probably a new ministry of foreign
trade, though possibly the current Ministry of Industry. The market
penetration component is expected to be implemented by the proposed
export development corporation and the export finance components by
either the CFN or a newly created unit closely connected to the Ministry
of Finance. Implementation options will be carefully assessed during
project preparation and innovative means, such as joint ventures and
management contracting, considered to provide a high probability of
swift and efficient project implementation.
Sustainability. Project preparation will be undertaken with strong
participation of user group representatives in its design and with the
aim of ensuring a high level of private sector participation in the
institution-building process, with respect to decision-making, operation
and financing. These are, at the outset, the most important parameters
in seeking ultimate sustainability of this initiative.
Lessons from Previous Experience. (see Annex 1)
Poverty Category. It is expected that the project will not be
included in the Program of Targeted Interventions. However, the
possible linkages between low income groups in Ecuador and indirect
exporters (ie., those providing raw materials, intermediates or finished
components to exporters) will be carefully examined and possible project
support for such a group will be undertaken if feasible.
Environmental Aspects. Category C - the project is expected to
finance primarily technical assistance services (information, advice and
training) to acquire the knowledge and information to increase export
capacity. This will provide the opportunity for individual firms to
incorporate in this effort knowledge about market trends, regulations,
product design and production processes related to environmental
pollution control and safety. However, the project is unlikely to
finance specific capital investment for which environmental assessments
and screening would be required as part of either project preparation or
implementation (see Annex 2 for Environmental Data Sheet).
Program objectives Categories. Private Sector Development (PV).
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
- 6-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
-7 -



Annex 1
Lessons from Past Bank Assistance
Trade Policy and Administration. A Bank-wide analysis of trade
policy reforms has reflected support for export development in 35 trade
adjustment loans.(see 1/) One or more of the following export policy
adjustments were addressed in these operations: elimination of
restrictions on exports (eg., licensing, quotas, bans), reduction of
export taxes and subsidies, improved access of exporters to imports
(duty-free imports schemes), export credit (pre- and postshipment
financing, insurance schemes, fixed investment for exporters), and
export promotion (reforms of public trade promotion organizations).
This assessment concluded that adjusting countries that have placed
an equal emphasis on export as well as import policy changes have
reduced adjustment costs associated with lost output and unemployment in
inefficient industries through the early shift in resources to export
industries. Of equal importance, other analyses (see 2/) indicate the
need to provide policy and institutional infrastructural support to an
incipient export drive so as to achieve a critical momentum that confers
on interest groups sufficient political power to avoid strong advocacy
of policies to reinstate protectionism. Also, it is essential that the
main benefits of such support mechanisms must be well understood by
government authorities and exporters alike for them to be accepted and
well implemented.(see 3/)
Good projects performance also requires that reforms go beyond the
legal aspects of regulatory reforms to management and operating issues
based upon sufficient analytical depth. For example, the absence of
such work has made the implementation of reforms in the duty drawback
system slow and inadequate.(see 4/) In the case of Colombia, the Trade
Policy and Export Diversification Project (FY85) inter alia did reduce
the dispersion of indirect tax rebates (CERTs), simplified the criteria
for eligibility in the PV duty exemption and provided for automatic
import licenses for production inputs needed by exporters. However, the
Project failed to achieve essential increases in the operating
efficiency and coverage of PV, and did not address the inconsistent,
unpredictable administration by the Government of CERTs which has
directed subsidies to selected exporters.(see 5/)
The Bank's export promotion measures have consisted mainly of
providing technical assistance to or through public trade promotion
organizations (TPOs) in 23 lending operations in at least 18 countries
since 1979.(see 6/) While quantification and causality are very
difficult to establish, careful assessments have concluded that lasting
results in the form of incremental exports were rarely evident. TPOs
have infrequently proven capable even with technical assistance of
effectively providing enterprise-level support services (Sri Lanka,
Mauritius) and have experienced difficulty in becoming well established
given considerable leadership turnover with changes in political
administration and inexperienced staff (Philippines, Jamaica). Such
evaluations have further shown that TPOs have generally operated in an
policy environment favoring import substitution, did not address the
highly individualistic needs of exporters (particularly in regard to the
most difficult tasks of adaptation of products for external markets and
- 8 -



improving supply capabilities), were unclear or unrealistic in their
objectives, and were ineffective in influencing public policy towards
exports.
Such experience is corroborated by other assessments(see 7/) and
offer a number of lessons for the design of Bank support for export
promotion. Mechanisms should be employed with clear and direct support
to the generation of exports by producers. Particularly with the broad
access to market information offered by current technology, reliance on
a single, centralized source of support services which frequently impose
government promotion programs on exporters is no longer appropriate.
Promotion entities should rather be organized as joint or wholly private
promotion organizations which are fully responsive to exporters priority
needs, and provide services which are not otherwise available in the
marketplace, mainly involving newer and smaller scale exporters.
Service delivery should rely more on expanding access to commercial
service suppliers generally found overseas. Staff remaining in core
entities must be trained and experienced in the export field and
compensated at competitive rates. Financially, increased stress needs to
be placed on cost recovery as a central indicator of value of export
promotion. Specific time-bound projects in partnership with private
enterprise through matching grant schemes should also be employed as
temporary mechanisms to overcome market failures. In any case, the
funding of programs and operations should not depend upon high levels of
guaranteed funding. Finally, it should be recognized that promotion
efforts will not be effective on their own, but only when accompanied by
a supportive neutral policy environment and other export support
instruments.
The real sector cannot deliver an adequate supply response at the
outset of trade reform without an appropriate mix of macroeconomic and
financial sector policies coupled with quick, sure access to liquidity.
Large fiscal deficits need to be reduced to ensure sufficient access of
the private sector to domestic credit. Financial sector policies should
promote a competitive market structure absent of credit controls.
Experience in several cases also argues in favor of a backup facility to
ensure funding of export transactions, either in the form of a revolving
fund or other mechanism.(see 8/) It is important, however, that this
mechanism be designed to be speedy and cost-effective so as to be
consistent with the market response times required by export markets.
1/   See "World Bank Support for Trade Policy Reform" (Report No. 9527),
April 22, 1991 by OED.
2/   See PPAR for the Chile SAL I, II and III (Report No. 8851),
June 26, 1990 by OED.
3/   See PCR for Pakistan Export Development Loan (Lo 2701-PAK),
December 15, 1988 by EMENA.
4/   See PPAR for Brazil Export Development Project (Report 8327) of
January 12, 1990 by OED.
5/   See PPAR for Colombia Trade Policy and Export Diversification
Project (Report 9528) of April 26, 1991 by OED.
6/   See "Development Assistance Gone Wrong: Failures in Services to
Promote and Support Manufactured Exports, Annex 2: "World Bank
Eperience with the Public Institution Approach", CED, 1990.
-9-



7/   See "Comparative Study of National Export Promotion Institutions
and Programmes", Trade Development Institute of Ireland, May 1991.
8/   See PPARs for the Mexico First and second Export Development
Projects (Report No. 8875 of June 29, 1990), the Costa Rica Export
Development Loan (Report 7779 of May 10, 1989) and the Brazil
Export Development Loan (Report 8327 of January 12, 1990).
- 10 -



