Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4346-EC
Loan Agreement
(International Trade and Integration Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 7, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4346-EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 7, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995, as amended through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Annual Operating Plan” means any of the plans referred to 
in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means Eligible Grassroots Beneficiaries or 
Eligible Learning and Innovation Beneficiaries (as defined below);
(c)
“COMEXI” means Consejo de Comercio Exterior e Inversiones, 
the Borrower’s foreign trade and investment council established pursuant 
to the Foreign Trade and Investment Law (as defined below);
(d)
“CORPEI” means Corporación de Promoción de Exportaciones e 
Inversiones established by the Trade and Investment Law;
(e)
“CORPEI Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and CORPEI pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to such agreement;
(f)
“Customs Administration” means the Borrower’s Customs Office 
or any legal  entity to be created by the Borrower as a successor to such 
office;
(g)
“Eligible Grassroots Beneficiary” means a micro-enterprise, 
an entrepreneur or a micro-enterprise association which is eligible as a 
beneficiary of a Grassroots Growth Subproject in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual (as defined below);
(h)
“Eligible Learning and Innovation Beneficiary” means an 
enterprise, a producer or trade association which is eligible as a 
beneficiary of a Learning and Innovation Subproject (as defined below) in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual;
(i)
“Foreign Trade and Investment Law” means the Borrower’s law 
No. 12 published in the Gazette No. 82 Supplement, dated June 9, 1997 (as 
defined below);
(j)
“Gazette” means Registro Oficial, the Borrower’s official 
gazette;
(k)
“Grassroots Growth Subproject” means a subproject for 
industrial research or pre-competitiveness activities to be carried out 
by an Eligible Grassroots Growth Subproject Beneficiary which is eligible 
for financing, in part, out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of the Operational Manual;
(l)
“Indicators” means the performance monitoring indicators set 
forth in a supplemental letter of even date herewith;
Page  3
(m)
“INEN” means Instituto Ecuatoriano de Normalización, the 
Borrower’s institute of quality products standards established pursuant 
to its decree law No. 357 dated April 28, 1970 published in the Gazette 
on September 7, 1970, as such decree law has been amended to the date of 
this Agreement;
(n)
“INEN Commercial Services” means the calibration, testing, 
and quality promotion services being provided by INEN;
(o)
“INH” means Instituto Nacional de Higiene, the Borrower’s 
hygiene institute established pursuant to the Borrower’s law published in 
the Gazette on October 23, 1941;
(p)
“Integrated System of Financial and Administrative 
Information” means a system providing integrated planning, budgeting, 
accounting, and treasury information and analysis, for decision-making, 
monitoring and evaluation, as well as human resource information and 
materials control systems and internal regulations and procedures;
(q)
“Learning and Innovation Subproject” means a subproject for 
industrial research or pre-competitiveness activities to be carried out 
by an Eligible Learning and Innovation Subproject Beneficiary which is 
eligible for financing, in part, out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual;
(r)
“MICIP” means Ministerio de Comercio Exterior, 
Industrialización y Pesca, the Borrower’s Ministry of Foreign Trade, 
Industry and Fishing;
(s)
“Operational Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, setting forth the criteria for selection and the procedures for 
implementation and supervision of Grassroots Growth Subprojects and 
Learning and Innovation Subprojects;
(t)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of 
letters dated November 27, 1995 and January 4, 1996 between the Borrower 
and the Bank;
(u)
“Project Technical Support Unit” means the unit referred to 
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(v)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(w)
“Subprojects” means Grassroots Growth Subprojects or 
Learning and Innovation Subprojects; and
(x)
“WTO” means the World Trade Organization.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to twenty one million Dollars ($21,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Page  4
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works, services and 
Subprojects required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank or a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank including, in the event the account is opened in 
a commercial bank, protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation 
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid 
charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from 
and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding 
the next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank 
offered rate for 
six-month deposits in dollars for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) one half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(B) minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single 
currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that 
Page  5
include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March 15 
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end: 
(i)
shall carry out:
(A)
Parts A.1, C.1, C.2, C.3 and D of the Project 
through MICIP;
(B)
Part A.2 of the Project through the Customs 
Administration; and
(C)
Part C.4 of the Project through MICIP with the 
assistance of  INEN, 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
trade, administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and 
technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A, C and D of 
the Project; and
(ii)
without any limitation or restrictions upon any of 
its other obligations under 
the Loan Agreement 
shall:
(A)
through the CORPEI Subsidiary Agreement cause 
CORPEI to:
(I) 
carry out Part B of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency 
and in 
Page  6
conformity with appropriate trade, administrative, 
financial, engineering, environmental and 
technical practices; 
and
(II)
provide the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources 
necessary or appropriate to carry out Part B of the Project; and
(B)
not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or 
interfere with the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall  transfer: (i) on a grant basis, 
$10,500,000 out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance Parts B.2 and B.3 
of the Project and a portion of Part B.4 of the Project; and (ii) on a 
loan basis, $1,000,000 out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance a 
portion of Part B.4 of the Project, to CORPEI under a subsidiary 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CORPEI, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the CORPEI Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
CORPEI Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
(d)
(i)
In the event that during the implementation of the 
Project the Customs 
Administration is 
restructured as a legal entity, the Borrower shall not later 
than ninety days after the new entity has appointed a legal 
representative, 
enter into an agreement with such 
entity, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of making available the 
outstanding 
proceeds of the Loan allocated for Part 
A.2 of the Project; (ii) the Borrower 
shall 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the agreement 
referred to in (i) herein in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the 
Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce such agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 
(a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain within MICIP, until 
completion of the Project, a Project technical support unit staffed by 
professionals with qualifications, experience, functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by qualified 
personnel in adequate numbers.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
Page  7
objectives thereof;
(b)
by no later than November 30 of each year, until completion 
of the Project, furnish to the Bank for its approval, an annual operating 
plan for the implementation of the Project during the upcoming twelve 
months, such plan to comprise: (i) the main activities to be carried out 
under the Project during the respective year; (ii) the objectives, and 
expected results or outputs of such activities; (iii) the corresponding 
cost estimates and budgets, including the counterpart funds; (iv) the 
proposed revisions to the Indicators, if applicable; and (v) the relevant 
institutional arrangements and responsibilities;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank 
and furnish to the Bank on or about April 30, July 31, October 31 and 
January 31 each year, commencing October 31, 1998 a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date;
(d)
review with the Bank:  (i) by July 31 each year, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the reports referred to in 
subparagraph (c) of this Section; and (ii) by July 31, 2000, in addition 
to the reports referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, the 
socio-economic impact of the Subprojects; and
(e)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports 
and the Bank views on the matter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that Subprojects are 
appraised, selected, carried out, financed, monitored and supervised in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall not later than June 30, 1999, 
bring INEN Commercial Services to the point of sale.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall not later than March 1, 1999 
present to its Congress: (a) a bill of law to adopt duty drawback 
regulations allowing the participation in the duty drawback system of 
domestic producers supplying intermediate goods to exporters; and (b) a 
bill of law to create a national quality council.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall not later than six months after 
the Effective Date (or such later date as the Bank shall request)  review 
with the Bank the progress made by CORPEI in carrying out Parts B.2 and 
B.3 of the Project, in particular the percentages of expenditures 
Page  8
financed with Loan proceeds as set forth in Category (4) (a) of the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. As a result of such 
review, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower increase the percentage of 
expenditures under Category (4) (a) up to 50%.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection 
with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to 
the Bank consistently applied, by 
independent private auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than four 
months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such financial 
statements, records and accounts 
and a report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Page  9
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
CORPEI  shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the CORPEI Subsidiary Agreement;
(b)
if applicable, the Customs Administration shall have failed 
to perform any of its obligations under the  agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (d) (i) of this Agreement;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that CORPEI or the Customs Administration (if 
the event set forth in Section 3.01 (d) (i) of this Agreement occurs) 
will be able to perform their respective obligations under the CORPEI 
Subsidiary Agreement and the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (d) 
(i) of this Agreement;
(d)
the Foreign Trade and Investment Law shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the 
opinion of the Bank, materially, and adversely the operations or the 
financial condition of CORPEI or its ability to carry out Part B of the 
Project or to perform any of its obligations under the CORPEI Subsidiary 
Agreement;
(e)
the Borrower’s Ministerial Agreement No. 0416 of December 
24, 1997 or Decree 651 of September 19, 1997 or Decree 331 of October 31, 
1997 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so 
as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the 
ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project; 
(f)
the Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated,  repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the 
Bank, materially and adversely the ability of CORPEI to carry out Parts 
B.2 and B.3 of the Project; and
(g)
the amendments to the Borrower’s trade regulations referred 
to in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall have been 
reversed, suspended, amended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability 
of the Borrower to achieve the objectives of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (f) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank 
to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) or (g)  of 
Page  10
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Operational Manual shall have been adopted by CORPEI;
(b)
the CORPEI Subsidiary Agreement shall have been entered into 
by the parties thereto;
(c)
CORPEI shall have furnished to the Bank, for its review, the 
short list and the request for proposals (as such term is defined in 
paragraph 2.8 of the Consultant Guidelines referred to in Section II, 
Part A, of Schedule 4 to this Agreement) for selecting the consulting 
firm referred to in Part B.4 of the Project; and
(d)
a system, satisfactory to the Bank, for the administrative, 
financing and accounting control of the Project, shall have been put into 
operation.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, 
that the CORPEI Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into and is legally 
binding upon the parties thereto.
Section 6.03. The date January 7, 1999 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Av. 10 de agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFINAZAS
22358 MINFIN
Quito, Ecuador
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
Page  11
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) 
or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Fidel Jaramillo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
  (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 
80% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
 1,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants'
Services and
Training
(a) for Part A.1 (d)
   200,000
)
Page  12
of the Project
)
)
(b) for Part B.4 of
 1,500,000
)
the Project
)
)
(c) for Parts C.1,
 2,800,000
)
C.2 and C.3 of the
)
Project
)
)
(d) for all other
 4,700,000
)
Parts of the Project
)
(4)
Subprojects
(a) under Part B.2
 7,000,000
)
30%
of the Project
)
)
(b) under Part B.3
 3,000,000
)
50%
of the Project
)
(5)
Refunding of
   600,000
Amounts due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
TOTAL
21,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “Consultants’ Services and Training” means the cost 
of consultants’ services, including those of the Technical Support Unit, 
and related travel, training, workshops and information and publication 
services, all as required for Parts A, B.4 and C of the Project, and 
auditors as referred to in Part D of the Project; and
(d)
the term “Subprojects” means the cost of information 
services, training, travel of a Beneficiary, demonstration equipment, 
technical advisory service fees, quality or environmental testing and 
certification, as required for a Subproject, and the cost of the 
consulting firm’s fees for the management of the implementation of Parts 
B.2 and B.3 of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
$2,100,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after February 24, 1998;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (3) (a) unless 
the Borrower shall have adopted amendments to its trade regulations of 
April 1, 1998 to set forth procedures which shall ensure adequate 
consideration of domestic consumers interests related to safeguards, 
Page  13
antidumping and countervailing measures; and
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category (3) (c) unless 
the Borrower shall have issued criteria and procedures for the 
establishment of mandatory standards of products which are:  (i) based on 
health, safety, security, environmental, and prevention of deceptive 
practices considerations; and (ii) consistent with the WTO requirements 
set forth in the Code of Good Practice for the Preparation, Adoption and 
Application of Standards of the WTO Agreement on Technical Barriers to 
Trade.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
services under contracts costing less than: (i) $100,000 
equivalent for consulting firms; and (ii) $50,000 equivalent for 
individual consultants;
(b)
goods under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; 
and
(c)
works, Subprojects, and incremental operating costs,
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to promote increased socio-economic 
growth of the Ecuadorian economy through international trade development 
and integration with the global economy.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
International Trade Management
1.
International Trade Management and Access to International Markets
(a)
Training of the staff of MICIP and COMEXI as well as of the 
members of the institutions which are represented in the board of COMEXI 
to help ensure conformity with WTO agreements and reporting requirements, 
to strengthen negotiations capacity for expanding market access for 
Ecuadorian firms, and to support policy making of COMEXI through, inter 
alia: (i) intensive training courses on specific WTO matters and 
agreements; (ii) a twinning program to develop domestic capacity in WTO 
related matters and other trade issues; (iii) international negotiations 
training; and (iv) simulation workshops.
(b)
Upgrading, and equipping, of MICIP’s and COMEXI’s offices as 
required to implement the Integrated System of Financial and 
Administrative Information, and training of MICIP’s and COMEXI’s staff on 
such system.
(c)
Provision of the technical assistance, training and 
information systems required to carry out a diagnostic assessment of the 
international competitiveness of selected producer groups and to identify 
Page  14
and resolve policy and institutional constraints to outward-oriented 
growth.
(d)
Strengthening of MICIP’s unfair trade practices safeguards 
administration through, inter alia: (i) technical assistance to prepare 
MICIP’s organizational and functional descriptions, individual job 
descriptions and qualifications, and working procedures; (ii) internal 
and external training; (iii) upgrading of facilities and equipment; (iv) 
preparation of an information data base containing information and 
calculations relating to investigations and injury analyses, monitoring 
of specific cases, including cases involving Ecuadorian firms overseas; 
and legislation and case work trends overseas on products of interest to 
Ecuador; and (v) subscription to relevant publications overseas.
2.
Customs Administration Program
(a)
Development and implementation of a program to expand 
eligibility, transparency and efficiency of the duty drawback system for 
direct and indirect exporters.
(b)
Provision of the technical assistance, training and 
equipment, including computers, required to implement the program 
referred to in paragraph (a) above.
(c)
Implementation of an information campaign on the Borrower’s 
duty drawback system.
Part B:
Entrepreneurial Learning and Innovation
1.
(a)
Carrying out of: (i) an information campaign to broaden the 
awareness and interest of Ecuadorian enterprises in making international 
trade linkages; and (ii) an information campaign to broaden the awareness 
of Ecuadorian products abroad.
(b)
Promotion of trade information technology for electronic 
international business data and communications exchanges through the 
INTERNET and private subscription networks including, inter alia: (i) the 
distribution of software packages; and (ii) the installation of a Web 
Site of CORPEI on Ecuadorian exports.
(c)
Carrying out of local and distance learning seminars for 
entrepreneurs and staff of enterprises to learn WTO regulations and 
international business practices.
(d)
Carrying out of an eco-export  program which consists of 
broadening the awareness of the benefits of products with due regard to 
environmental protection and, in particular, oriented to the export 
markets.
2.
Financing of Learning and Innovation Subprojects.
3.
Financing of Grassroots Growth Subprojects.
4.
Contracting of a consulting firm to assist CORPEI in carrying out 
Parts B.2 and B.3 of the Project.
Part C:
Product Quality Program
Page  15
Provision of technical assistance as required:
1.
(a) to promote quality production among local enterprises, and 
control of such quality production by the Borrower’s agencies; and (b) to 
negotiate, with trading countries, agreements for the mutual recognition 
of systems of accreditation of product quality standards;
2.
for the operation of a system of accreditation of laboratory and 
certification services operating in Ecuador following internationally 
recognized criteria;
3.
to upgrade INEN’s and INH’s certification services and 
laboratories; and
4.
for the preparation of a plan for the privatization of  INEN 
Commercial Services.
Part D: 
Audits
Provision of auditing services for purposes of carrying out audits 
under Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of 
Principal
   (Expressed 
in
Date Payment Due
      Dollars)
*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 2003
through March 15, 2015
      875,000
Page  16
_________________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 and September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Except as provided in Part B.2 hereof, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
Page  17
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract procured pursuant to the provisions 
of Part B.1 of this Schedule the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised September 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  18
3.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Commercial Practices
Services to assist in carrying out Subprojects under Parts B.2 and 
B.3 of the Project and estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent may 
be procured in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the 
Bank.
5.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000, the terms of 
reference shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Page  19
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Section III.  Special Provisions
Part A:
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any 
other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the 
following provisions shall govern all procurement of goods referred to in 
Part B.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Bids shall be submitted in one single envelope, and the name of 
each bidder and the total amount of each bid, as well as any alternative 
proposals, if they have been requested or permitted, shall be read aloud 
when opened.
2.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to have a local 
representative for purposes of submitting bids.
3.
Foreign bidders shall be permitted to have their financial solvency 
certified by a foreign bank acceptable to the procuring party without 
recertification by any Ecuadorian bank or other Ecuadorian person or 
entity.
4.
Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign sureties 
approved by the procuring party shall be admissible without 
recertification or other participation by any Ecuadorian bank or other 
Ecuadorian person or entity.
5.
Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods or provider of 
services shall not be required to be counter-guaranteed by such supplier 
or provider in whole or in part. This shall not prevent the procuring 
party from obtaining other performance warranties from such suppliers or 
providers.
Part B:
In addition to and without limitation or restriction to any 
other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Consultants 
Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all employment of 
consultants referred to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered 
as a condition of participation in the selection process.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or 
indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any consulting 
contracts to any local firm or person.
3.
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to 
provide services, to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum capital 
different from that required for Ecuadorian firms.
4.
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be 
required to pay fees to the Ecuadorian Consultants’ Association that are 
different from those required for Ecuadorian consultants.
5.
No consultant shall, at the time he or she is carrying out his or 
her contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil service office or 
any other position in an agency of the Borrower or any Ecuadorian public 
sector entity, nor shall such consultant have any right to re-entry into 
any such office or position upon the conclusion of his or her consulting 
Page  20
services.
Section IV.   Internal Approvals
1.
With respect to the procurement of goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, any approval of bidding documents and contracts 
required under the laws of the Borrower shall be given only by the 
Project Technical Support Unit.
2.
With respect to the employment of consultants, any approval of 
contracts or of consultant selection processes required under the laws of 
the Borrower, shall be given only by the Project Technical Support Unit.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through 
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to 
$2,000,000
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $700,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the amount of $2,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively 
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do 
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests 
for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
Page  21
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, 
the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this 
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits 
into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article 
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the 
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless 
Page  22
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to 
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
