                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 27376

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (SCL-43460 TF-29533 PPFB-P2860 PPFB-P2861)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$21 MILLION

                                         TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                               ECUADOR

                                                FOR AN

                      INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND INTEGRATION PROJECT




                                           December 10, 2003




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective July 1, 2003)

                          Currency Unit = US DOLLARS

                                FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 -     December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
COMEXI     Foreign Trade Council
CORPEI     Export and Investment Promotion Corporation
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IADB       Inter-American Development Bank
INEN       Ecuador National Institute of Standards
IPHNI      Izquieta Perez National Institute of Hygiene
LCR        Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LEXI       1997 Foreign Trade and Investment Law
MICIP      Ministry of Trade, Industry and Fishing
MOSTA      Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
NGO        Non-governmental Organization
PERTAL     Privatization Technical Assistance Loan
SME        Small and Medium Scale Enterprise
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
TOR        Terms of Reference
TSU        Technical Support Unit
WTO        World Trade Organization




                         Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                      Country Director       Marcelo Guigale
                        Sector Director      Danny Leipziger
      Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         James C. Hanna

                                          ECUADOR
              INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND INTEGRATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. Footnotes                                                               34

Project ID: P040106                                                  Project Name: Ecuador International Trade and
                                                                     Integration Project
Team Leader: James C. Hanna                                          TL Unit: PA9SS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 10, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: Ecuador International Trade and Integration              L/C/TF Number: SCL-43460; TF-29533;
                            Project                                                                  PPFB-P2860;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P2861
   Country/Department: ECUADOR                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (72%); Other domestic and
                            international trade (28%)
                  Theme: Legal institutions for a market economy (P); Regulation and
                            competition policy (P); Trade facilitation and market access (P);
                            Export development and competitiveness (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/01/1995                                     Effective: 09/15/1998                01/21/1999
     Appraisal: 01/15/1998                                         MTR: 07/31/2000                  07/31/2000
      Approval: 06/11/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR/MIN OF TRADE; GOVERNMENT OF
                                           ECUADOR/INDUSTRY & FISHING
                      Other Partners:      Export and Investment Promotion Corporation (CORPEI)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              S. Javed Burki
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Andres Solimano
Sector Manager:                 Susan G. Goldmark                              Krishna Challa
Team Leader at ICR:             James C. Hanna
ICR Primary Author:             James C. Hanna


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The development objective of the International Trade and Integration Project (ITIP) was to
promote increased socio-economic growth of the Ecuadorian economy through international
trade development and integration with the global economy. The key performance indicators for
this objective were defined as (a) WTO-consistent trade policies and new trade agreements, and
(b) growth in exporters and export partner linkages, export product and market diversification,
product value and investment. This approach was based upon research findings of the Bank and
others demonstrating that international trade acts as a conduit to best practice knowledge, skills
and technologies and, in turn, promotes economic growth particularly through productivity
improvements. The strategic focus of the Project was, first, on promoting second-generation
reforms of trade-related regulations and public institutions in Ecuador to improve the business
environment for export development and, second, to encourage at the firm level broader and
deeper integration with export markets.

Relevance--The project was substantially relevant to the country's development needs. At an
overall level, Ecuador's long-term GDP growth (1985-95) had averaged a slim 1.2% per capita.
Total GNFS exports/GDP had been stagnant between 1990-97, while GNFS imports had risen
from 31.8% to 34.2% of GDP, increasing the trade deficit and balance of payments vulnerability.
And the share of primary products in total exports (largely petroleum, bananas, shrimp, and
coffee) had remained a high 84% in 1997, reflecting a prior 10-year trend in which average
manufacturing export growth actually declined. At the policy level, the Project was sequenced to
follow liberalization of Ecuador's basic trade regime in the early 1990s and the country's entrance
in 1996 to the World Trade Organization (WTO) which required Ecuador to modernize the
country's trade management institutions.       At the firm level, only a few Ecuadorian firms
accounted for most export knowledge and experience, little investment was underway to improve
international competitiveness, and overseas buyer relationships and exporter backward links to the
local economy were few.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The Project consisted of three substantive components: (a) international trade management and
market access, (b) entrepreneurial learning and innovation in smaller firms, and (c) product and
process quality. It also financed a technical support unit in the Government institution responsible
for Project execution, the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Finance (MICIP), and refinanced a
Bank Project Preparation Facility (please see Table 1 and Annex 2).




                                                - 2 -

                 Table 1 ­ Project Components and Bank Loan Expenditures, Expected and Actual (US$ million)

                           Component                      Appraisal Estimate          Actual             % of Appraisal
  1 Modernize the state's trade management                       5.5                   6.0                 106.3%
  2 Catalyze entrepreneurial learning & innovation              11.5                   11.1                 96.4%
  3 Upgrade product quality                                      2.8                   1.8                  65.7%
  4 PPF ref., project management, auditing & evaluation          1.1                   1.7                 154.4%

     Total                                                      21.0                   20.6                 98.0%


(a) The lead Project component sought to help the Government to modernize the state's
international trade management and increase market access by (i) broadening participation in
Ecuador's trade policy-making and improving MICIP's trade policy formulation and management
capacity. This included several specific policy and institutional steps related to technical barriers
to trade, unfair trade practices, duty drawback, and international trade negotiations; (ii)
strengthening Ecuador's export promotion capacity via establishment of a new public-private
export promotion organization, the Export and Investment Promotion Corporation (CORPEI);
and (iii) enabling MICIP, together with the private sector, to diagnose constraints and prepare
strategic options to address public sector impediments to outward-oriented firm-level
international competitiveness.

(b) In parallel, the second component aimed to catalyze entrepreneurial learning and innovation
among smaller firms by (i) undertaking public campaigns and training programs to build a
broader awareness of and know-how to exploit the unique benefits of outward-oriented growth;
(ii) co-financing the execution of firm-level pre-competitive development activities (e.g., market
research, product adaptation, quality certification) contained in international competitiveness
plans aimed to generate new exporting capacity and market linkages with potential business
partners; and (iii) co-financing a pilot initiative to support the provision by qualified NGO of
technical extension services at the community level aimed to help low-income microbusinesses to
improve basic business practices, product designs and quality, and build indirect and direct export
links with potential business partners.

(c) The third component aimed to upgrade product and process quality by (i) promoting quality
awareness and upgrading among smaller firms, (ii) establishing an internationally recognized
accreditation system and mutual recognition agreements with trading partners, (iii) upgrading
public certification services and laboratories, and (iv) bringing to the point of sale part of the
national standards agency (INEN).

3.4 Revised Components:

The Project's components were not revised during implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at Entry is considered satisfactory. The Project was consistent with the CAS and was
substantially relevant to the country's development needs, as noted in Section 3.1. It was also
mutually supportive of other Bank projects: in particular, the Modernization of the State Project
(MOSTA), which focused in part on better integration of financial and administrative management



                                                            - 3 -

between core and sector ministries of the Government. From the Project identification stage,
work was based upon tripartite dialogue and consensus-building between MICIP, private sector
domestic and export business associations, and the Bank.

Project preparation and design took an integrated approach to the issues identified, working both
on a range of key second-generation public sector regulatory reforms and institutional
strengthening, and private sector firm-level support to help build export development capacity on
the ground. Analytical work, ranging from a strategic assessment of the export sector1to specific
analyses of policy constraints, institutional evaluations and skills needs, enhanced the dialogue and
yielded detailed component designs.        Much of the Project's regulatory change agenda was
adopted prior to Board presentation of the Bank's loan, showing further commitment to Project
objectives and implementation. Project outputs and component activities were well articulated
and performance indicators reasonably clearly defined. Project outcomes indicators, while clear in
their objectives, could have been better specified with quantitative performance indicators.

As a result of considerable Project preparation work, the Project's technical support unit was well
underway at Project start-up and had gained appreciable experience in program management,
procurement and financial management; including via a number of Bank-sponsored seminars in
Ecuador on Bank norms and procedures for financial management, procurement and
disbursements.    Notwithstanding this, Project effectiveness was delayed until January 1999
following Board loan approval in June 1998 due to delays in Ecuador of legal reviews of the Loan
Agreement and Subsidiary Agreement with CORPEI. These delays resulted from a request by
CORPEI through the Government to increase the share of reimbursements for Learning and
Innovation Fund subprojects from 30% to 50% of total subproject costs. The Bank, while having
accepted at negotiations the lower 30% disbursement share, had strongly cautioned that this level
of financing might lead to inordinately slow or reduced implementation and to inadequate
commitment on the part of beneficiaries.          Following board approval, but prior to project
effectiveness and startup, CORPEI and the Government changed their position, and requested
that a higher reimbursement share be adopted. The introduction of this change, via an amendment
contributed to delayed project effectiveness.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the Project was satisfactory. The outcome of two of the Project's three
components rated as satisfactory, while the component to upgrade product and process quality is
rated as marginally satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Modernize the state's trade management capacity and increase market access. This
component is rated as satisfactory given that most regulatory reforms were achieved and
maintained without material backsliding, and that institution-building work has in the main yielded
at least the outputs anticipated.

Basic trade institutional framework reforms are rated as satisfactory. Project preparation work
was an important contributor to the analytical underpinnings, drafting and adoption of the legal


                                                  - 4 -

framework governing trade policy management that were codified in the 1997 Foreign Trade and
Investment Law (LEXI) adopted by Congress.              The law provided legal reinforcement to
Ecuador's recent WTO commitments and defined a specific new institutional framework for
international trade consisting of (i) a Foreign Trade and Investment Council (COMEXI), created
as a mechanism for inter-institutional coordination and independent trade policy decision-making;
(ii) reorganization of MICIP to streamline and consolidate trade policy formulation and execution;
and (iii) creation of the Export and Investment Promotion Corporation (CORPEI) to decentralize
through a private-public partnership the provision of export development support services.

The establishment of COMEXI is rated as marginally satisfactory. It aimed to reshape Ecuador's
institutional structure for trade policy decision-making, which at that time was highly fragmented
among various ministries, suffered from poor coordination within the Government, and had
minimal links with the private sector needs. COMEXI integrated the Ministry of Finance, the
main production ministries of the Government for agriculture, industry and tourism, and
incorporated members from the major private sector associations (the Federation of Exporters,
Federation of Chambers of Industry, Federation of the Chambers of Commerce, Federation of
Chambers of Agriculture, and a representative of agro-business exporters). Since its creation,
COMEXI has served a valuable function of providing a forum for public-private debate on trade
policy and has adopted more than 190 resolutions on subjects including trade tariffs, prior
licensing, technical norms and unfair trade practices.         At the same time, its institutional
development remains formative and, to become the instrument envisioned, will require more
technical support from MICIP and better management to overcome the strong individual interests
of its members.

The reorganization of MICIP is rated as satisfactory. The core accomplishments of this reform
were to (a) consolidate and restructure 4 sub-secretariats of MICIP for international trade,
industry, micro and small business and fishing resources, and (b) reduce total MICIP staffing by
more than 50% from about 400 to 190 staff. In addition, it supported the close collaboration with
the Bank-financed MOSTA Program of CONAM by adopting the Integrated System of Financial
and Administrative Information, yielding more integrated internal program planning, budgeting,
accounting within the Ministry in Quito and its Regional Offices, as well as with the Ministry of
Economy and Finance.          The Project     upgraded the Ministry's telephone and information
technology equipment, office facilities, Internet services, and networking to integrate MICIP's
offices in Ecuador and business associations.         It provided English language training to 79
management staff members of MICIP under the academic leadership of The British Council.
Also, to begin to increase MICIP's capacity to negotiate international trade agreements, the
Project supported training by Georgetown University in Ecuador for 30 leading Government and
private sector representatives and completed a strategic diagnostic and proposal to improve the
structure, approach and skills employed by Ecuador in such negotiations.

Reducing technical barriers to trade is rated as satisfactory. Prior to the ITIP, the national
standards body (INEN) had produced about 2000 standards, of which more than 80% were
compulsory. This contrasted with usually 5-10% in other Latin American countries and elsewhere
in North America and Western Europe, where most standards are voluntary and comply with the
Technical Barriers to Trade Agreement of the WTO to ensure that they do not become
unnecessary obstacles to trade. Under the Project, the Government moved 1,047 mandatory


                                                 - 5 -

standards of INEN to optional status, thereby reduced drastically the share of mandatory
standards to 25% of total standards. The Government also complied with a condition of loan
disbursement for the quality program by adopting the Code of Good Practice for the Preparation,
Adoption and Application of Standards of the WTO Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade.
In an evaluation of mandatory standards in effect in 2003, it was found that some backsliding had
occurred as mandatory standards stood at 38% of total standards.    2  In response, the Government
agreed under the Bank's Fiscal Consolidation and Competitiveness Adjustment Loan to reduce
mandatory norms by at least 10% of the total by the end of 2003 and by at least the same amount
in 2004; thereafter to eliminate all standards not compatible with the WTO Code.

Improving unfair trade practices policy is rated as satisfactory. The Project aimed to support (i)
amendments to Government regulations to ensure adequate consideration of domestic consumers
interests in safeguards, antidumping and countervailing duty mechanisms; and (ii) institutional
development within MICIP's then newly established Unfair Trade Practices Division to undertake
WTO-consistent responsibilities for investigation, execution of provisional measures and public
notification. Accordingly, the Government adopted in 2000 a decree modifying existing safeguard
measures against unfair trade practices that guaranteed, among other things, procedures to ensure
adequate consideration of domestic consumers in the investigation, calculation of injury,
execution of provisional measures, and public notice. The Project also delivered communications
and computing equipment and on-the-job training to MICIP staff.                  Staff also served
apprenticeships with agencies experienced with the administration of such instruments, including
the Andean Community of Nations (CAN); INDECOPI in Peru, and the Commission on
Antidumping and Subsidies of Venezuela (CASS). WTO officials also held a seminar on WTO
trade rules on 26-30 June 2002 funded by the ITIP.

An important part of the Directorate's work has been to advise and to provide technical support
to companies or industry groups that have felt themselves affected by unfair trade practices or by
unusual surges of imports. In several instances, according to Project evaluation work,3 the
industry or enterprise, after learning of the details of the procedures that an investigation would
involve and the obligation on the petitioner to provide extensive and verifiable information, did
not proceed to the point of requesting the opening of an investigation. At the same time,
investigations by the Division have led to decisions by COMEXI to impose safeguard measures in
two cases: ceramic ware, for which safeguards were imposed for one year on imports from
Colombia and Peru; and table salt, though in this instance the Secretariat of the Andean
Community rejected the measure.

Increasing duty drawback efficiency is rated as marginally satisfactory.               The Project
subcomponent aimed to support amendments to regulations and institutional performance
improvements in the Duty Drawback Division of Customs so as to substantially expand access to
direct and indirect export firms and reduce processing of payments turnaround time from 6-12
months to under 15 days. Action on this component was delayed given pending fundamental
reforms in customs administration that were eventually adopted in the Customs Organic Law of
September 2000. A decree was passed thereafter which laid out the process for streamlining duty
drawback refunds of taxes paid on imported goods incorporated into export products.              It
provided for either (i) an initial audit of the exporter followed by either refunds based upon



                                                 - 6 -

coefficients relating indirect taxes to inputs, or (ii) an automatic refund supported by an exporter
guarantee recurrently of up to five percent (5%) of the FOB value exported. A "one stop
window" was also established in Guayaquil and Quito where businesses could claim tax refunds.
The automation and facilitation achieved has, according to Project evaluation work. reduced  4


refund times to between 30-90 days and raised the number of claims processed from a few score
per year prior to the reform to a rate of 600-1,000 per year. However, submissions are being
made principally by larger firms given that verification procedures have increased considerably
and access to the system remains difficult for Ecuador many smaller existing and potential
exporters.

The creation of CORPEI is rated as satisfactory. The creation of CORPEI, which enabled
majority private sector-management of Ecuador's export promotion, was motivated by
international research findings showing that decentralization from core government ministries and
partial privatization of export development support services is a more effective means of
promoting outward-oriented growth. The Project supported the business planning phase of the
establishment of CORPEI and its implementation of the Project's entrepreneurial learning and
innovation programs, but did not provide operational support.

Since 1999, CORPEI has expanded the supply of export support services and removed much of
such responsibilities from the Government. As advocated during Project preparation, CORPEI
has employed the demand-based entrepreneurial learning and innovation programs of the Project
as its centerpiece. It also offers commercial information services through Information Centers in
Guayaquil, Ambato, Cuenca, Loja, Machala, Manta and Riobamba. A website was established to
promote exportable products of Ecuador (www.corpei.org) which receives substantial attention
(about 140,000 hits per month) and a second website             (www.ecuadorexporta.org) provides
market intelligence for Ecuadorian exporters.          It offers    advisory services to firms and
associations to help identify product market niches, develop export skills and new products;
average demand is about 100 clients at any one time.            CORPEI also provides training on
commercial opportunities in export markets and seminars that expose firms to business interests
visiting Ecuador, which in 2002 were attended by nearly 700 participants.

The international competitiveness diagnostic work is rated as satisfactory. The purpose of
including this activity in the Project was to enable MICIP with private sector partners to (i)
benchmark levels of international competitiveness in a number of Ecuador's productive clusters,
(ii) examine constraints posed by public policies and institutions, and (iii) prepare strategic options
to address them and promote higher outward-oriented growth. MICIP did so by undertaking
cluster diagnostics on a variety of sectors, including mangos, tourism, textiles and garment,
fisheries and artisan products, leather and ceramics. MICIP ensured that these initiatives went
beyond Ecuador's main economic concentrations of Guayaquil and Quito to reach Manta, Cuenca
and other areas to build regional content and commitment from private sector stakeholders
nationwide.

This work not only produced the strategic visions anticipated, but went beyond Project
expectations to promote "International Competitiveness" as a development thematic in Ecuador.
This took tangible form early in 2000 as "Ecuador Compite" and led to establishment of a national
public-private Competitiveness Council. While the action agenda of Ecuador Compite needs


                                                 - 7 -

more focusing and further institutional development work to make the Council really effective,
this initial work has fundamentally (i) increased public sensitivity to Ecuador's competitiveness
issues; and (ii) structured a means of increasing the participation of firms, associations and civil
society in seeking ways and means of increasing national competitiveness.

(b) Catalyze entrepreneurial learning and innovation in smaller firms. This component is
rated satisfactory given the strong outreach and innovation of the Project's export awareness and
training initiatives, the positive changes in export capacity indicators of participants in the
Learning and Innovation Fund, and learning achieved from the Grassroots Growth Fund on how
to help promote export development among microbusiness.

The export culture program is rated as satisfactory. This subcomponent was designed to help
expand through awareness and training programs Ecuador's export "culture", meaning the
understanding of the particular benefits of outward-oriented growth policies and the acquisition of
export know-how and tools. By its completion, the program covered 22 provinces of the country
through six separate modules and involved the participation of more than 4,000 business people.
Organizational support was provided by Fundacion Ecuador and many of the modules were
carried out by the School of Business at the Escuela Politecnica del Litoral (ESPOL) and the
Universidad San Francisco de Quito.

The centerpiece of the program was a set of workshops providing training for entry level
exporting known as "The ABCs of International Trade", which drew 1,409 participants in 18
separate events. Two more advanced seminar programs were developed and attended by a total
of 1,333 business people in 15 cities around Ecuador on "Foreign Commerce for Managers", and
"Foreign Commerce for Small Business".         An adaptation of the ABCs program was given to
disadvantages business groups of Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian peoples to help them build
links to the local export community. To accomplish this, professors of the Universidad San
Francisco de Quito created "virtual classrooms" (aulas virtuales) financed by the Project in the
cities of Quito, Guayaquil, Riobamba, Manta, Portoviejo, Machala and Latacuga. They trained 25
leaders of these groups, who subsequently became facilitators for courses transmitted by satellite
and attended by 196 participants.      This approach, according the Ecuadorian Federation of
Indigenous Peoples (FEI), yielded good participation rates at a low per person training cost. The
basic export courses were further adapted in 2002 following adoption by Congress of Ecuador's
e-commerce law when it became clear that there was a need for training the Ecuadorian business
community to understand the potential of e-business for export development. "Techniques to
Negotiate by Internet" was provided to 432 business people in 16 Ecuadorian cities.        Training
was also provided under an experimental "Support to Ecuadorian Emigrants" program to 210
small businesses in Ecuador and 90 Ecuadorian businesses in Spain on basic export-import
techniques to try to build new trade bridges between local and external groups of Ecuadorians.

In exit surveys and follow-up interviews with participants of several of these programs,582% of
participants expressed the highest level of satisfaction ("Optimo") with the ABCs course and
nearly all stated that they would return for future events.      Participation by Indigenous and
Afro-Ecuadorian groups also registered a high satisfaction rate (87%) with the training in virtual
classrooms. Four out of five considered that the training had helped them to introduce or



                                                - 8 -

accelerate changes in their businesses, particularly in the area of staff training, productivity
improvements and building an "export culture".           However, the majority also stated that
investment and working capital finance, other training and information still limited their growth.

The Learning and Innovation Fund (LIF) is rated as satisfactory. It was designed to facilitate
and demonstrate to policy-makers and other firms that investments in pre-competitive activities
increase export capacity and may well result in new export market penetration, diversification of
export products, and/or diversification of markets. CORPEI was the executing agency for the
LIF and was supported by an international management contractor with substantial experience
operating such a fund, the Trade Development Institute of Ireland, which was selected under
competitive bidding. The contractor included a training component for CORPEI staff which
enabled a portion of the international team to be replaced in year 2 by CORPEI staff and CORPEI
to assume in year 3 full responsibility for execution with a minimum of TDI support.

Thanks to good promotion, regional access and sound core management, the LIF attracted a very
high level of demand and fully committed and disbursed over 2001-2003 its US$7.0 million
allocation (Bank loan portion) to 730 Ecuadorian firms for 812 export development plans,6
exceeding the original target of 500 firms by 46%. Subprojects were self-selected by participating
firms with the review and approval of the LIF Committee. The average subproject grant was
US$15,300, one-half of the total average subproject cost of US$30,600. Only 18% of the
number of grants was valued between US$30,000 and the maximum of US$50,000 per firm.
About 63% of the business and export processes supported were focused on upstream
improvements of competitiveness: staff know-how and training (27%), market development
(15%), operational productivity and product quality processes (11%), and product redesign and
engineering (10%). The remaining 37% focused on international market development (fairs and
other promotion). Demand by sector was broadly distributed and primarily involved industries
and services producing flowers, wood products, information technology, fishing, fruits, ceramics,
tourism, clothing, music and many other product categories. Geographically, entrepreneurs in 19
of Ecuador's 22 provinces participated, led by Guayas, Pichincha, Azuay, Manabi, and Cotopaxi;
overall distribution was consistent with the country's production structure.

By firm size, 51% of the grant value of subprojects went to micro firms with less than US$0.3
million in sales per year; another 20% went to firms with less than US$1 million in sales. The
aggregate micro, small and medium size (US$1-3 million in sales) participation accounted for
90.6% of the total number of grants and 84.3% of the total grant value. The remainder went to
larger firms (15.7% by grant value). "Leakage" to large firms was halted after the first 6-month
review of implementation progress, when it became clear that the original design parameter
intended to target micro and SMEs, limiting total matching funds per firm to US$50,000, was
inadequate---the intention had been to try to avoid setting arbitrary limits by firm employment or
sales size. The LIF then set a limit on access to firms having less than US$3 million in sales.

The results of the LIF were assessed in five different stages over 2001-20027 with a representative
sample of 300 businesses representing 51% of the number of beneficiary firms and 60.5% of total
grant value, providing a mean 95% level of reliability. The evaluation was executed through visits
to each firm, structured interviews with its management, and the use of customized software to



                                                 - 9 -

process and analyze data. The primary purpose of the assessments was to capture near-term
effects on export-related business strategy, skills, practices, partnerships and capacity ("export
culture") of subprojects carried out in 2000 and 2001; secondarily, to illustrate the likely
dimension of economic impact. At least half of the firms on which assessments were done were in
the process of completing subproject implementation; the remainder was done about 6 months
after subproject completion. Thus, economic impact estimates tend to reflect only early results of
mainly commercial promotion activities undertaken for existing products and not the more
fundamental work for longer-term repositioning of the firm for export development.
Furthermore, the economic calculations do not attempt to factor in capital investment that may
have sprung from a subproject nor production inputs or market conditions, which play an
important role in the economic outcomes.

The assessment found that, overall, 81% of participating firms felt better prepared to export and
83% believed that the Program had increased the export competitiveness of the firm. The
subproject development led 79% of participants to adopt strategic export plans which, in 65% of
cases, were translated into operational practices reflected in company manuals. Ten percent of
firms had established a unit or person responsible for the firm's export business. About 51% of
firms stated that they had developed new strategic alliances among national and international
suppliers, national indirect or direct exporter links, and/or international distributors. Between
57% and 66% of firms introduced technological innovations through the purchase of hardware,
software and technical services resulting in 63% of firms with web-based promotion systems and
14% undertaking online transactions. About 71% of firms also registered that these systems gave
them access to up-to-date information on market trends, prices, competitors and quality
requirements. All of these indicators were aggregated into an "export culture rating", which
reflects that 62% of participants achieved a high cultural level through the LIF, 23% achieved a
middle level and 15% remained at a low level.

The illustrative economic calculations for impact within the first year of completion of subprojects
also suggest positive impact of the LIF. Total sales by micro, small and medium sized business
together grew by 27% (US$34 million); of this, US$27 million were exports or 36% higher than
the export base year. Large firms' sales expanded by 9% and exports contracted by-4%. Export
market diversification for Ecuador was advanced as 37% of the sample (111 firms) reported that
they had found in the aggregate 10 new country destinations for their products and 211 firms
(70%) reported having found new buyers for their products (in both existing and new country
destinations). Some 131 firms (44%) reported having introduced new products into export
market and 151 firms (50%) indicated that their products had greater aggregate value; 172 firms
(46%) considered that they had improved the quality of the product they offer. LIF participants
in the firms sampled also reported a 22.1% increase (3,293 new jobs) among MSMEs over
1999-2001; large firms reported an increase of 3,512, a 23.7% gain. The average grant cost per
job was US$1,321. The majority of those hired were laborers and temporary day laborers; the
remainder similarly split between technical and administrative personnel translates into an
additional salary mass of about US$10.6 million paid between 2000 and 2001.

The Grassroots Growth Fund (GGF) is rated as marginally satisfactory. This pilot initiative,
developed in conjunction with the Department of Microbusinesses and Artisans of MICIP, was
based on the LIF and adapted to focus on low-income microbusiness. It aimed to promote


                                               - 10 -

access to business development services using a network of existing NGOs at the community level
to work with groups of microbusinesses to help strengthen basic business practices, develop an
orientation toward export markets, and generate direct or (more likely) indirect exporter linkages.
Participation totaled approximately 3,900 microbusinesses associating in 106 projects. About
40% of beneficiaries were women and 56% of all beneficiaries were in rural areas across 21
provinces, with the highest concentrations in Guayas, Manabi, Chimborazo, Canar and
Sucumbios.      The sectors involved were cereals, agro-industry, artisanal sectors (together
accounting for 49% of total grants) and 29 others. Total GGF financing amounted to $2.9 million
(Bank loan portion) and a like amount came mostly from participating NGOs.

The subprojects were implemented by 33 NGOs, business associations and universities.
Fundación Eugenio Espejo, Fondo Ecuatoriano Canadiense de Desarrollo, Fundes, Universidad
del Pacifico, Fundación Huancavilca and Camara de Industrias Cuenca intermediated a total of
70% of the GGF. The majority (59.5%) of subproject work involved technical and managerial
enterprise training and capacity building. In excess of 300 workshops and courses were given in
areas such as technical production (e.g., organic production systems, fertilizer and plant nutrition,
environmental management, etc.), other operational productivity improvements, financial
management, laboratory testing and other quality techniques, sales and marketing and project
management.      Other activities included product promotion (13%), market research and
development (17%) and product development (5%).

An evaluation of 35 subprojects supported by the GGF8 found that 22 (63%) actually undertook
exports which in 2002 totaled US$2.7 million, 57% above the US$1.7 million in the baseline year
of 2000. Fourteen of these subprojects produced new products for export. The assessment also
found that at least half of the microbusinesses reported improvements in skills, production, and
management (please see Figure 1).

                                                                     Figure 1

             100                                          GrassrootsGrowth Fund
                                                Non-FinancialBenefits, 2001-2002
              90          84 %
                                                  75%
              80                                                          75%

              70                                                                                6 3%
                                                                                                                        59%
              60

              50

              40

              30

              20

              10

               0
                  mpro ved worker skills
                  I                      Reduced prod uction time  Increased capacity  Reduced prod uction cost s Improved informat ion
                                                                       utilization                                     systems


The evaluation determined that 24% of those subprojects were highly successful, 67% met their
targets and 9% were unsatisfactory. The evaluation further concluded that much of the results
were influenced by the quality of the sponsor. While a number of organizations performed well,
others appeared to be overstretched by commitments to too many projects and under-supported
by the technical skills required to manage projects well. The evaluation found a number of
instances in which subproject development and impact would have been improved by being more



                                                                          - 11 -

client demand driven, including by involving them more in subproject design and budgeting.
Impact would also have been improved by focusing on smaller groups of microbusinesses.
Together, this would have tended to better support the self-reliant development of needed skills
and experience of the microbusiness in interacting with the external markets.

 (c) Upgrade product and process quality. This component is rated marginally satisfactory.
Start-up was delayed approximately 15 months due principally to debates in Congress over the
various draft versions of a quality framework law.             Facing continuing uncertainty, the
Government decided with the Bank's support to launch the system by passage of a decree in May
2000, which created the Ecuadorian System of Metrology, Standardization, Accreditation and
Certification (MNAC) and under MICIP's authority and budget. It also designated MICIP as the
official Accreditation Organization and the Ecuadorian Institute of Standardization (INEN) as the
official Standardization Organization. The Decree also incorporated adoption of the Code of
Good Practice for the Preparation, Adoption and Application of Standards of the WTO's
Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade, a condition of loan disbursement for the quality
component.

An evaluation of the institutional development aspects of the component9 indicates that, while
activities go off to a slow start, there has been much progress in accord with project design. At a
regulatory level, one of the MNAC's early achievements was to resolve, together with the
Ministry of Public Health, a major trading bottleneck presented by the sanitary registry systems,
where paperwork would take between 6 months and 2 years. The new Regulation of Registry
and Sanitary Control was approved through an Executive Decree on June 18, 2001 and permitted
the accreditation of public and private laboratories to grant and inform companies of certification
within 30 days. This system has substantially relieved processing delays.

At an institutional level, MNAC has gained membership in key international quality bodies,
including the International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation and Inter-American
Accreditation Cooperation. It has working toward securing formal international recognition for
Ecuador's Accreditation Organization in its collaboration with PTB from Germany, A2LA from
USA and ENAC from Spain. It has accredited 15 laboratories for sanitary and phytosanitary
inspection of food products (to Norm 17025) and 10 environmental laboratories (also to Norm
17025). It begun to build internal capacity to undertake quality certification by having accredited
25 assessors under the Project. Several items remain on the institutional agenda. First is to
ensure that the national lab accreditation system is sustainable and supports mutual recognition by
adopting a calibration system that is accredited to international norms, acquiring certified standard
reference materials and organizing laboratory proficiency testing. Ecuador also need to ensure
that the WTO Enquiry Point reports all Ecuadorian mandatory standards and regulations to WTO
and its member nations, provides the scientific basis for restrictive practices and risk analysis to
justify them; and responds to any complaints about proposed or existing mandatory standards and
regulations. Also, INEN should follow through on the original plan to divest its commercial
quality services for calibration, testing, quality promotion and setting voluntary standards. This
was not done during Project implementation in the absence of a commitment shared by INEN, the
National Quality Council and authorities overseeing privatization in Ecuador.

At the firm level, to build quality awareness and upgrading among smaller firms, a portion of the


                                                 - 12 -

LIF was dedicated to the improvement of product and process quality to underscore its
importance as a critical success factor for international competitiveness and export development.
A total of US$0.6 million in matching funds was provided to 151 beneficiary firms in 12 of
Ecuador's 22 provinces. Firms received on average US$4,851 to cover total quality subproject
cost averaging US$9,700; distribution across sectors was not heavily concentrated, though
chemical, wood manufacturing and floricultural industries accounted for 28% of total grant
funding. Funds were used to acquire new knowledge about and adopt quality standards, secure
quality certification, obtain advice to shift business practices to more client-centered operations,
standardize products and components, change the organizational and teamwork culture, and
involve workers more directly in the improvement process. New certifications were acquired by
109 businesses under ISO norms for process, products and auditing quality (including 68 to ISO
9000, 10 to HACCP, 14 to green seal and/or organic and 14 to ISM Code), 40% more than at the
outset of the Project. Additional certifications were secured under the SmartVoyager certification
process undertaken with 34 tour boat operators in the Galapagos to help them adopt management
practices that would both address environmental and conservation challenges facing the islands'
fragile ecosystems as well as support local economic development.10

An evaluation of a representative sample of 32 subprojects representing 21% of the number and
26% of the grant value of this initiative11 demonstrated that it met expectations. About 75% of
participants considered that obtaining a quality certification would improve the probability for
success in export market initiatives. About 90% considered that the program had helped them
strengthen overall business management. And 97% of firms interviewed introduced innovation
and work process improvements as a result of their subproject that they felt had increased
efficiency and reduced costs. Ten participants (31% of the total and 38% of the 26 for which
statistics were available) reported having produced the same product at lower costs of between
­3% and ­15% (the average was -8%). 87% signaled that their subprojects had improved client
acceptance of their products, and 69% had developed an explicit business management strategy as
a part of the subproject.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Return calculations are not applicable to the regulatory reform and institutional changes, and causality and
ERR calculations for the entrepreneurial learning and innovation and quality upgrading activities cannot be
reliably established.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Return calculations are not applicable to the regulatory reform and institutional changes, and
causality and FRR calculations for the entrepreneurial learning and innovation and quality
upgrading activities cannot be reliably established.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The Project's institutional development impact was modest. The Project began in an institutional
environment of considerable fragmentation in Government responsibilities for trade management
among MICIP, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other ministries.                     Intra-governmental



                                                   - 13 -

coordination was weak and frequently contentious. Consultations with the private sector were
mostly unstructured and informal. The Project sought to improve this situation and achieved
mixed results.

Institutional development progress is reasonably evident in entities with specific operational
responsibilities. The Directorate of Unfair Trade Practices in MICIP, for example, made excellent
progress and now operates the practice with professional competence, following the prescribed
WTO norms of analysis and notification. It satisfactorily provides guidance and information for
enterprises, industry associations and members of the government on unfair trade practice
matters. MICIP has restructured its organization and staffing over the Project implementation
period and improved its communications, administration and financial operations. It has also
boosted modestly its capacity to partner with the private sector to benchmark competitiveness,
assess policy constraints and set strategic directions. In the case of CORPEI, it has successfully
established both a new export development organization and a new tool for entrepreneurial
learning and innovation. An assessment of CORPEI12 based upon discussions with its Board,
management, the private sector and government reflects positive feedback on its services as well
as its efforts in its first years of operation to convey the needs and views of the export community
in various public fora. CORPEI has also managed to internalize the capacity to manage and
deliver in the future the kind of demand-driven support programs executed under the Project. In
its next phase of development, CORPEI needs to broaden the involvement of and focus on
small-scale exporters and domestic firms, to improve the cost effectiveness of local programs and
its overseas representation, and to continuous review program relevance to clients' needs.

In those institutions with more policy-making and coordinative functions, such as COMEXI,
MNAC and the Competitiveness Council, institutional development seems to be relatively
shallow. This stems partly from the fact that they have only recently been established. But it also
appears to be a function of inadequate numbers of skilled technical staff and operational budget to
provide the analytical depth on issues dealt with by these bodies; of inadequate involvement at the
ministerial level to their deliberations; and of lack of prioritization of the economic issues with
which they deal given a variety of political cross-currents.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
While Project implementation and outcomes were apparently not substantially harmed by
international economic conditions, a number of external factors were at the outset of the project
certainly not supportive of it. In 1999, Ecuador and the region experienced a sharp capital
outflow as a result of contagion following crises in Asian and other emerging markets, and
Ecuador's three main exports declined as oil and banana prices collapsed and diseases raved
shrimp production. Ecuador's coastal regions also suffered close to US$3 billion in damages due
to El Nino-related flooding.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The most significant factors influencing the project fundamentally within government control are
associated with political structure. Ecuador has experienced substantial regional rivalry dating



                                                     - 14 -

back to colonial times which has limited the effective power and management abilities of the
central government. Congress has been characterized by an unusually large number of political
parties, enhancing the challenge of effective governance.                            The political environment is also
considerably affected by a history of exclusion of much of the population, which has contributed
to a Gini coefficients of income inequality among the highest in the world and to the major
indigenous uprising of 2000. In terms of the Project, this conflictive situation made more difficult
securing passage of the draft quality law, had a strong hand in the high turnover rate in MICIP
ministers during the implementation period (8 ministers in four years), and most probably blunted
the depth of institutional development of policy-making and coordinative bodies referred to in
Section 4.5 in the absence of more continuity of government leadership.

In addition, the late 1990s marked Ecuador's worst economic crisis in more than a century,
derived not only from external factors but largely from persistently poor fiscal management and
the collapse in the banking system. The government's response in 2000, included dollarization of
the economy, restraints on public expenditure growth and indebtedness, and the progressive
unfreezing of banking deposits. While stressful economic as well as political circumstances
continued, this response as well as increases in international oil prices and significant inflows of
family remittances helped to improve the environment for Project execution. GDP increased by
2.8% in 2000, 5.1% in 2001 and an estimated 3.0% in 2002. The performance of non-traditional
exports over the 1999-2002 period, as shown in Table 2, has similarly shown improvement,
particularly against stagnant or declining trends in banana, shrimp, coffee and cocoa exports, and
increased their presence in Ecuador's export structure from 26% to 29.7% over these three years.



                                Table 2 - Ecuador's Export Trends, 1999-2002 (millions US$)
                                          1999        2000          2001            2002     2002/1999 % total
     Non-traditional exports               1,156        1,183         1,415         1,494         338    58%
     Traditional exports                   3,295        3,745         3,263         3,536         241    42%
     Total exports                         4,451        4,928         4,678         5,030         579   100%
     % non-traditional/total exports       26.0%        24.0%         30.2%            29.7%
     Source: Economic Intelligence Unit



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

One important factor that helped to ensure maintenance of focus on the Project's objectives,
staying power of its components and forward movement of the pace of implementation in the face
of high turnover in leadership and tumultuous economic conditions was the consistency of Project
personnel, as well as their skills and dedication to the Project. Virtually all core management and
technical staff recruited for the project stayed with the Unit throughout the implementation
period. They were extremely important in not only carrying out basic processes of procurement,
finance and administration, but in renewing and integrating the Project with new ministerial and
central government leadership changes. They also had a strong hand in ensuring that the Project
reached beyond the traditional export community with innovative initiatives that incorporated
regions outside the Quito-Guayaquil area and excluded groups.

As regards the entrepreneurial learning and innovation programs, the international management



                                                              - 15 -

contract with an independent and experienced private firm, combined with an explicit training
initiative to help CORPEI progressively take over their management, were important positive
factors for implementation and capacity-building. The contract provided an experienced team of
specialists skilled in small business and export development.                   It also helped to ensure
transparency, independence and impartiality in approval and management of the programs. This
was also backed by independent financial audits of subprojects and independent evaluation of the
substantive performance of subproject by a team of evaluators experienced in business in
Ecuador.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Total Project costs over the implementation period were US$30.5 million, or 71.6% of estimates
at Board presentation of the loan (US$42.6 million). This percentage is due to the fact that, at
negotiations, the share of Bank financing of the LIF program was reduced from the 50% that had
been agreed at appraisal to 30% (see explanation in section 3.5).                 This had the effect of
substantially increasing the expected private sector financing amount and total estimated costs.
As the share was amended to reestablish the 50% share prior to Project startup, adjusted total
initial estimated costs were US$32.0 million and actual costs were 95.3% of this amount. In
addition to the disbursements of the Bank's loan, which totaled US$20.6 million (67.5% of total
Project cost), private sector financing through individual contributions to the two learning and
innovation programs totaled $9.6 million (31.5% of total cost) and government financing totaled
$0.3 million (1% of total cost).

As shown in Table 3, cumulative Project loan disbursements lagged appraisal estimates in the first two
years of implementation due to delays in loan effectiveness and startup of the quality program. Thereafter,
they approximated original estimates. A share of the Bank's loan totaling US$1.0 million (5% of the total)
was reallocated in the course of implementation from the quality program component. An amount of
US$0.4 million (2% of the total loan) was shifted to the modernization of trade management component
and US$0.6 million (3% of the total loan) went to the PPF, Project management, auditing and evaluation
line. This latter increment above appraisal estimates covered mainly the total actual PPF disbursements
through loan signing (+$0.1 million), auditing LIF and GGF subprojects (+$0.1 million), project
component evaluation studies (+$0.1 million), one additional year of project management costs due to the
one-year extension of the Closing Date (+0.2 million), and additional financial management support over
most of the implementation period (+$0.1 million). The remaining US$0.4 million of the Bank loan was
not disbursed, and was cancelled upon the closing of the loan account.


                               Table 3- Cumulative Bank Loan Disbursements
                          Fiscal Year      Appraisal      Actual       Actual /
                                           Estimates     Disburse-    Appraisal
                                           (US$MM)        ments
                                                         (US$MM)
                        FY99                  2.0           1.2          60%
                        FY00                  8.0           6.1          76%
                        FY01                  15.0         13.5          90%
                        FY02                  21.0         18.8          90%
                        FY03 Extension        21.0         19.9          95%
                        5-mo. Grace period    21.0         20.6          98%




                                                      - 16 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall sustainability is assessed as likely. The sustained involvement by the private sector,
CORPEI and the various leaders of MICIP and central government authorities in the
implementation of the Project first suggests continuity in support for the areas supported by the
Project. More concretely, backsliding in the legislative and regulatory changes during Project
implementation took place only in the case of technical barriers to trade and, even then, slippage
was modest. Also, contrary to Project risks identified at the outset, there is no evidence to show
that the unfair trade practices safeguards system put into place under the Project has to date
become an instrument of trade protection. And, notwithstanding the high turnover in MICIP
leadership, the institutional modernization program proceeded largely as planned.             While
Ecuador's private sector certainly have their own stakeholder interests at heart, it is fair to say
that the private producer and trade association constituency is also an important and consistent
force to help sustain and drive further forward improvements in the business environment for
export development. The Government and such groups also have a sound practice of working
together on building international market access through new trade agreements which can be
expected to continue. Given these factors, there is a high probability of sustaining the progress
made under the Project.

The entrepreneurial learning and innovation programs themselves are not intended to be
sustained. While there is certainly strong interest in Ecuador to pursue another round of such
programs, they have well-defined exit policies for the long run to make them temporary
instruments to reduce market failures. At the firm level, these programs can be expected to have
three sustainable effects: they have (i) helped firms to meet the usually high initial export market
entry costs and encouraged a durable commitment to export markets as long as operating costs
are covered; (ii) introduced firms to the benefits of using business development services and
helped firms to recognize their full value so as to no longer need subsidies to motivate their use;
and (iii) encouraged development of a local market of entrepreneurial learning and innovation
support services to complement and compete with those from overseas.

The sustainability of the export culture programs undertaken is less clear. While there is clearly
enthusiasm within MICIP and among private associations, very much including those of
indigenous people, an effort remains needed to find a more permanent home outside of MICIP for
these very innovative programs and their implementation. There is also a critical need to define
and implement a user cost recovery policy that will promote and eventually yield sound
self-financing to sustain them.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
COMEXI, MNAC and the Competitiveness Council core operations will all be supported in 2004
by the Government's budget. The IADB is currently discussing and likely to extend support to
COMEXI and the Competitiveness Council to help meet their program aims. CORPEI has
sustainable funding for its basic operations and has concluded arrangements with the European
Union to mount an initiative similar to the learning and innovation programs it executed under the


                                                  - 17 -

Project. The Bank is now in dialogue with MICIP to define further policy adjustments, how to
support capacity increases for international trade negotiations, and assistance to micro and small
businesses to build competitiveness.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance in lending was satisfactory. It participated in a set of initial dialogues with the
Government and private sector associations to give sound strategic direction to the Project. It
brought to bear cross-country experience based upon its own knowledge and that of practitioners
in other countries. It further supported in-depth work under project preparation at the policy,
regulatory and program levels which resulted in early action on regulatory change and a
well-defined implementation plan.        While project design encompassed a complex array of
components, sound quality at entry was achieved through this preparatory work and reflected in
good loan disbursement rates over the implementation period.

7.2 Supervision:

Bank performance in supervision was satisfactory. Under the delivery phase, the Bank provided
substantial and regular engagement with and technical guidance to MICIP, CORPEI and other
Project stakeholders to facilitate Project implementation and evaluation. Fiduciary responsibilities
were adequately exercised to ensure proper procurement, financial and administrative
management of the Project. There was also substantial continuity in task management, which
facilitated Project quality, a good continuing relationship with stakeholders and maintenance of
institutional memory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower performance in preparation was satisfactory. It invested heavily in participation and
analytical analysis in the Project's design phase. Public and private sector stakeholders, structured
often as mixed project preparation working groups, heavily participated along with local and
international consultants, practitioners and Bank staff. Such participation took the form primarily
of (i) a firm-level survey of 150 exporters and non-exporters to determine key constraints, and
various structured interviews with firms and associations on technical barriers to international
trade, the political economy of second stage trade reform, and existing product quality support
services; (ii) information dissemination, four workshops and exchange visits/study tours on
cross-country experience and international good practice in the organization of government
foreign trade management and successful techniques in increasing export market penetration; (iii)
focus groups with 53 firms to identify key service support needs for entrepreneurial learning and
innovation; and (iv) introduction of experience and new trade opportunities in such areas as the


                                                - 18 -

environment and microbusiness development. This resulted in good Project quality at entry and
early action on the regulatory change agenda as described in Section 3.5

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Distinguishing from MICIP's role as implementing agency (see below), the Government's
performance in providing a supportive environment for Project implementation was unsatisfactory
. While the macroeconomic environment trended upward from the crisis of 1999, it certainly
cannot be characterized as conducive to export development and the achievement of the project
objectives. Most of all, the dislocations in leadership and difficulties with Congress absorbed a
substantial amount of effort on the part of MICIP and the technical support unit to maintain high
level focus and commitment on Project objectives and implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

MICIP's performance in implementing the Project was highly satisfactory. Notwithstanding the
high turnover at the ministerial and subsecretary levels, there was a constant renewal of
commitment to Project objectives and implementation, both within MICIP and across government
agencies and private sector associations. The technical support unit countered the frequent
changes in ministerial leadership with substantial staff constancy. The TSU staff maintained a
strong focus on client needs and interests, and maintained sound links between the public and
private sector Project stakeholders.

CORPEI's performance in implementing the project was satisfactory. The Multiplica survey for
the LIF showed that 81% of the 300 firms surveyed were completely satisfied or satisfied with
CORPEI's performance (14% somewhat satisfied and 5% not satisfied), while 93% believed that
the Program was managed in an entirely transparent manner and 95% believed that absolute
honesty prevailed. 82% secured a response to their inquiries within 1-3 days and 90% considered
their Program account officer to be either very efficient or efficient. Regarding the GGF, while
the evaluation showed positive results of a number of subprojects and a number of lessons learned
in design of such assistance, CORPEI could have been much more active to make adjustments in
subproject design and more closely supervise subproject implementation that would have been
likely to improve the outcome.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Ensure leveraging and mutual support between investment and adjustment lending. The use of
both vehicles to maintain trade reform momentum has shown to be effective in the ITIP and the
Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive Growth Adjustment Loan. The backsliding in the original
reforms achieved under the former operation, which substantially reduced technical barriers to
trade, was stemmed and reversed by the latter. In addition, the adjustment loan (approved on
April 28, 2003) further provides for COMEXI to unify tariff categories, reduce import licensing,
develop a comprehensive strategy compatible with WTO accords, and present to Congress a law



                                               - 19 -

providing full legislative support to the MNAC quality system. This also helps to ensure that the
benefits under the ITIP are sustained.

Ensure early private sector participation in project design. Very active involvement of private
sector stakeholders in the design of regulatory reforms and new institutional arrangements is
essential and can provide strong continuity to maintain Project objectives and implementation
momentum in the midst of high turnover at government levels.

Provide for explicit program outreach to regions and excluded groups. Very conscious efforts
are needed (and were exercised by MICIP) to ensure adequate access of regions and businesses
outside the main economic poles of the country. MICIP led the effort to ensure that regional
offices were set up for the entrepreneurial learning and innovation programs, that distance
learning systems were established to reach indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian communities, and that
cluster analyses involved a variety of economic regions. This definitely had a positive effect on
Project implementation and outcomes.

Enforce regulatory reforms with stronger institutional support. There has been considerable
value under the Project of adopting changes in the legislative and regulatory framework for
international trade.    However, the Project has demonstrated that these are necessary but
insufficient conditions for improvements in the business environment.             Very substantial
investments are also needed for institutional implementation and enforcement of new regulations.
For example, notwithstanding a WTO-based good code of practices for establishing voluntary and
mandatory technical standards, slippage takes place without solid institutional attention and
support to enforce such regulations. The relatively limited technical and financial resourcing of
MNAC bears some responsibility for this and need to be corrected in their next phase of its
development.

Ensure regulatory reforms benefit smaller firms. While regulatory reforms may have substantial
positive impact on large firms, care is needed to ensure that the design of such reforms also
explicitly benefits smaller firms. In the case of the duty drawback reforms, this does not appear to
have been the case. The one-stop window was setup only in Guayaquil and Quito and the
procedural burden of the system actually increased with the imposition of verification procedures.
This has unfortunately meant that access to drawback benefits continues to be limited to some
50-100 firms among Ecuador's more than 3,000 exporters.

Leverage broadly the successes of learning and innovation programs. MICIP and CORPEI have
done a good job of building the demonstration effect of the LIF. They have on various occasions
disseminated results to the Presidency of the Republic, COMEXI, the Ministries of Agriculture
and Tourism, and to private business associations. Independent press and journal accounts of
individual success cases have also been widely circulated. Still, more emphasis should be placed
in the future on finding additional ways to showcase success stories, such as through fairs and the
Internet, to further leverage the resources expended in these programs.

Evaluate learning and innovation programs earlier and later. Early monitoring and evaluation
of subprojects was found under the Project to be a sound tool for program management and
policy adjustments to ensure proper targeting. It is also useful to herald early successes and


                                                - 20 -

maintain continuing support for such programs. Given that the effects of subproject activities that
focus on repositioning firms for export development (as opposed to purely promotional activities
for existing products), economic evaluation work should also be scheduled for 1-2 years
following the completion of disbursements to better determine the full impact.

Evaluate the fiscal impact of learning and innovation programs. Future evaluation work should
also undertake a more effective assessment of the fiscal impact of such programs. The evaluation
of Multiplica attempted without much success to secure tax data from LIF participants to
determine the return to the Government in the form of income taxes, VAT, and social security
contributions by employers and employees. A very rough order of magnitude calculated with
available data inferred that the gross grant value of the LIF provided by the Government might
return some US$0.8 million per year in income taxes paid on incremental profits. To this would
have to be added contributions from VAT and social security. More effective assessments will
help Ecuador and other governments to assess the net cost-benefit of such programs.

Adjust policies to improve the impact of learning and innovation programs on microbusiness.
Learning and innovation programs can be productively applied to groups of microbusiness to
achieve improvements in business practices and outward oriented growth. A major determining
factor for success is the implementation capacity of the participating sponsor. In future programs,
work to pre-qualify the technical capacity and experience of potential sponsors, be they NGOs,
business associations or academic institutions, needs to be intensified. Also, the process of review
and approval of subprojects, while already covering standard criteria like product-market
objectives, products, market competitiveness, etc., needs to include better screening and appraisal
of the needs of the microbusinesses and the selection of participating firms. Subprojects should in
general involve a smaller group of microbusinesses. This should be coupled with more explicit
involvement of participants in the design and budgeting of subprojects to increase participant
involvement and self-reliance. For support in highly technical areas, such as production
technology and quality programs, it is useful to pre-qualify service providers to help ensure
effectiveness.

Use "competitiveness" as a process tool for policy reform. The competitiveness diagnostics
carried out under the Program were one important impetus for structuring senior government
attention to this subject and increasing public-private collaboration around this thematic. While
they also resulted in a national agenda of issues, the real value of this work is as an ongoing
process tool to design and measure the impact of public policy reforms in relation to their specific
impact on cluster and firm-level competitive performance. This methodology can be a powerful
tool to focus policy maker and mobilize a consensus for major policy change.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The State General Comptroller assessed the Project on behalf of the Government. It reviewed the
description of the Project and reviewed in-depth each of the three Project components and the
technical support unit, audits and evaluations. Below is the summary of this report.




                                                - 21 -

We have audited the International Trade and Integration Project executed by the Ministry of
Foreign Trade, Industry, Fishery and Competitiveness MICIP, through the Project's Technical
Unit (PTU), for the period from January 1, 2000 to September 30, 2002, according to the Annual
Plan of Activities of the Auditing Direction Four and to the Working Plan stated in the document
No. 31984-D of October 7, 2002.

The overall aim of the project is to achieve sustainable development of the trading activity in the
context of a competitive country.        The objective of the project is to promote a greater
social-economic growing of the Ecuadorian economy, using as an instrument the development of
the foreign trade and integration within the global economy, which tends to accelerate growth and
can render benefits to reduce poverty in the country to: (a) modernize, at a national and
government level, the institutional frame of the State, regarding the administration of foreign trade
and better access to the international trade markets; (b) at enterprise level, promote the
management training and entrepreneurial innovation, especially between the medium and small
enterprises, in order to establish links with the foreign trade; and (c) to support the improvement
of the quality and productivity of the export sector.

We analyzed the execution of the components of the project. Due to the lack of initial indicators
that would allow to measure the degree of completion and development of each component, as to
quantity, quality, time, and cost, we proceeded to measure its completion, considering as factors
the expected products established in the Loan Agreement and in the Operational Manual of the
"Unidad Técnica Ejecutora del Proyecto" determining the following classifications for each of
them:

Component A "Modernization of the Foreign Trade Administration and Access to Markets" for
which the objective is to improve the capacity to negotiate, analyze and define the policies of the
MICIP and COMEXI.             This is SATISFACTORY; with the exception, however, of
Subcomponent A.5 Strengthening Reform to the Draw Back System for which the Internal
Revenue Service (SRI) in charge of the implementation of said system does not agree with the
mechanism used in the application of the Draw Back and prefers to continue with the previous
system. However, changes were subsequently made to the system which enabled improvements.
Also, the indicators were not contemplated in two subcomponents and this did not allow to
measure the degree of completion.

Component B "Entrepreneurial Learning and Innovation, Shared Funds in Agreement with the
Trade and Investments Promoting Corporation" for which the objective is to promote the
international competitiveness and export development especially between the small enterprises of
the informal sector and small enterprises of lower resources, is VERY SATISFACTORY as all
the proposed goals and objectives are being met; however it provided technical and economic
advice not only to the small, medium and micro-enterprises but also to the big industrial and
flower enterprises.

The Component C "Quality Program" for which the objective comprises the establishment of the
National Quality System, in which the activities of Metrology, Normalization, Accreditation and
Certification of Quality with training and technical assistance is SATISFACTORY; however, one



                                                - 22 -

of the contracts signed "Assistance Services to the Official Organization of Accreditation of the
Ecuadorian Quality System MNAC" which is of fundamental importance for the Quality Program
was not carried out.

The programmed and developed activities of Component D "Auditing Services; Administration
and Evaluation of the Project" for which the objective includes the administration and evaluation
of the execution of the project is SATISFACTORY because the programmed and executed
activities to reach the principal objective of the component are being met in quantity and quality,
in spite of lack of positive and active participation of some consultants that have not presented
their work reports.
In our opinion, after analyzing and verifying the project information, we consider that it is
PROBABLE that the achievements and objectives, as were initially planned, will be implemented
during and after the completion of the project.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                 - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate


Increased sustained export capacity via         Assessment of strategic export plans, new      Assessment of strategic export plans, new
new export partnerships; knowledge &            export alliances, technological inovation and  export alliances, technological inovation and
technology acquisition, employment and          export informatoin systems rated 62% of        export informatoin systems rated 62% of
wages; new exporting firms (direct and          beneficiaries achieving high 'export culture', beneficiaries achieving high 'export culture',
indirectly), diversification of export products 23% middle level and 15% remained at low       23% middle level and 15% remained at low
and destinations.                               level.                                         level.

                                                Initial response to LIF showed micro and       Initial response to LIF showed micro and
                                                SME exports increased by 36%, 44%              SME exports increased by 36%, 44%
                                                introduced new export products, 70% had        introduced new export products, 70% had
                                                found new export buyers, 37% exported to a     found new export buyers, 37% exported to a
                                                new country and MSME employment                new country and MSME employment
                                                increased by 22%..                             increased by 22%..




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
MODERNIZING INTERNATIONAL TRADE
MANAGEMENT


Foreign Trade and Investment Law: adopted Achieved and remains in place                        Achieved and remains in place
during Project preparation. Implementation
target is maintenance of this framework law


Technical barriers to trade: reduce from 80% Achieved. However, some backslidding in           Achieved. However, some backslidding in
to 25% share of mandatory technical             share to about 36%                             share to about 36%
standards. Implementation target is
maintenance or better


New trade policies: consistent with WTO         Achieved                                       Achieved
Accession Agreement on



Agreements on Safeguards, Antidumping,          Decree 003 Gazetted on May 24, 2000            Decree 003 Gazetted on May 24, 2000
and Subsidies and Countervailing Duties         adopted best practices on unfair trade         adopted best practices on unfair trade
                                                practices safeguards                           practices safeguards


Technical Barriers to Trade                     Decree 401 of May 22, 2000 adopted WTO         Decree 401 of May 22, 2000 adopted WTO
                                                Good Conduct Code on preparation, adoption Good Conduct Code on preparation, adoption
                                                and application                                and application


Conclude new market-expanding trade             Achieved. Agreement with Peru signed in        Achieved. Agreement with Peru signed in
agreements on the subregional, regional and 1999, which increased to 586 the products          1999, which increased to 586 the products
inter-regional level.                           with zero tariff. Trade negotiations training  with zero tariff. Trade negotiations training
                                                completed in preparation for FTAA round via completed in preparation for FTAA round via
                                                Georgetown U. OAS senior trade negotiators Georgetown U. OAS senior trade negotiators
                                                course.                                        course.




                                                                    - 24 -

Operational capacity and training capacity in Achieved - 1,409 entrepreneurs trained in     Achieved - 1,409 entrepreneurs trained in
trade policy issues: train 45 MICIP staff and  entry level ABCs of Exports course; MICIP    entry level ABCs of Exports course; MICIP
modernize related workstations, 20 university staff training in commercial English language staff training in commercial English language
fellows and 12 scholarships.


Effective operation of SIGEF                   Achieved. MOSTA-CONAM's SIGEF                Achieved. MOSTA-CONAM's SIGEF
administrative-financial management system     System implementation in MICIP               System implemented in MICIP
and upgrading of communications &
information technology: implement
Bank-financed (MOSTA Project) SIFIAD
system for MICIP's Financial and
Administrative Management.


Effective operation of unfair trade practices  Achieved. Implementation Plan completed.     Achieved. Implementation Plan completed.
safeguards regulation: build management
capacity in the specialized trade policy areas
of unfair trade practices safeguards.


Complete cluster competitiveness               Achieved. Clusters studies for mango,        Achieved. Clusters studies for mango,
diagnostics and action programs: assess the tourism, artisanal products, textiles and tuna tourism, artisanal products, textiles and tuna
level of international competitiveness and     completed among others.                      completed among others.
recommend program strategies in 5
productive clusters.


Duty drawback system: revise regulations       Partially achieved. Regulations reformed and Partially achieved. Regulations reformed and
and institutional performace of drawback       time for refunds of taxes reduced from 6-12  time for refunds of taxes reduced from 6-12
administration in Customs in order to achieve  months to 40-90 days.                        months to 40-90 days.
cut from 12 to 5 steps and reduction of
response times to a maximum of 15 days




ENTREPRENEURIAL LEARNING AND
INNOVATION


Accelerate entrepreneurial learning and        Achieved                                     Achieved
innovation at the enterprise level to increase
international competitiveness: At least 500
firms to complete learning and innovation
programs.


Accelerate entrepreneurial learning and        Achieved                                     Achieved
innovation by low-income microbusinesses
for development of direct or indirect exporter
links: at least 2,000 small firms to complete
grassroots growth programs.


NATIONAL QUALITY PROGRAM


 Quality promotion & mutual recognition        Partially achieved. National Quality Council Partially achieved. National Quality Council
agreements, accreditation operating system, legislation passed and entity established,      legislation passed and entity established,
certification of firms, and INEN commercial    private laboratories accredited and firm     private laboratories accredited and firm
services privatization                         products and processes certified to          products and processes certified to
                                               international standards. First stage         international standards. First stage
                                               implementation of mutual recognition         implementation of mutual recognition
                                               agreements achieved. INEN privatization of   agreements achieved. INEN privatization of
                                               commercial services not achieved.            commercial services not achieved.



1 End of project




                                                                  - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million   US$ million
1. Modernize the state's trade management                     5.60            6.30            113
2. Catalyze entrepreneurial Learning and Innovation          33.10          20.70            62.5
3. Upgrade product quality                                    2.80            1.80             64
4. PPF ref. project management, auditing & evaluation         1.10            1.70          154.4

Total Baseline Cost                                          42.60          30.50
                           Total Project Costs               42.60          30.50
                   Total Financing Required                  42.60          30.50


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00          0.20         0.00         0.20
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.20)         (0.00)      (0.20)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00          1.00         0.00         1.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.60)         (0.00)      (0.60)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00         11.50         0.00        11.50
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (9.60)         (0.00)      (9.60)
4. Learning & Innov. Fund            0.00           0.00         29.30         0.00        29.30
& Grassroot Growth
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (10.00)        (0.00)     (10.00)
5. PPF reimbursement                 0.00           0.00          0.60         0.00         0.60
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.60)         (0.00)      (0.60)
   Total                             0.00           0.00         42.60         0.00        42.60
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (21.00)        (0.00)     (21.00)




                                                 - 26 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                                    1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB
                                                              NCB                     2                         Total Cost
                                                                               Other             N.B.F.

    1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.19             0.00         0.19
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.19)           (0.00)       (0.19)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.73             0.00        0.73
                                           (0.00)             (0.0)             (0.73)           (0.00)       (0.73)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              9.70             0.00        9.70
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)             (9.40)           (0.00)       (9.40)
    4. Learning & Innov. Fund               0.00               0.00             19.20             0.00        19.20
    & Grassroot Growth                     (0.00)            (0.00)             (9.60)           (0.00)       (9.60)
   5. Reimbursement PPF                     0.00               0.00              0.68             0.00        0.68
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.68)           (0.00)       (0.68)
       Total                                0.00               0.00             30.50             0.00        30.50
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)            (20.60)           (0.00)       (20.60)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Modernize the state's       5.50                                  6.00         0.30                  109.1
trade management
2. Catalyze entrepreneurial   11.51                     21.60       11.10                    9.60       96.4               44.4
learning & innovation
3. Upgrade product quality     2.80                                  1.80                               64.3

4. PPF, Proj. Mgmt,            1.10                                  1.70                               154.5
auditing, evaluation PPF
Total                         21.00                     21.60       20.60         0.30       9.60       98.1               44.4




                                                          - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              January 1995              1    Financial Specialist                S               S
                                        1    Sr. Operations Officer              S               S
                                        1    Research Specialist                 S               S
              May 1996                  1    Pr. Operations Officer              S               S
                                        1    Trade Promotion Spec.               S               S
                                        1    Trade Financial Spec.               S               S
                                        1    Research Specialist                 S               S
              March 1997                1    Environment Specialist              S               S
                                        1    Pr. Operations Officer              S               S
                                        1    Standards & Qual.Expert             S               S
                                        1    Research Specialist                 S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              March 1998                1    Safeguards Specialist               S               S
                                        1    Pr. Operations Officer              S               S
                                        1    Standards & Quality Specialist      S               S

 Supervision
              August 1999               1    Research Assistant                  S               S
                                        1    Pr. Operations Officer              S               S
              July 2000                 1    Pr. Operations Officer              S               S
                                        1    Standard & Quality Specialist       S               S
                                        1    Research Assistant                  S               S
              January 2002              1    Pr. Operations Officer              S               S
                                        1    Standard & Quality Specialist       S               S
                                        1    Research Assistant                  S               S
              October 2002              1    Procurement Specialist              S               S
                                        1    Standard & Quality Specialist       S               S
                                        1    Pr. Operations Officer              S               S
              March 2003                1    Sector Manager                      S               S
                                        1    Standard & Quality Specialist       S               S
                                        1    Pr. Operations Office               S               S

 ICR
              August 2003               1     Pr. Operations Officer             S               S
                                        1     Standard & Quality Specialist      S               S




                                              - 29 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            78.6                         339.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   3.7                          25.6
  Supervision                          71.95                         409.3
  ICR                                   5.45                           32.4
  Total                                159.7                         806.3




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. "Ecuador's Technical Barriers to Trade", Enrique Sierra, April 2003
2. "Review of Performance 2000-2003 June and Recommendations for Expansion of Capacity
and Activities", J. Michael Finger, June, 2003, which reflects findings from government and 20
representatives of private enterprises and industry associations affected by the work of the
Division.
3. "Evaluacion del Sub-componente sobre el Sistema Drawback", May 2003, Milton Nunez
Garces, which was based upon interviews of public officials concerned as well as 7 business
associations and 35 user companies.
4. "Resultados obtenidos a la evaluación del subcomponente de capacitación pueblos indigenas,
montubios y negros", Edgar Luis Sarango Correa, May 2003
5. "Informe Consolidado de Cinco Etapas de Evaluacion" Multiplica (Quito), Septiembre 2002.
6. "Evaluacion de Impacto ­ Programa de Competitividad para las Microempresas", Multiplica
(Quito), Mayo 2003
7. "Informe de Consultoria para la Evaluacion Final del Sistema Ecuatoriano de la Calidad", of
June 2003 by Ing. Perla Puterman S.
8. "Programa de Mejoramiento Continuo de la Calidad y Competitividad en Pequeñas y Medianas
Empresas", Multiplica (Quito), May 2003




                                                 - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Footnotes


1/    "Exportando Hacia el Exito: Estrategia Comprensiva para impulsar el Desarrollo de
      Ecuador", The Services Group, 1996.
2/    "Ecuador's Technical Barriers to Trade" Enrique Sierra, April 2003.
3/    "Review of Performance and Recommendations for Expansion of Capacity and
      Activities", J. Michael Finger, June, 2003.
4/    "Evaluacion del Sub-componente sobre el Sistema Drawback", May 2003, Milton Nunez
      Garces, which was based upon interviews of public officials concerned as well as 7
      business associations and 35 user companies)
5/    "Resultados obtenidos en la evaluacion del subcomponente de capacitacion pueblos
      indigenas, montuios y negros", Edgar Luis Sarango Correa, May 2003
6/    In some cases, two grants were provided to a firm when a plan was divided into segments.
7/    "Informe Consolidado de Cinco Etapas de Evaluacion" Multiplica (Quito), Septiembre
      2002.
8/    "Evaluación de Impacto - Programa de Competitividad para la Microempresa y Programa,
      Multiplica"(Quito), Mayo 2003.
9/    Informe de Consultoria para la Evauacion Final del Sistema Ecuatoriano de la Calidad",
      Ing. Perla Puterman S., Junio 2003.
10/   See "Ecuador: Fostering Environmentally Sustainable Tourism and Small Business
      Innovation and Growth in the Galápagos" in the Bank's "En Breve" series by Jose
      Valdivieso, Bob Toth, James Hanna and Juan Quintero, June 2003.
11/   "Programa de Mejoramiento Continuo de la Calidad y Competitividad en Pequeñas y
      Medianas Empresas, Multiplica" (Quito), May 2003.
12/   "CORPEI 1998-2002, A Five-Year Reveiw of Progress" by Matt Moran, January 2003.




                                              - 34 -

- 35 -

