Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7399-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Rural Poverty Reduction Project 
–
Piauí) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF PIAUÍ 
 
Dated July 24, 2007  
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7399-BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 24, 2007, entered into between the  INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (
“Bank”) and the STATE OF PIAUÍ 
(“Borrower”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to the 
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty two million five hundred thousand Dollars 
($22,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject to any waiver 
of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) of the 
Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the 
Bank from time to time.   
Page  3
-
2
-
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, with the prior non-objection of the Guarantor, 
through the Secretariat of Na
tional Treasury of the Guarantor’s Ministry of 
Finance, request any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in 
order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a 
Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the 
Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III 
—PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project, through SEPLAN with the assistance of the 
Municipal Councils, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire on January 18, 
2008. 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has been 
duly registered with the Central Bank of Brazil. 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. The 
Borrower
’s Representative is the Secretary of Planning of the Borrower. 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaria do Planejamento do Estado do Piauí 
 
Av. Miguel Rosa, 3.190 - Sul 
 
64.001-490 Teresina, Piauí 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-86) 3221-2241 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
With copy to: 
 
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, DF 
 Brazil 
 
Facsímile: (55-61) 3225-4022 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Brasília, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Briscoe 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF PIAUÍ 
 
By /s/ José Wellington Barroso De Araújo Dias 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase social and economic opportunities for the 
Municipalities' rural poor by improving access to basic, social and economic infrastructure 
through Community Subprojects; (b) to increase the social capital of rural communities to 
organize collectively and meet their own needs; (c) to foster local governance and citizenship 
through strengthening of Municipal Councils, at the same time forging links with governmental 
and non-governmental agencies, civil society, financial institutions and the private sector; and (d)  
to scale up the impact of the Original Project by using the social capital created by the Original 
Project to further increase incomes of the rural poor and by fostering closer integration of 
development policies, programs and projects in rural areas at the local level, by assisting 
Municipal Councils to extend their role in seeking funding from, setting priorities for and making 
decisions concerning the allocation of resources from other programs beyond the  Project. 
The Project consists of the following parts included in the Original Project, as amended 
below solely for purposes of the Loan: 
Part 1
:
Community Subprojects
:
Financing through Area Grants of small scale community 
investments (Community Subprojects) consisting, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) infrastructure investments 
such as rural water supply, electrification, 
and access to communities’ improvements; (b) social 
investments such as construction and rehabilitation of day care centers, schools and health posts; 
and (c) other investments such as small-scale community agro-processing, purchase of 
agricultural equipment and minor irrigation schemes. 
Part 2
:
Institutional Development
:
(a) Provision of technical assistance and training for 
Community Associations in, 
inter alia
,
community mobilization and organization, preparation of 
Community Subprojects, and operation and maintenance of such Community Subprojects; (b) 
training and equipping of Municipal Councils with respect to the role of Municipal Councils, the 
contents of the Operational Manual, Community Subproject evaluation and supervision, 
environmental assessment of Community Subprojects, participatory planning and financial 
management; (c) provision of on-the-job training and expert advice for the STU, Municipal 
Councils, and Community Associations on technical matters regarding the Community Subprojects 
preparation/execution cycle (such matters to include, for example, standard designs, monitoring 
techniques and financial management); (d) provision of technical assistance for SEPLAN in support 
of the implementation of the Borrower's administrative modernization in areas related to the 
Project; and (e) carrying out of workshops and seminars for Municipal Councils and Community 
Associations to exchange views and disseminate information and experience with respect to the 
carrying out of the Project. 
Part 3
:
Project Administration
:
Support to the overall Project implementation, coordination and 
supervision including, 
inter alia
:
(a) the operation of the STU and its field offices related to 
Project implementation; (b) the operation of the MIS; (c) the carrying out of the statewide 
information campaign initiated under the Original Project to disseminate information about the 
Page  7
-
6
-
Project and (d) the carrying out of studies to assess the impact of the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
a
baseline evaluation study, an annual physical performance review, a mid-term implementation 
review, and a comprehensive impact evaluation. 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, through SEPLAN, 
maintain during Project implementation, the STU with responsibilities, structure and 
functions satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower, through SEPLAN, shall enter into Area Grant Agreements whenever 
appropriate for the carrying out of the Project, such agreements to be made in accordance 
with the terms of the respective draft set forth in the New Model Forms 
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank annual operating plans and 
budgets, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the Project activities proposed to be carried 
out during the next succeeding year and the respective sources of funding therefor, by 
October 30 of each year; and (b) furnish to the Bank the approved annual operating plans 
and respective budget (Approved POA) referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
each year in question, not later than 30 days after the approval of the Borrower's annual 
budget by its 
Assembléia Legislativa
 (Legislative Assembly). 
4. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual and 
the Approved POAs, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A.
 Project 
Reports. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual and agreed with the 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after end of the period covered 
by such report.  
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
Page  9
-
8
-
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A.
 General.
 
1.
 Goods 
and 
Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B.
 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.
 
1.
 
National Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions: 
(a) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.52 of the Procurement Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid 
evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, 
and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to 
bid. 
(b) 
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised for at 
least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil. 
(c) 
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture (
consórcio)
 of 
Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each 
case. 
Page  10
-
9
-
(d) 
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices. 
(e) 
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any change 
order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than National Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used: 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  Shopping 
(b) Goods and works under Community Subprojects, 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
the Operational Manual for community participation. 
C.
 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Least-Cost Selection
 
(b) Single Source Selection 
(c) Individual Consultants 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions. 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A. 
General. 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the 
Borrower, to finance Eligible Expenditures, Area Grants and New Administrative Costs 
as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
 (“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures, Area Grants and New Administrative Costs in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)  Area Grants (goods, works 
 
75% of the cost of the 
 
and services) 
 
Community Subproject 
 
financed by an Area Grant. 
 
(a)  Area 1 Grants 
12,640,000 
 
(b)  Area 2 Grants 
5,420,000 
 
(2) Consultants' services 
3,160,000 
 
100% 
 
and training for Parts 
 
2
and 3 of the Project 
 
(3)  New Administrative Costs: 
 
(a) Incremental operational  
 
costs 180,000 
 
20% 
 
(b) Project supervision and 
270,000 
 
50% 
 
monitoring costs 
 
(4)  Fee  
56,250 
Amount due  
 
under Section  
 
2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
(5) Premia for Interest Rate 
-0- 
Amount due under 
 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 
 
Section 2.08 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(6) Unallocated  
773,750 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 22,500,000
B
.
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, 
in an aggregate amount not exceeding $4,500,000, may be made on account of 
payments made within twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement; and   
(b) 
payments under an Area Grant for a Community Subproject costing more than 
the equivalent of $50,000, unless the Bank shall have approved such Community 
Subproject. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009.  The Bank will only grant an extension of the Closing 
Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank that it agrees with 
such extension.
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2011  
 
through September 15, 2022  
 
4.17 % 
On March 15, 2023 
4.09 % 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
Page  14
-
13
-
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  15
-
14
-
APPENDIX 
 Section 
I
.
Definitions
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Original Loan 
Agreement and the General Conditions, have the respective meanings therein set forth, and are 
hereby incorporated to this Agreement. Additionally, the following definitions also constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
1. 
“Area Grants” means Area 1 Grants and/or Area 2 Grants. 
2. 
“Area Grant Agreements” means any of the agreements to be entered into between the 
Borrower and a Community Association, providing for an Area Grant. 
3. 
“Area 1 Grants” means grants to be made by the Borrower to a Community Association for 
the financing of Community Subprojects in those Municipalities with the lowest HDI. 
4. 
 “Area 2 Grants” means grants to be made by the Borrower to a Community Association 
for the financing of Community Subprojects in those remaining Municipalities not covered 
by Area 1 Grants. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
7. 
"HDI” means human development index, which is measured by the Guarantor’s 
Instituto 
de Pesquisas Econômicas Aplicadas
 
–
(IPEA) on the basis of the indicators for health, 
education and income in the Borrower’s territory. 
8. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Original Project between 
the Bank and the Borrower, dated March 21, 2002 (Loan No.4624-BR). 
9. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
10. 
“New Administrative Costs” means the incremental operational costs (which would not 
have occurred absent the Project) and the supervision and monitoring costs of the Project 
incurred by the STU under Part 3 of the Project excluding expenditures for salaries and 
related benefits and training. 
11. 
“New Model Forms” means the set of model draft Area Grant Agreements satisfactory to 
the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual. 
Page  16
-
15
-
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
September 28, 2005 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
14. 
“SEPLAN” means S
ecretaria do Planejamento do Estado do Piauí
,
the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Planning.
 
