Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.: 34821 
Project Name 
Piau
í
Rural Poverty Reduction Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P050881 
Borrower(s) 
STATE OF PIAUÍ 
Implementing Agency 
State Secretariat of Planning/State Technical Unit 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
December 15, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 19, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The Original Project of US$30.0 million, with Bank financing in the amount of US$22.5 million, 
was approved on June 26, 2001. Objectives under the Original Project are four-fold:  (1) 
improving well-being and incomes of the rural poor through greater access to basic social and 
economic infrastructure and services and support for productive activities, using proven 
community-driven development (CDD) techniques; (2) increasing the social capital of rural 
communities and capacity to  organize collectively to meet their own needs; (3) enhancing local 
governance by greater citizen participation and transparency in decision-making, through 
creation and strengthening of community associations and Municipal Councils; and (4) fostering 
closer integration of development policies, programs and projects in rural areas at the local level, 
by assisting the project’s participatory Municipal Councils to extend their role in seeking funding 
from, setting priorities for and making decisions concerning the allocation of resources from 
other programs outside the Bank-supported project.  As confirmed through Bank supervision, the 
Ongoing Project has thus far reached 165,000 people with some 1,100 subproject investments.  
The Northeast Rural Poverty Reduction Project (RPRP) 
–
of
which the ongoing 
project in Piauí forms part – was also presented at the 2004 Shanghai Conference 
as a best practice experience in poverty reduction.
1
Reasons for the proposed Additional Financing
:
Consistent with other operations under the 
RPRP, the Federal Government approved borrowing by the State of Pi
auí and also indicated its 
willingness to support subsequent financing of a future scaling up, provided project performance 
would be satisfactory.  Initially, Piauí borrowed US$22.5 million from the Bank for the ongoing 
project.  Recent Bank supervision confirms satisfactory project performance. Specifically, 
project implementation has accelerated significantly since its Mid-term Review in 2004 and all 
1
The RPRP is a CDD program consisting of a set of individual state-level loans (either under supervision or in 
processing) totaling US$414 m. to all NE states.  These projects share similar characteristics in terms of design, 
participatory mechanisms and implementation arrangements.   
Page  2
community investment funds under the project are now fully committed. A large number of 
remaining community investments have already been analyzed and rural communities now await 
the availability of funding for their implementation.  As such and in order to match its 
demonstrated absorptive capacity, State of Piauí has requested that the Bank proceed with the 
scaling up.  The Federal Government is prepared to guarantee Additional Financing for the 
project scaling up in an amount up to that of the ongoing loan of US$22.5 million.  Given both 
the existing community investment demand and that expected to occur under the proposed 
scaling up, the State of Piauí wishes to proceed with the full amount possible of US$22.5 
million.   
 
In strategic terms, it would continue the Bank’s assistance to the State of Piauí for basic socio-
economic investments in exceptionally poor rural areas, contributing directly to the achievement 
of the State’s Multi-Year Investment Program (PPA, 2004-2007) and improve its Human 
Development Index (HDI).  The PPA explicitly assumes the continuation of Bank support under 
the Additional Financing.   Under the Ongoing Project, the State has exceeded all key physical 
targets and successfully leveraged additional counterpart funding and access for poor rural 
communities – through their representative Municipal Councils – from a series of public 
agencies and programs.  This process is having the added benefit of strengthening the 
coordination and effectiveness of those programs through their exposure to the Councils’ 
participatory mechanisms for priority-setting, decision-making and targeting.  Scaling up means 
therefore, not only the additional financing from the Bank, but also mobilizing additional 
resources from other State and Federal programs to increase overall poverty impact in the rural 
Northeast, and scaling up the use of the CDD mechanisms themselves by applying them to 
community investments outside the project. 
2. Proposed objectives 
 
The proposed Additional Financing would support the scaling-up of the Rural Poverty Reduction 
Project in Piauí to (1) improve well-being and incomes of the rural poor through greater access to 
basic social and economic infrastructure and services and support for productive activities, using 
proven community-driven development (CDD) techniques; (2) increase the social capital of rural 
communities and capacity to  organize collectively to meet their own needs; (3) enhance local 
governance by greater citizen participation and transparency in decision-making, through 
creation and strengthening of community associations and Municipal Councils; and (4) foster 
closer integration of development policies, programs and projects in rural areas at the local level, 
by assisting the project’s participatory Municipal Councils to extend their role in seeking funding 
from, setting priorities for and making decisions concerning the allocation of resources from 
other programs outside the Bank-supported project. 
3.  Preliminary description for the additional financing 
 
As under the Original Project, the Additional Financing will support the following three 
components:   
(1) 
Community Subprojects 
will provide matching grants to community associations to 
finance their implementation of about 1,200 small-scale socio-economic infrastructure, 
education, health, culture, productive, environmental and other investments; 
Page  3
(2)
 Institutional Development
 will support technical assistance and training to mobilize 
and strengthen community associations in their role of identifying, preparing, operating 
and maintaining subproject investments; and  
(3) 
Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
 will support, 
inter alia
,
the costs (excluding salaries) of State Technical Unit (STU), the monitoring of 
project implementation and subsequent impact evaluation.  
The implementation arrangements for the proposed activities under the Additional Financing will 
be the same as those for the Ongoing Project.  Overall project management will continue to be 
the responsibility of the State Technical Unit (STU) of the State Secretariat of Planning. The 
project would continue to be implemented according to procedures defined in its Operational 
Manual.   Community associations, as under the Ongoing Project, will identify, prepare, 
implement, supervise, operate and maintain their subproject investments, assisted both by 
technical specialists (whom they contract directly) and by technical assistance and training (made 
available by the project Municipal Councils and the STU). As the key organization for targeting 
of benefits and allocating subproject resources, the project Municipal Councils will provide a 
critical link to local government and have the potential to engage in other non-project activities, 
as has been the case under the Ongoing Project. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply to the proposed Additional Financing 
The Ongoing Project is already covered by an Environmental Management Plan (under 
OP
/
BP
4.01), the procedures of which are detailed in the Project Operational Manual and have been 
applied systematically and routinely under the Ongoing Project, with satisfactory results. The 
Project Operational Manual also details the procedures for addressing Natural Habitats (OP/BP 
4.04), Pest Management (OP 4.09) and Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11). 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 7.50 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
22.50 
COMMUNITY ASSOCIATIONS 
2.50 
 Total 
30.00 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Luis O. Coirolo 
Title: Sector Lead Specialist, Rural Development 
Tel: (202) 473-1820 
Fax: (202) 522-3132 
Email: Lcoirolo@worldbank.org 
Location: Recife, Brazil (IBRD)
 
