Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
ADDITIONAL FINANCING 
Report No.:  
34824
………. 
 
Date ISDS Updated: December 15, 2005 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Brazil 
Project ID: P050881 
Project Name:  Piauí Rural Poverty 
Reduction Project   
Task Team Leader: Luis O. Coirolo 
Estimated Appraisal Date Additional 
Financing:  December 19, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: February 2006 
Managing Unit: LCSER 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan (SIL) 
Sector: General Ag (100%) 
Theme:  Participation and civic 
engagement; rural services and 
infrastructure; municipal governance and 
institution building. 
Safeguard Policies Specialists in the task team:   
Raimundo José (Environment); 
Alberto Coelho Costa (Social) 
Loan amount ($m.):  
IBRD:  22.5 m. 
B.  Project Objectives 
The proposed Additional Financing would support the continuation of the Rural Poverty 
Reduction Project in Piauí to (1) improve well-being and incomes of the rural poor 
through greater access to basic social and economic infrastructure and services and 
support for productive activities, using proven community-driven development (CDD) 
techniques; (2) increase the social capital of rural communities and capacity to  organize 
collectively to meet their own needs; (3) enhance local governance by greater citizen 
participation and transparency in decision-making, through creation and strengthening of 
community associations and municipal councils; and (4) foster closer integration of 
development policies, programs and projects in rural areas at the local level, by assisting 
the project’s participatory municipal councils to extend their role in seeking funding 
from, setting priorities for and making decisions concerning the allocation of resources 
from other programs beyond the Bank-supported project. 
Page  2
C.  Project Description 
 
As under the Original Project, the Additional Financing will support the following three 
components:   
(1) 
Community Subprojects 
will provide matching grants to community associations to 
finance their implementation of about 1,200 small-scale socio-economic infrastructure, 
education, health, culture, productive, environmental and other investments; 
(2)
 Institutional Development
 will support technical assistance and training to mobilize 
and strengthen community associations in their role of identifying, preparing, operating 
and maintaining subproject investments; and  
(3) 
Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
 will support, 
inter alia
,
the costs (excluding salaries) of State Technical Unit (STU), the monitoring of 
project implementation and subsequent impact evaluation.  
Supervision ratings for the Ongoing Project have consistently been fully satisfactory, 
both for Development Objectives and Implementation Progress.  The latest supervision 
mission (September 2005) showed that 
the Piauí project had reached some 165,000 
people with some 1,100 subproject investments in basic socio-economic and productive 
infrastructure. 
D.  Project location  
 
The Project area remains the same as that for the Ongoing Project and will cover 222 
municipalities (of the 223 total statewide). 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies 
 
The State Technical Unit (STU) for the Ongoing Project has complied fully with Bank 
safeguards and project environmental rules.  The Ongoing Project operates under an 
environmental management plan (EMP), which has worked well and whose requirements 
and procedures will continue to govern the proposed Additional Financing.   
 
II. SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
 
Applicable?
Safeguard Policy 
If Applicable, How Might It Apply? 
[X] 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01)   
 
The ongoing 
Piauí Rural Poverty Reduction Project (classified as 
Category B)
,
applies several environmental "screens" during the technical 
assessment of subproject proposals, and is currently operating an EMP 
under the Ongoing Project, which is functioning satisfactorily.  
 
Specifically, the EMP: (a) ensures that the Project is fully compliant with 
Page  3
relevant State and Federal environmental legislation and Bank Safeguards; 
(b) further consolidates the integration of environmental standards in 
subprojects financed under the Project; (c) fosters a convergence between 
rural poverty reduction and the conservation and adequate valuation of the 
environment; and (d) links environmental conservation and protection 
activities with investments that contribute to an increase in the HDI, 
consistent with  
Piauí’s medium-term investment program (PPA), 2004-
2007). 
 
[X]
 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
As discussed in the EMP and further detailed in the Project Operational 
Manual, neither the State, nor the Bank, through the Project, will approve 
subprojects which cause degradation to essential natural habitats. 
[X]
 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
The EMP already defines a process, including screening criteria in the 
Project Operational Manual, for detecting the potential use of pesticides 
under both the Ongoing Project and the proposed Additional Financing. 
Where appropriate, the Project already promotes integrated pest 
management approaches under subproject investments.   
[X]
 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
In the event of “chance finds”, the Project Operational Manual already 
outlines procedures to be followed in the event of such discovery of 
culturally significant materials during subproject implementation.   
Environmental Assessment Category:
 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
III. APPROVALS 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Luis O. Coirolo 
Date 
Approved by:
 
Sector Manager: 
Mark Cackler 
Date 
Comments 
