Project Name               The People's Republic of Bangladesh Development Support Credit
Region                     South Asia Region
Sector                     Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project ID                 P081845
Borrower (s)               Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh (GoB)
Implementing Agency        Ministry of Fianlce
Contact Person             Mr. Zakir Ahmed
Finance Division
Ministry of Fiianice
Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesil
Cabic address       TI'elex              Facsimile
BAHIRSAMPAD         642226 SETU BJ       88028113088
Environment Category       U (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared          April 20, 2003
Projected Appraisal Date   April 20-30, 2003
Projected Board Date       June 19, 2003                         15       P q      q
1. Country Background
Although Bangladesh's longer-terimi achievements are noteworthy, the economy has performed below its
true potential The economy moved to a higher growth trajectoiy of 5 percent per annum during the
1990s, compared to the 4 percent anilual growth achieved in the 1980s. Poverty declined considerably
during the 1990s, from 59 percent of the country's population living below the upper poverty line in
1991-92, to 50 percent in 2000. Impressive gains were made in reducing population growth and
increasing child immuniizationi and primary and secondary enrollments (including among girls). Life
expectancy and infanit mortality improved appreciably. Despite this progress, many of Bangladeshi's
human development indicators are still at low levels, and if the counitry is to achieve its 2015 poverty
reduction goal of h'alving the incidence of poverty from current levels and further improve social
indicators, economic growth needs to increase to 6-7 percent The Government's financial capacity to
address poverty remainis constrained because of the deteriorating financial situation of the public sector,
including state enterprises. Limited structural reforms have been implemented since the mid-1990s, and
most observers believe that economic growth and poverty reductioll could accelerate if the couLitry were
to undertake significant structural reforms in the areas of governance, state owned enterprises, finanicial
sector and infrastructure.
The new Government that took office in October 2001 was elected with a strong electoral mandate to
improve governaice and law and order and to strengtheni econoiic managemenit to accelerate the pace of
economic growvth and poverty reductioll. Immediately after taking office, the Government formed a
committee of five Secretaries and embarked upoIn a 100-day program to address the most urgent issues
facing the country. A team consisting of the Finanlce Secretary, the Secretary of the Economic Relations
Division and the Governor of the Central Bank theni fine-tuned the initial menu of the Secretaries' reforn
proposals and also developed a time-bound implemenitationi plan for future reform. The reform actions
were discussed and endorsed by the Cabmiet Committee on Economic Affairs, the country's main
economic decision-making body, and implementationi began shortly thereafter
2. Objectives and Description



The proposed Development Support Credit (DSC) supports the implementation of the country's poverty
reduction strategy as spelled out in the recently finalized Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-
PRSP - see below). A Joint Staff Assessment of the l-PRSP is planned for April 2003, following which
the country will comm11enice work on the full PRSP The Government's approach has been to laulicih an
initial set of reforms in areas where broad consenisus exists, with the expectation that these will begin to
pay off shortly, creating momerntumri and public SLIppo-t for subsequenit measures The Government has
takien measures to stabilize the macroeconomic environimenit, including reducilng the central government
deficit from 5 1% of GDP in FY01 to 4 7 in FY02 througlh a combination of revenue-enhancing (e g,
widening VAT base, recruitment of iidependenit audit firms to assist tax collection, enforcemenit of
payment of corporate taxes, etc.) and expenditure-rationalizationi measures. External reserves increased to
about $1.7 billion. The fiscal transparency and day-to-day fiscal management has been put on sounder
footing. Prioritization of public expenditures led to the termination of 200 low-quality projects. The freed
funds have been reallocated to such high priority areas as MDG-related and social sector expenditures
The Government is implemenitinlg structural reforms to improve the legal and regulatory framework in
crucial sectors such as banking, energy, and telecommunications In particular, the Government passed
amendments to the Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972, grantinig operational autonomy to Bangladesh Bank on
exchange rate policy, monetary policy, bank supervision and its personnel affairs as well as amendments
to Banking Companies Act, 1991, removing all exceptions given to NCBs and SDBs in terms of the
authority and supervision of Bangladesh Bank. Capital adequacy requirements for banks have been
increased from 8 to 9 percent and minimum capital requirements are being increased from US$3 million
to US$17 million. The government has closed down 58 unprofitable branclhes of NCBs, prepared a time-
bound action plan for privatization of one NCB (and intenids to offer it for sale) and is in the process of
engaging new professional maniagemiienit for a second NCB. The Money Laundering Prevention Act, 2002,
has been enacted to check illegal financial transactions. Long overdue revisions in petroleum, gas and
power pricing framework were implemented so as to ensure efficiency and financial viability of sector
enterprises, while also protecting the poor through life-line tariffs. The Cabinet approved an Energy
Regulatory Commission Act establishing an independent Energy Regulatory Commission with authlority
over the economic regulationl of the power and gas sectors, includinig the authority to set regulated tariffs.
The Government has already announced first tariff adjustmenlts consistent with the new energy pricing
framework Significant improvement in electricity billings and collections from public and private
consumers resulted from an aggressive collection and disconnection drive
To improve broad-based governance, the Government is implemenltinig procurement and finanicial
management reforms, including piloting interinal audit in a numliber of miniistries, establishing a Central
Reconciliation Unit in the CGA's office, reforming procurement rules and mandatory use of standard bid
documents. The Government has also manidated publication of awards for contracts of US$200,000 and
above, and actual publicationi has already started. Encouraginlg progress is being made in the process of
separating audit and accounts and in implemeniting the Supreme Court directive on separation of judiciary
and executive. The Government is drafting a legislation to enable establishmenit of an Independent Anti-
Corruption Commission, as it stated in its election manifesto The Governmenlt has taken steps to improve
delivery of social services and strengthleni social safety nets. To continue support for the secondary
education of girls, the Government recently extended the female stipend program to Class 12. To
strengthen the governanice of safety net programs, the Governmenit has, with effect from July 1, 2002,
discontinued the Food for Educationi (FFE) program  - in-kind stipend characterized by high
administrative leakage - and replaced it by an expanded Primary Educationi Stipend Program (PESP),
which is a cash stipend progrram for primary school studenlts
To improve the climiate for private sector led growth, the Government has contilLued withdrawing from
participating directly in malnufacturinig activity and closed down more than 1 5 major state-owined
enterprises In a politically bold decision, in July 2002 the Governmenit closed Adamjee Jute Mills, the



largest Jute mill in the wvorld. Government negotiated the terms of closure withi the workers and their
unions, includinig a retrenchment package that has been designed to minimize social hardships caused by
lay-offs. The Governmenit is liberalizing the trade regime and has reduced the maximum           tariff rate by 5
percentage points (to 32 5 percent) and reduced the number of rates to 5. There has also been significant
rationalizationi in the structure of supplemenltary duties, with the number of rates reduced from       3 1 to 5.
Good progress has also been made in implementing Customils reform         and less than 10 signatures are now
required on Bills of Entry compared to 25 a few years ago         As a result of improvement in procedures,
clearance time hias been     reduced from     72 hours in    1999 to 3 hours now, for 95         percent of the
consignments.
Government is also engagilig its development partners, including the World Bank, in parallel dialogues to
deepen reformis in several sectors. Hence, while the proposed DSC is focused on supporting the near-term
priorities identified by the Government as critical to the implemenitation of the I-PRSP, other related
investment operations are also being prepared to support the implementationi of reforms in healthi,
education and rural development, including water managemeit.
3. Rationale of Bank's Involvement
The proposed operation is a key instrumenlt in the implementation of the agreed Country Assistance
Bangladesh's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP)
Bangladesh strategy to boost development progress rests on five pillars (i) accelerating pro-poor growth, (u) improving
governance, (ii) investiig in human dcvelopment, (Iv) women's advancemeint, and (v) ensuring social protection
Accelerationi of pro-7poorgrowth   The l-PRSP aims to raise the economy's growth rate from about 5 percent per
annum to 6-7 percent, in order to attain the MDG poverty reduction target for 2015 This is to be accomplished by (a)
ensuring a stable macroeconomic environment. (b) relying on the private sector as the engine of growth, (c) establishing
a sound and well-functioning financial system and ensuring that the poor have acccss to financial resources, (d) taking
advantage of the opportuLities provided by globalization. (e) developmig rural areas and accelerating rural non-farm
growth. (f) creating the conditions necessary' for an expanding and dynamic manufacturing sector, and (g) substantially
augmenting the capacity and quality of infrastructure services
*     Promoting Good Governance 'I'he Government's strategy' of improving governance focuses on addressing three
major areas (i) creating El competitive environment across all scgments in society, along with an unhindered flow of
informationi, (n) establishing and enforcing clear rules and regulations for public sector administration supported by
separation of power among three branches of governance along with pragmatic oversight arrangements, and (ii)
promlotinlg voice and participation of the civil society, including  oromcn, the poor and disadvantaged groups, as a step
towards a transparent and 'open' government
*     Ii nvesting in /Human Development  This is to be done through targeted expenditures in health, education, and
nutritioni  Within the health sector, although some success has been achieved in preventive health care, a small
proportion of poor people have access to public health care services The strategy thus gives priority' to completing the
unfiniished agenda and addressing the pro-poor concerns in hcalth and nutrition  The introduction of a national nutrition
program to address the malnutritioni of children under two as well as pregnant and lactating mothers through the provision of
food supplements, nutritionl and health counseling. are positive steps to address the problem  Existing food-targcting
programs. such as Vulinerable Group Development (VGD) and Rural Maintenance Program (RMP), will be used to reach
the poorest and the most vulnerable with nutrition-support packages In the area of basic edtication, the plan is to achieve
complete enrollment at the primary level and put special emphiasis on technical and vocational education
*     Promoting Women's advancement. While the gender-gap is closing in Bangladesh for most social indicators, the
overall level of cmpowverimienit measured in terms of literacy, work force participation, property rights, and credit access,
remains low  The strategy for furthering women's advancement inmcltdes emphasis on policies and institutional actions to
combat continuing negative sex ratios, violence against women, high maternal mortality, restrictions on women's
employment and economic opportunities, policies to ensuic fornal equality, supportiig affimiative actions at all levels and in
all spheres, and creating a womnen-friendly istitutionial environment overall
Ensuring Social Protection  To helip increase the poor's crisis-coping capability and formn iportant risk-
insurance policies foi thern, four sets of policies would be emphasized The first set of policies will continLe to focus on
social safety' nets, the second on policies that will address the vulnerabilities of the new poor' the third will encourage
bondinlg and bridginig across seit'help groups and NGOs at the local level, and the fourth set of policies concerns risk
insurance, including measules to mitigate risks faced by the poor



Strategy (CAS). The proposed Credit is the first in a series of proposed adjustmenit operations that will
support the implementation of the I-PRSP's medium-terimi reform agenda
4. Financing
Up to US$300 million
5. Implementation
The Ministry of Finance is responsible for coordinating and overseeing the implementation of reforms.
Technical working groups are working in all areas of reform, in most cases with technical assistance from
the IMF, World Bank and other donors
6. Sustainability, Social Impact and Poverty Monitoring
Reform  requires long-term  commitment. This is especially relevant for governance reforms and
institutional reforms that will take years of persistent effort to bear fruit. The reform effort is being led by
the Minister of Fhianice and Planning, who has an established track-record and was instrumental In
introducinig significant reforms in the early 1990s. The Minister of Finanice and Planning is being
supported by the Prime Minister and a group of reform-minded leaders who are endeavorinig to build
constituencies for chanige -within the political leadership. The 1-PRSP provides a framework for cointilnuity
of policy reforms, but its sustained implementation will require popular support. Concrete improvements
in peoples' lives as a result of implementation of reforms will be the key for sustainability.
Government is keenly awame of the potential social costs associated with some of the adjustment measures
and has taken steps to ensure that social hardships resulting from the reformis are minimized. To ensure
that workers' concerns are taken into account in the design of the SOE restructuring program, the
Governmiient has engaged in substanitive dialogue with labor leaders and workers. While the legal
minimum gratuity required. for redundanlt workers under the labor code is one month's salary per year's
service, the negotiated severance package is generous (two moniths salary for every year of service, plus a
reduLidancy payment ranging from 13 to 27 percent, dependinig upon length of service) and will mitigate
some of the hardship that retrenched workers might face. Recent increases in energy prices are expected
to contribute to an increase in inflation in the short run. However, after incorporating these price hikes,
the overall annual increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) is projected to remain under 5 percent, as
was the case in recent years Moreover, the first 100 kw hours of electricity usage are heavily subsidized,
and Government believes that this block is more thani sufficient to protect the poor, most of whom do not
have legal access to electricity supply. As Governmeit deepens its reform efforts, it also strengthlenis an
effective monitorinig system put in place to assess the social impact of adjustment.
The I-PRSP recognizes that the success of the poverty reduction strategy will require a systematic
approach to monlitorinig and evaluation, and outlines a comprehensive set of input, intermiediate, and
outcome indicators that will be used to track progress in implementing the strategy. One of the key
outputs of the poverty monitoring system will be an Annual Report on Poverty Reduction aild Social
Development, providing an overview of progress in achievinig economic growth, human development,
poverty reduction, gender equality targets and analysis of factors behind the observed trends and their
policy implications A Poverty Focal Point is envisaged in the Planning Commissioni for effective poverty
monitorinig and tracking progress in implementin1g anti-poverty policies and programs Donors, notably
the ADB, DFID, aiid the World Bank, are coordinating efforts to provide technical and financial
assistaince needed to strengtheni capacity in the Poverty Focal Point to fulfill its designated function.
7. Environment



The policy measures suppiorted by the Credit are not expected to have a negative impact on the
environment On the contrary, banninig the movement of buses more than 20 years old and trucks more
than 25 years old, as wvell as all two stroke three-wheelers (baby-taxis) registered prior to 1993 on the
streets of Dhaka, are expected to have a positive impact on the control of urban air pollution. Discussions
are underway for the World Bank to support the preparation of a Country Environmenit Assessment
(CEA), which would review the state of the environmenit, analyze existing policies, and assess current
institutional capacity for environmental managemeit. Furthier environmental reformis and institutionial
strengtheniing consistent with the CEA may be incorporated into the actions supported by future
adjustment credits.
8. Contact Point
Task Manager
Kapil Kapoor
The World Bank
Dhaka office (Bangladeshi)
Telephone. 880-2-865764-421
Elena Glinskaya
The World Bank
1818 H Street
Telephone 202-458-1294
Fax: 202-522-0356



