                         Document of
                      The World Bank




                                                        Report No: 29327

           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                          (IDA-37930)

                              ON

                           A CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 217.6 MILLION (US$300 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               TO

           THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                            FOR A

            FIRST DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT CREDIT




                          June 29, 2004

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective June 2004)

                                  Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk.)
                                            1 Tk = US$ 0.016722
                                       US$ 1.00 = 59.8 Tk

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                        July 1   June 30

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC       Anti-Corruption Commission
ADB       Asian Development Bank
BADC      Bangladesh Agriculture Development Corporation
BCIC      Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation
BSFIC     Bangladesh Sugar & Food Industries Corporation
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
DFID      Department for International Development, U.K.
DSC       Development Support Credit
ERC       Energy Regulatory Commission
FDI       Foreign Direct Investment
EGBM      Enterprise Growth and Bank Modernization Project
EMTA     Economic Management Technical Assistance Project
GOB      Government of Bangladesh
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
IAS       International Accounting Standards
IDA       International Development Association
IMF       International Monetary Fund
MTEF      Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NCB       Nationalized Commercial Bank
PRGF      Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
I-PRSP    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
SDB       Specialized Development Bank
SME       Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE       State-Owned Enterprise
TAPP      Technical Assistance Project Pro Forma
USAID     United States Agency for International Development



                                Vice President:      Praful Patel (SARVP)
                              Country Director       Christine Wallich (SACBD)
                               Sector Manager        Sadiq Ahmed (SASPR)
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Anthony Bottrill (SASPR) and
                                                     Richard Carroll (SASPR-Consultant)

                                        BANGLADESH
                              First Development Support Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. List of Persons Interviewed in Bangladesh                               36
Annex 9. Net Profit/(Losses) from SOEs 2000/01-2002/03 ($ million)               38
Annex 10. Outline of I-PRSP                                                      39
Annex 11. Borrower/Implementing Agency Comments                                  40

                                             Preface

        The Development Support Credit (DSC) to the Government of the People's Republic of
Bangladesh (GOB) in the amount of SDR217.6 million (US$300 million equivalent) was
approved on June 19, 2003 and was disbursed in a single tranche. The credit closed on December
31, 2003, which was the original closing date.

        This report was prepared by Richard Carroll (SASPR Consultant) and is based on
interviews with World Bank (headquarters and the country office), an ICR mission to Bangladesh
during May 9-16, 2004 and materials from the project file. The ICR focuses on the core
conditions of the DSC. It does not assess portions of the Government program outside the core
program such as reforms in the health and education sectors. The ICR does, however, consider
actions in the DSC-supported areas beyond project close, up to the date of this report.

        Christine Wallich is the Country Director, Sadiq Ahmed is the Sector Director, and Kapil
Kapoor is the Sector Manager for Bangladesh and was the task manager through October 2003.
Anthony Bottrill (Task Manager for the credit after October 2003) had overall responsibility for
monitoring the policy matrix for SAC3. From the Bangladesh office, Syed Nizamuddin (public
sector), Khurshid Alam (SOE reform), Muhammad Iqbal (energy and power), Syed Mynuddin
Hussain (Governance), Zaidi Sattar (Trade), and Salman Zaheer (utilities) provided input. From
headquarters, Sadiq Ahmed, Kapil Kapoor, Alma Kanani (public expenditure management) and
Penelope Brook (power sector) provided input to the ICR.

        A list of Government and Bank staff who were interviewed in Bangladesh is provided in
Annex 8. We would like to express our thanks for the excellent cooperation we received from the
Government in assessing the DSC operation. We are also grateful for the support of the Bank
office in Dhaka for arranging meetings and other assistance.

Project ID: P081845                                                  Project Name: Development Support Credit
Team Leader: Anthony Richard Howe Bottrill                           TL Unit: SASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Development Support Credit                               L/C/TF Number: IDA-37930
   Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                                         Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Banking (25%); General energy sector (25%); General industry and
                            trade sector (20%); Central government administration (20%); Law
                            and justice (10%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Debt management and fiscal substainability (P); Regulation and
                            competition policy (P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                            development (S); Administrative and civil service reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/25/2003                                     Effective: 06/23/2003                06/23/2003
     Appraisal: 04/17/2003                                         MTR: 11/01/2004                  11/01/2004
      Approval: 06/19/2003                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Christine I. Wallich                           Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Director:                Sadiq Ahmed                                    Sadiq Ahmed
Team Leader at ICR:             Anthony Bottrill                               Kapil Kapoor
ICR Primary Author:             Richard J. Carrol


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Setting for the Development Support Credit (DSC). Bangladesh is a densely populated
country of 135 million people. The structure of GDP is about half services and 25 percent each
for agriculture and manufacturing. The macro-economy achieved a 5 percent growth rate in the
1990s, improving from the 4 percent level in the 1980s. This growth rate was still significantly
below the 6-7 percent needed to reach Millenium Development Goals (MDG) for poverty
reduction. To reach the higher growth path key reforms were needed.


The setting for the DSC was characterized by a slowdown of reforms in the mid-1990s, with
deteriorating governance. State-owned enterprises were a continued fiscal drain and contingent
liabilities increased. Foreign exchange reserves dropped with the unfavorable external
environment and aftermath of September 11, 2001. These problems made more difficult the main
challenge for the economy of accelerating growth to a level that would employ Bangladesh's
growing population and reduce poverty.

The Government's strategy to meet this challenge was expressed in the I-PRSP's (A National
Strategy for Economic Growth Poverty Reduction and Social Development) three pillars:
Acceleration of Pro-Poor Growth, Promoting Good Governance, and Investing in Human
Development. The I-PRSP was presented to the Boards of the IDA and the IMF in May 2003.

The goal of the first pillar is to raise the economy's growth rate from about 5 percent per annum
to 6-7 percent, in order to attain the MDG poverty reduction target set for 2015. The key
building blocks of this strategy are a stable macroeconomic framework, with maintenance of low
inflation and sustainable fiscal deficits and external debt, and a sound and well-functioning
financial system that ensures that the poor have access to financial resources. The second pillar of
the Government's poverty reduction strategy aims at improving governance, which is a severe
impediment to current poverty reduction efforts. The third pillar recognizes the strong poverty
reducing effects of human capital development in Bangladesh, and emphasizes the Government's
strategy in the medium term, which is the development of basic capabilities and human resource
development of the poor population.

To support the Government's Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy, the Board of Directors
approved the Development Support Credit (DSC) of US$300 million equivalent (SDR217.6
million) on June 19, 2003. The DSC concentrated on the first two pillars of the Government
reform program. It was the first economy-wide adjustment-type operation in 10 years.

         Objective

The objectives of the DSC as stated in the Medium-Term Structural Reform Policy Matrix of the
Program Document are listed below. These are the objectives that were matched with core
conditionality. (Other objectives of the overall reform program not directly supported by the DSC included: (i)
Develop a proactive system of public administration (non-core for DSC, core for DSC 2 triggers); (ii) Improve the
availability and enhance the efficiency of telecommunication services; (iii) Improve the business environment and



                                                      - 2 -

competitiveness; (iv) Improve resource mobilization and expenditure management; (v) Improve the quality of
education services; and (vi) Ensure effective and equitable access to health services.)



1.       Stabilize the macroeconomic environment (core, but with the IMF taking the lead).
2.       Improve the governance of the financial system.
3.       Enhance overall accountability and transparency and reduce corruption.
4.       Reduce the financial hemorrhage caused by state-owned enterprises.
5.       Improve the availability and enhance the efficiency of the energy sector.

It is clear from these objectives that the main aims of DSC were to improve fiscal sustainability
and governance. The DSC objectives generally supported the first two pillars of the I-PRSP, and
were generally consistent with the I-PRSP Medium-Term Policy Matrix and the Country
Assistance Strategy Progress Report (CASPR-see section 3.3, June 30, 2003), all of which were
responsive to economic and social priorities. Exceptions included the adjustment of oil and gas
prices, though power prices were included as a reform in the I-PRSP matrix. The plan to adjust
oil and gas prices was included in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP). These price
adjustments proved highly problematic (see Sections 4.1 and 4.2).

3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions.

3.3 Original Components:
The specific components of the Medium-Term Structural Policy Reform Matrix that the DSC
supported were:

1.       Macroeconomic Management (satisfactory implementation under the IMF PRGF)
2.       Financial Sector (strengthen regulation and oversight)
3.       State-Owned Enterprises Reform (reduce budget drain)
4.       Energy Sector (pricing framework and establishing an energy regulator, etc.)
5.       Broad-based Governance (improve procurement and enhance public financial
accountability)

The DSC focused on a relatively narrow subset of the program laid out in the I-PRSP. Other
Bank operations, plus support from the wider donor community dealt with the health and
education portions of the I-PRSP agenda. In both sectors large programs were being developed.
The components were appropriate to the fulfillment of the project development objectives. For
example, the SOE component recognized that uneconomic power prices favored only the top
third of the population and were leading to unreliable electric supply, which discouraged
investment (see Section 3.5).

3.4 Revised Components:
No revisions.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR ­ Satisfactory. The DSC design dealt with priority issues for growth and emphasized fiscal
sustainability and governance. The measures focused on energy, banking sector and SOE


                                                        - 3 -

reforms. The energy sector infrastructure was relatively poor in Bangladesh and was rated by the
Global Competitiveness Report (from the World Economic Forum) as the most significant
infrastructure-related obstacle to investment in Bangladesh. The I-PRSP noted that a
well-functioning financial system with access to financial resources for the poor is essential to
poverty reduction. A 2000 World Bank report estimated that poor governance costs 2 to 3
percentage points in growth every year. This margin exceeds the difference between the
country's current growth path and the one it needs to be on to achieve MDGs on time.

The DSC program document presented four main risks and associated mitigation measures. The
main risks cited were: vested interests who would lose from improvements in governance and
could undermine political support, weak institutional and human capacity that would slow down
implementation, higher than expected reform costs to the budget if banking and SOE reforms
were to proceed at a slower pace, and continued depressed external environment which could
limit export and economic growth. These risks, the Program Document stated, were to be
mitigated by the fact that the Minister of Finance and Planning was a reform champion with an
established track record which included the implementation of reforms in the early 1990s. This
reform champion also had the support of the Prime Minister, and a group of reform-minded
leaders and bureaucrats who were working to build constituencies for reform. The Government
had also formed a committee of five Secretaries, embarked on a 100-day program immediately
after taking office to address the most urgent issues and conducted a full-scale I-PRSP process.

It is certainly important to have a reform champion, as has been seen in a number of countries. A
reform champion can triumph over typical reform obstacles such as weak implementation
capacity, which has characterized operations in Bangladesh in the past. Challenges from vested
interests may also slow reforms, despite high level Government commitment. Also, in Bangladesh
the pace of reform tends to slow relatively early in the election cycle as socio-political
considerations come to the fore. (Current reform delays are attributed in large measure to
elections that are two years away). The Bank is discovering these challenges to reform (e.g.,
delays in establishing the Anti-corruption commission and the Energy Regulatory Commission) as
it helps the Government revise and achieve DSC 2 reform triggers (see Table 2). One notable
area in the DSC was that of energy price adjustments. Given what has transpired since DSC
effectiveness, it was clearly ambitious for the Government to carry out these adjustments. Still,
the choice was between investing additional time in establishing a deeper commitment, which
might never have materialized, on one hand, and taking advantage of the window of opportunity
while a reform champion and favorable government are in place, on the other. The Bank chose
the latter, which was the right choice.

The program document cited the dialog between the Government and labor leaders as risk
mitigation for the retrenchment under SOE reform. This is an essential feature of any reforms that
entail significant retrenchment. In retrospect, in the case of fallout of the jute mills closure (riots
and political backlash from the opposition) and the general slowing of SOE reform, it is evident
that retrenchment-related opposition was not fully mitigated. Though the first three large jute
mills that were closed remained closed, three subsequent closed mills were reopened (Kulna).
The ICR also agrees with the QAG review (below) that the "claw back" clause that protects
against reform reversal was not a realistic form of risk mitigation.



                                                 - 4 -

A strength of the DSC was that it was a single tranche operation. This took into account Bank
experience in Bangladesh of weak implementation, in particular, that three multi-tranche
adjustment operations were cancelled before completion in the 1990s (the Jute Sector Adjustment
Credit, Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit and the Industrial Sector Credit 2). The
single tranche approach meant that the reforms had to be implemented in advance of the financial
assistance. The benefits from experience, intensive country dialog and the relevant design, in the
end, contributed to the achievement of a meaningful set of measures.

QAG ­ Satisfactory. The QAG commended the preparation and justification of the DSC, stating
that the Bank was properly taking advantage of the election of a reform-minded government. The
QAG panel did express a number of concerns including the insufficient attention to weak
implementation capacity, too close identification with a few key reformers, and lack of ownership
of the reform program beyond these key people. Despite these concerns, all assessment areas
were rated satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
This section reviews macroeconomic achievements and the outcomes of the DSC with respect to
the core project development objectives. The evaluation carries from the beginning of the DSC
dialog, about mid-2002, to the date of this ICR.

Core Objective 1: Stabilize the macroeconomic environment. (Satisfactory)

Macroeconomic performance has been essentially good and improved somewhat during and since
the DSC effectiveness, as Table 1 shows. Growth ranged from 4.4 to 5.9 percent during
2000-03, with a growth rate of 5.3 percent in 2003. Inflation remained low, between 1.6 and 4.4
percent, with the higher inflation rate reached in 2003.

On the fiscal side, the picture is bright. Both the overall and primary cash deficits continued to
shrink as a percentage of GDP, with further deficit reduction indicated for FY04. This is a large
improvement over FY02 when the Government embarked on the DSC (and PRGF) supported
reform agenda. Foreign direct investment remained weak at only 0.1 percent in 2002 and 0.2
percent in 2003, which is among the weakest in the world. Domestic private investment was
better, improving from 15.6 percent in 2000 to 16.5 percent in 2003. Export value, international
reserves and the current account balance also improved.




                                                 - 5 -

                      TABLE 1: Macroeconomic Indicators 2000-2003
 Indicators                                                     2000     2001   2002     2003
Real GDP Growth (% change)                                       5.9      5.3    4.4     5.3
CPI (%, annual average)                                          3.4      1.6    2.8     4.4
Official Unemployment rate (%)                                   3.7      n/a    n/a     n/a
Foreign Direct Investment (% of GDP)                             0.4      0.4    0.1     0.2
Private Investment (% of GDP)                                   15.6     15.8   16.8     16.5
Government Primary Cash Balance (% of GDP)                      -4.2     -3.5   -2.9     -1.7
Government Overall Cash Balance (% of GDP)                      -5.1     -5.1   -4.7     -3.5
Exchange Rate ­ Taka/US$ (end of period)                        51.0     57.0   57.9     58.5
Current Account Balance (% of GDP)                              -0.7     -2.2    0.6     0.4
Merchandise Exports (fob, US$ million)                          5,701   6,419   5,929   6,492
Gross Official International Reserves (US$ billion)              1.6      1.3    1.6     2.5
Gross Official International Reserves (months of imports of
goods & services)                                                1.9      1.7    1.8     2.9

Source: IMF, Development Policy Review

Objective 2:       Improve the governance of the financial system. (Satisfactory)

Governance of the financial system has been significantly improved through legislative changes
that strengthen the role of the central bank, both in the conduct of exchange rate and monetary
policy and in the supervision of banks. Bangladesh went to a floating rate in May 2003 and
decides on intervention currency and foreign reserve management. However, the latter is
basically market-determined now. A major example of the central bank's increased power is its
purview over the NCBs and SDBs that it gained from the amendments to the Banking Companies
Act, a core condition of the DSC.          Privatization or divestment of NCBs (DSC 2 triggers) has
been delayed by political opposition, but is essentially still on-track. NCB assets have decreased
from two-thirds of total financial sector assets three or four years ago, to about 40 percent
currently.

Objective 3: Enhance overall accountability and transparency and reduce corruption.
(Satisfactory)

The DSC supported the key elements of improved governance. The Government established a
plan for procurement reform, separated the accounting and audit functions, as well as made
progress in separating the judiciary from the executive branch. These are major steps toward
improved accountability and transparency, but require additional measures that are addressed in
the triggers for DSC 2 (see section 4.2 and Table 2).

The publication of procurement regulations greatly reduced confusion over procurement
procedures. There had been multiple sets of procurement guidelines in the Government. The
separation of the judicial and executive/administrative branches of government was ordered by the
Supreme Court in 1999. However, there have been repeated (19) delays in the Presidential
issuance of the necessary rules for the separation. The Judicial Services Commission was formed
and designated the lower judiciary as under the judicial rather than the civil service. The sticking
point is the status of the local Magistrates who generally prefer to remain as part of the
administrative civil service (see Section 4.2).



                                                         - 6 -

Objective 4: Reduce the financial hemorrhage caused by state-owned enterprises
(Satisfactory)

Through closure or privatization, SOE losses have declined for several years, 2000/01-02/03 (see
Annex 9), $458.5 million to $177.8 million, which is in part attributable to the DSC policy dialog.
In manufacturing, in particular, the reduction of SOE losses has been good, with a further
reduction indicated for FY04. Because of the lack of energy price adjustments (see Objective 5),
combined with the spike in energy prices, the overall SOE losses did increase in FY04
(preliminary data), along with the increase in losses of the Bangladesh Petroleum Company. This
shortcoming, however, is assessed as part of Objective 5 below, which specifically captures
energy price adjustments (or lack thereof), which is rated unsatisfactory. Given the good progress
in reducing SOE losses in all other areas, this objective is most appropriately rated as satisfactory.


During the DSC, the Government demonstrated its commitment to divesting itself from the
manufacturing sector. Most notable was the closure of three large, state-owned jute mills,
including the largest (Adamjee, which was losing an estimated $15-20 million per year) with over
25,000 workers. Although severance costs were quite high ($70-80 million for Adamjee alone
and approaching $200 million overall), long term savings will far outweigh the short-term costs.
Since the closures, the value of annual production and exports of jute have nearly maintained
levels of recent years, indicating that there had been a large excess capacity in the sector.

There was concern that the Privatization Commission has had limited effectiveness, in part due to
the fact that it deals only with operating SOEs, while the line ministries, which have limited
expertise in privatization, are handling the closed SOEs. In response, the Government is adopting
guidelines to delineate the responsibilities of the Privatization Commission and line Ministries for
the liquidation of the closed SOEs.

Objective 5: Improve the availability and enhance the efficiency of the energy sector.
(Moderately unsatisfactory)

The reform of this sector is particularly important to fiscal sustainability because losses and theft
in this sector are substantial. It is also important to reduce losses and theft in order to gain public
compliance with paying cost recovery tariffs (where individual customers pay higher rates). While
some steps were taken to achieving these objectives, implementation has fallen far short. The first
power tariff adjustment was made in September 2003, but no further adjustment has been made.

The first step towards an Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) has been taken. However,
operationalizing it is far behind schedule. Setting up the ERC will also mean progress toward
better regulation in an important sector of the economy.

Most petroleum price adjustments were not implemented and so the outcome of reduced public
borrowing was not achieved. Petroleum prices are currently 20-35 percent below prices indicated
by the DSC formula. There were some price adjustments, however. For example, the price of



                                                   - 7 -

kerosene was increased by 17 percent, though that does not represent a full price adjustment.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Table 2 provides a summary of outputs under DSC, which consists of prior actions for Board
presentation. The table also includes the original indicative triggers from the Program Document
as well as the revised triggers for a planned DSC 2 for FY05. These triggers continue to be
revised to ensure relevance and feasibility of implementation.

Macroeconomic Management. This component was mainly the domain of the IMF. As section
4.1 shows, stabilization results were reasonably good through the end of 2003, with some concern
of inflation inching upward, though it was a manageable 4.4 percent for the year. The IMF
completed reviews of the PRGF in January and May of 2004, which confirmed that the program
was on-track.

Financial Sector (strengthen regulation and oversight). The Government passed the required
amendments to the Bank Order of 1972. This measure gave the Bangladesh Central Bank greater
authority on exchange rate and monetary policy, as well as bank supervision. The amendments to
the Bank Companies Act of 1991 placed Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCBs) and Specialized
Development Banks (SDBs) under the purview of the central bank. The Government also took a
number of actions to remedy the problem of NCBs, specifically their high level of non-performing
loans, general inefficiency and technical insolvency. These measures are identified in Table 2.
There has been delayed progress in the implementation of the triggers for DSC 2. The sale of the
Rupali Bank, an NCB, has been delayed from July to December 2004. The Agrani Bank is
planned to be under a private management contract supported by the Enterprise Growth and Bank
Modernization Project--EG&BM, under preparation). The Janata Bank is planned to be
divested by the end of 2006. Securing management support for the Sonali and Janata Banks has
been delayed, but actions on moving forward with the Resolution plans for all NCBs have been
agreed. The Government does not currently plan to divest in part or full the Sonali Bank as
originally agreed. The new positions are the result of stronger than envisioned political
opposition. The positions will not threaten the program if measures to contain NPLs and
ring-fence the Sonali Bank are taken.

State-Owned Enterprises Reform (reduce budget drain). The Government has been fairly
successful in continuing the implementation of the hard budget constraint and Annex 9 shows
overall SOE losses (budget drain) in steady decline during FY2000/01-2002/03. GOB also closed
28 of 130 loss-making SOEs in 2002/03, exceeding the 15 agreed to under the DSC. The
Government did approve a new Privatization Policy, but did not approve the necessary draft
regulations to implement the Privatization Act. The GOB plans to relinquish most of its
ownership in economic activities, but for political reasons, will remain involved in fertilizer supply
and sugar production. If the Government continues its progress in divestiture in other activities,
the Bank is flexible on the subject of fertilizer and sugar. The largest closure was the Adamjee
Jute mill with 25,000 workers retrenched.

The Government decided that the Privatization Commission would handle only the SOEs with
ongoing operations. This decision undermines the authority of the Privatization Commission
because most enterprises are closed prior to privatization. The line ministries are supposed to


                                                  - 8 -

deal with the closed SOEs, however, these line ministries are ill-equipped to handle privatization.
For the DSC 2 triggers, the GOB is behind in the target to close 10 enterprises for 2003/04 and
retire at least 25,000 workers. Other triggers that are behind schedule include the downsizing of a
number of state industry groups such as Bangladesh Agriculture Development Corporation
(BADC), Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC), Bangladesh Sugar & Food
Industries Corporation (BSFIC), and the significant reduction of budget transfers and borrowing
of all SOEs. However, approximately 15,500 workers are being retrenched from these companies
during FY04. In addition, borrowing for loss-making manufacturing SOEs are limited only to
their normal commercial operations and exclude any rehabilitation or expansion programs.

Energy Sector (pricing framework and establishing an energy regulator, etc.). The Bank
had been pushing for many years for an energy sector regulatory framework. Under DSC, the
Bank supported Government attempts at ambitious and fundamental reforms. The time did
appear right for such an attempt, especially with a reform minded government in power. Some
major reforms were achieved. A new petroleum, gas and power pricing framework was adopted
that would increase efficiency and viability of energy sector enterprises and improve service to
consumers. The first tariff adjustments were agreed and an Energy Regulatory Commission
(ERC) Act to establish an independent energy regulator was passed. In addition, an energy sector
reform plan was adopted. The oil and gas tariff adjustments were the most difficult of the energy
reforms, and it was agreed that actual price adjustments would be deferred until September 2003.
However, as mentioned in Section 4.1, the oil and gas adjustments were not made as agreed in
September or in March 2004. The power adjustment for September 2003 was made, but the one
scheduled for March was not (see section 4.1). A substantial, but partial, adjustment was made to
the price of kerosene, resulting in a 17 percent increase.

Because of the failure of the Government to meet its commitment on oil and gas price
adjustments, DSC energy price adjustment triggers had to be repeated as triggers for DSC 2. The
Government will need to publicize the tariff formula and estimate budget costs of non-adjustment
of energy prices. DSC 2 triggers also include hiring consultants by June 2004 to prepare Gas
Strategy and Master Plan, prepare privatization of Padma Oil and appoint chairman and board
members to the ERC in a transparent process.

Broad-based Governance. The Government fully implemented the core conditions and is
making progress as well in the broader governance program. In procurement, the Cabinet
approved the Technical Assistance Project Pro Forma (TAPP-a template in Bangladesh for
preparing project proposals), which charts procurement reform, and The Public Procurement
Regulations 2003 was drafted which greatly clarifies procurement rules. The Cabinet also
approved legislation establishing an independent Anti-corruption Commission. The Government
also continued the process of separating audit and accounting functions, which is now complete.
The Government has continued progress in implementing the Supreme Court directive on
separation of the judiciary and executive branches of government. The Government promulgated
rules in January 2004 establishing a Judicial Service Commission (JSC) and has appointed
members of the commission. The Government still needs to establish a Judicial Pay Commission.
A key issue to be resolved is whether magistrates should continue in the civil or judicial service.
The Government and the Bank must proceed with caution, given the negative experience in



                                                 - 9 -

Pakistan when magistrates were stripped of their judicial role. Police corruption escalated and the
citizenry retaliated with violence. The Bank Judicial reform project is following up on this matter
as well.

The governance measures require follow up, which is specified under the DSC 2 triggers, to
realize the full benefits. This follow up includes the appointment of the ACC chairman and
members and sharing the draft procurement law with development partners.

                   TABLE 2: Overview of DSC Components and Major Conditions


      Status of Pre-Board              Indicative Triggers for DSC 2           Latest Triggers for DSC 2
            Conditions                    from Program Document

         Macroeconomic
    Framework-Satisfactory

Satisfactory implementation of the     Satisfactory implementation of the     Satisfactory implementation of the
agreed macroeconomic framework         agreed macroeconomic framework         agreed macroeconomic framework
under the PRGF (Ongoing).              under the PRGF.                        under the PRGF

 Financial Sector-Satisfactory

Pass amendments to Bangladesh          Privatize Rupali Bank (delayed to       Complete audit of NCBs. Award
Bank Order, 1972, granting             June 2005)                              contract to Financial Advisor for sale
operational autonomy to Bangladesh                                             of Rupali Bank.
Bank on exchange rate policy,
monetary policy, bank supervision      Secure Management support for           Award management contract for
and its personnel affairs (Done)       Janata and Sonali banks                 Agrani and advisory contract for
                                                                               Sonali Bank. Retender advisory
Pass amendments to Banking                                                     contract for Janata Bank.
Companies Act, 1991, removing the
provisions that kept NCBs and SDBs                                             Announce resolution strategy for all
outside the purview of Bangladesh                                              NCBs. (Done)
Bank (Done)
                                       Issue prudential regulations on capital Cabinet approval of draft legislation
Actions to address the NCB problem,    adequacy, interest income recognition,  amending prudential regulations on
including:                             loan classification and provisioning,   capital adequacy, interest income
·         Select auditors to audit the exposure limits, consistent with        recognition, loan classification and
four NCBs (Done).                      international practice.                 provisioning, exposure limits,
·         Prepare a dated action plan                                          consistent with international
for contracting new professional                                               standards.
management for one NCB (Done)
·         Further progress in
rationalizing the branch structure of
NCBs by eliminating duplicate
branches (Ongoing)
·         Announce its intention to
privatize Rupali Bank and prepare a
dated action plan (Done)




                                                            - 10 -

       Status of Pre-Board              Indicative Triggers for DSC 2            Latest Triggers for DSC 2
             Conditions                    from Program Document

   SOE Reform-Satisfactory

Strict adherence to the hard-budget     Transfer to the private sector all those Transfer 13 SOEs to buyers for which
constraint agreed in the                SOEs whose privatization has been        LOIs have been issued. Issue tender
macro-framework (ongoing)               processed and complete next phase of     notices for sale of 5 more SOEs.
                                        privatization or closures of SOEs        (Done)
Cabinet Approval of new                 engaged in manufacturing activity.
Privatization Policy (Done)
But did not approve draft regulations   Complete preparatory activity to         Downsize BADC, BCIC, BSFIC and
to implement the Privatization Act      privatize Oil Marketing Companies,       BWDB. [RD to advise on fertilizer,
and directed that closed SOEs would     and restructure and downsize BADC,       seed and sugar subsidies.]
be handled by the line ministries, not  BCIC, BSFIC.
the Privatization Commission.
                                        Implement International Accounting
Closure of at least 15 enterprises      Standards in all SOEs.                   Reduce SOE financial losses
(Done)

   Energy Sector-Moderately
           Unsatisfactory

Adopt new (interim) petroleum, gas      Complete the restructuring of the        Reduce Government payables to
and power pricing framework, to         debts and arrears of the power sector    energy utilities to not more than 3
ensure efficiency and financial         and adopt a financial action plan to     months of bills. Establish a
viability of sector enterprises, while  prevent the growth of new arrears;       mechanism to prevent new
also protecting consumers from sector   begin publishing key performance         Government arrears. Agree action
inefficiencies and ensuring that the    indicators of sector enterprises.        plan to reduce private arrears to
poor can afford at least a basic level                                           energy utilities. Publish financial
of energy services (Done)                                                        results for all major energy utilities.

Agree first tariff adjustments          Complete the corporatization of at       Corporatize at least 2 urban power
consistent with the new energy          least two distribution companies         distribution (excl. DESCO). (Done).
pricing framework (Done)                (excluding DESCO).

Pass an Energy Regulatory               Complete the establishment of the        Appoint chairman and two members
Commission Act establishing an          Energy Regulatory Commission and         of Energy Regulatory Commission.
independent Energy Regulatory           issuance of priority regulations         Gazette date for coming into force of
Commission with authority over the                                               the ERC Act. Announce interim
economic regulation of the power and                                             arrangements for Government to
gas sectors, including the authority to Completion of restructuring of           continue to set tariffs until ERC is
set regulated tariffs (Done)            petroleum and natural gas sectors,       able to set them.
                                        including inter alia unbundling,
Show continued improvement in           consolidation of all gas transmission    Implement agreed pricing policies for
electricity billings (reduction in      system in GTCL, financial                power, gas and petroleum. Publish
system loses) and collections from      restructuring, and all other related     cost estimates and price adjustments
public and private consumers,           steps.                                   quarterly in accordance with policies.
resulting from an aggressive                                                     [Letter required from MEMR and
collection and disconnection drive      Complete pre-privatization work for      commitment in LDP.]
(Ongoing)                               divestment of one OMC and ERL, and
                                        gas distribution companies.              Seek Expressions of Interest from
Adopt an Energy Sector reform plan                                               consultants to help prepare gas
covering the next 3 years (Done)                                                 strategy and master plan. (Done)




                                                             - 11 -

      Status of Pre-Board             Indicative Triggers for DSC 2            Latest Triggers for DSC 2
            Conditions                   from Program Document

 Broad-based Governance ­
           Satisfactory


Cabinet approval of TAPP laying out   Appoint a Board and a chief executive     Gazette a date no later than June 30,
scope and sequencing of procurement   for the independent anti-corruption       2004, for coming into force of the
reform and commence                   commission and make the commission        Anti-Corruption Act. Set up Selection
implementation (Done)                 operational.                              Committee. Allocate budget for
                                                                                Commission for FY05.
Cabinet approval of legislation
establishing an independent           Publish a time-bound national             Cabinet endorsement of broad
Anti-Corruption Commission (Done)     anti-corruption action plan, endorsed     anti-corruption strategy to include,
                                      by cabinet.                               among other things, restricting NCBs'
Continue the process of separating                                              lending, loan recoveries from
audit and accounts (Ongoing)                                                    defaulters, downsizing SOEs,
                                                                                liberalizing trade, modernizing tax
Continued progress in implementing                                              administration especially Customs,
the Supreme Court directive on                                                  improving public expenditure
separation of judiciary and executive Identify and initiate actions to increase management and accounting,
(Ongoing)                             the independence of the Auditor           strengthening the role of the
                                      General.                                  Controller & Auditor General,
                                                                                tracking expenditure leakages,
                                      Adopt new standardized bidding            tightening public procurement,
                                      documents and revised procurement         establishing the independent
                                      rules and ensure compliance.              Anti-Corruption Commission and
                                                                                improving oversight of major sectoral
                                                                                spending programs.
                                      Establish public accounts committee.
                                                                                Prepare strategic plan for Public
                                                                                Accounts Committee.

                                                                                Extend merit-based promotions to
                                                                                Deputy Secretaries and above. Agree
                                                                                to formation of "clusters" of ministries
                                                                                for Senior Civil Service Pool. (Done)

                                                                                Create Career Planning and Training
                                                                                Wing in the Establishment Ministry.
                                                                                (Done)

                                                                                Continue outsourcing of public
                                                                                services [Data?]

                                                                                Issue and mandate public procurement
                                                                                regulations. (Done)

                                      Initiate preparation of Freedom of        Appoint members of Judicial Service
                                      Information Act.                          Commission. (Done)




                                                           - 12 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Modest. The DSC conditions emphasized institutional measures, particularly in the area of
governance. Basic governance-improving measures were implemented (auditing, accounting,
procurement, separation of executive and judiciary), which is significant institutional progress.
The second stage of reform is now needed and there have been delays. Realistically, some of the
measures furthered by the DSC are long term efforts that a DSC cannot be expected to see
through fully. It will take additional similar operations for new institutions to be fully functioning.
In addition, Bangladesh does not have a strong track record of reform, so long-term structural
measures may take even longer than in most countries. This track record also dictates caution in
assessing the IDI.

An example is the establishment of the ERC. The Government agrees with the need for such an
institution and has passed the needed legislation, but it has been very slow in appointing a board,
much less hiring staff to run the ERC. Adjustments to energy prices were supposed to have been
automatic at this stage, but were deferred, then not implemented. The institutional mechanism is
there and there needs to be at least some progress in calculating the price adjustments and being
transparent about the budgetary cost if the adjustments are not made.

Financial and central banking reforms have been significant and, eventually, substantial IDI is
expected. For now, the Government needs to move forward steadily to divest the NCBs. SOE
reform has also slowed down, but will yield continued fiscal savings if, for example, the
Privatization Commission becomes more effective and is allowed to handle closed SOEs. For
now its IDI is modest.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The increase in oil prices made it difficult to follow through on the agreed power and oil and gas
price adjustments under the new pricing framework. The power sector tariff was adjusted in June
prior to effectiveness, but the planned September 2003 and March 2004 adjustments have not
taken place. None of the oil and gas price adjustments have taken place, though the kerosene
price has been adjusted upward by 17 percent. The spike in the international fuel prices would
mean a significantly higher income impact on the population of a price adjustment.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government has had to cope with a significant level of political opposition to some of the
reforms. It has chosen to slow down implementation, as in the case of bank privatization, and
convert full SOE closure to partial closure. The election cycle also appears to have had an effect
on the pace of reform. The anticipation of the early 2006 elections seem to have already



                                                     - 13 -

increased the level of political caution and slowed down implementation of the DSC 2 triggers.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
No significant factors.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total original credit amount was SDR217.6 million (US$300 million equivalent), which was
fully was disbursed. The credit was made on standard IDA terms with a term of 40 years and a
10-year grace period. The borrower was the People's Republic of Bangladesh.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the DSC-supported reform program is rated likely for the overall program
for the immediate and medium terms. There are, however, significant concerns and some reform
measures appear more sustainable than others. As stated, the flow of the reform progress appears
to hinge on the election cycle. Elections are slated for 2006 and the cycle begins about 18 months
before the actual election, so reforms will continue, but most likely at a gradually slower pace
until the election. The rising level of political opposition to some of the reforms (e.g., the closure
of the three jute mills in Kulna) has led to delays in financial sector and SOE reforms as noted
above.

There is some concern about the sustainability of further SOE closures because of the
Government option for partial vs. full closures, which may lead to a revolving door of
retrenchment, then new hires. The three jute mills that were closed in Kulna were reopened
because of labor unrest and political backlash. The Government is aware of the concern and has
assured the Bank that partial closures will lead to full closures of loss-making SOEs and that
already retrenched workers will never be rehired. There is a freeze on hiring workers in SOEs
and new recruitments require clearances from the MOF and the Ministry of Establishment.

The Bank has anticipated potential social problems that come with large retrenchments. If the
released workers squander their severance pay, they will be vulnerable. To reduce this risk, there
is a micro-enterprise and counseling component ($10 million) financed by DFID under the Bank
financed EGBM project. The EGBM is a hybrid project that also funds further severance
payments.

Many of the indicative triggers for a follow-up DSC 2 have been met. The financial sector and
governance sections of the reform program appear to be progressing steadily. However, in other
areas, particularly in the energy sector and, to a lesser extent, SOEs, progress needs to accelerate.
Given that the energy price adjustments were not made, the Bank would like to see, at a
minimum, a calculation of the tariff adjustment under the agreed formula and a transparent
estimate of the fiscal impact of not carrying through the price adjustments.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Country Assistance Strategy envisioned several successive operations similar to the DSC that
would broaden and deepen the reform program. Currently, the DSC 2 is the planned next step
with detailed, but flexible triggers. The original plan was to meet DSC 2 triggers in time for an



                                                    - 14 -

FY04 Board date. However, the Government did not achieve sufficient progress by the end of
the fiscal year and needed to meet a number of the triggers. With the Bank and the Borrower's
accumulated knowledge from the DSC, the DSC 2 triggers have been revised somewhat to reflect
evolving conditions (see Table 2).

The technical assistance project for the energy sector is expected to help sustain energy reforms
and improve efficiency and effectiveness through capacity building in the sector. One concern is
that the weak civil service incentive package will make it difficult to attract the high caliber
personnel needed to staff the ERC. The EGBM project is expected to support financial sector
reform by preparing NCBs for privatization. The Economic Management Technical Assistance
project (EMTA) will help deepen implementation capacity in financial accounting and auditing. A
large unallocated portion of the EMTA may be used for strengthening new institutions initiated
under the DSC, such as the ACC and the ERC.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. In the face of risks of lack of familiarity with adjustment operations (DSC was the
first economy-wide operation) and political opposition, the Bank seized the opportunity for
progress in some key structural areas. The design of the DSC was a fairly focused core program
that emphasized governance and fiscal responsibility. The quality at entry was assessed as
satisfactory by both the QAG and the ICR. One lending issue that has not been fully justified and
was raised by the QAG was the rather abrupt increase in the credit amount from US$200 million
to US$300 million, which was never fully explained. The Bank took measures to ensure
Borrower buy-in of DSC 2 triggers, including detailed discussions and negotiations of individual
triggers at top levels, including the Prime Minister and at the MOF and the Region, and public
dissemination of the revised triggers.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Bank has been active in all reform areas. It has worked with the Government
to identify needed actions and has been pushing for progress consistently throughout the DSC and
beyond. With active participation of the country director the triggers for DSC 2 have been
reviewed and modified to increase borrower buy-in and enhance implementation. The DSC 2 has
been appropriately delayed until FY05 pending satisfactory progress with respect to the revised
triggers. The Bank is showing reasonable flexibility on the follow-up program in the energy and
financial sector (revised divestiture dates) that will ensure continuation of Bank support for the
reform program. The Bank is also buttressing its support for the broader I-PRSP agenda with its
education and health sector initiatives. Monitoring indicators were established and tracked with
Bank assistance and included regular updating of a detailed supervision matrix. However, the
Bank could increase efforts to document its supervision in the Project Status Reports (PSRs) as
only one was completed during the course of this operation. This PSR was not detailed, and did
not cover outstanding issues such as energy price adjustments.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. On balance, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Also, the Bank
prepared and supervised the project rather inexpensively, $174,500 of total costs for a $300



                                                  - 15 -

million loan (Annex 4).

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The reform champion at the Ministry of Finance and Planning spearheaded a
program based on the Government I-PRSP and supported by the DSC. The Borrower, like the
Bank, perceived an opportunity to achieve significant structural reforms that had been discussed
for a number of years. The Borrower agreed to an ambitious program. As Borrower familiarity
with the nature of an adjustment operation increased, it could make more strategic decisions to
increase feasibility of implementation. For example, on NCB divestiture, the Government decided
to begin with the smaller of the four NCBs, Rupali Bank, and end with the largest and most
difficult, Sonali. In this way, the Government increased the chance of a successful corporatization
and divestiture that would pave the way for future NCB divestitures.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The GOB carried out the DSC conditions as agreed with no waivers. The program
was ambitious program and included the closure of three large jute mills that required the
retrenchment of approximately 30,000 workers, which was previously politically unfeasible to
implement.    The one major shortcoming was the Government's failure to implement the energy
price adjustments that the Bank agreed to defer until after credit disbursement.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. Implementing agencies had varying degrees of performance. The Privatization
Commission did not live up to expectations partly due to the fact that it has not dealt with closed
SOEs. The Central Bank has improved its performance with its additional authority in bank
supervision and monetary and exchange rate policy, with macro-stabilization largely successful.
IAs also successfully divested 25 percent of total NCB assets in a two year period. Overall, IA
performance has been satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. Though implementation of the program slowed after effectiveness and loan
disbursement, the DSC conditions were successfully implemented (except for the deferred energy
price adjustments) and overall Borrower performance is satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

A DSC-type operation is not the best vehicle to achieve long-term structural change, but it
can be a good catalyst to initiate it. An example is the energy reforms. These had been
discussed with the Government for a long time, but through the DSC, the pricing framework and
the ERC Act were actually passed. Clearly issues remain that other support and dialog will have
to help resolve.

Likewise, a DSC can serve a the final push to implement other reforms that have been on
the agenda for a long time. An example is the closure of the Jute mills that were costing the
government over $100 million in losses annually. The Bank had an open and long-standing offer
to the Government that if it did decide to close down the high loss jute mills, then the Bank would
provide substantial assistance for retrenchment. The Government was encouraged to move



                                                - 16 -

forward and close the jute mills because of the availability of the $300 million of budget support
from DSC.

Triggers need to be flexible to incorporate evolving priorities and additional ESW/AAA.
The triggers for the follow-on DSC 2 were relevant to deepening the program, but later needed
significant revisions to reflect evolving conditions.

Greater mutual reinforcement of the Bank and Fund programs (overlap between policy
matrix and Letter of Intent) might have averted the reform slowdown to some extent.
There was little overlap between the programs of the two institutions. The Bank might have had
a stronger hand in some areas, such as energy pricing, if the IMF had had cross conditionality.

The Bank has to be careful in its conditionality not to put Governments in an inferior
position in dealing with contractors. In the case of time bound conditions such as the awarding
of the financial advisory contract for NCBs, the contractor may take opportunities to increase
fees.

The Bank needs to keep in mind a realistic timeframe for restructuring of the financial
sector. The current Bank timeframe for Bangladesh for public sector bank restructuring is about
4 years, whereas in Pakistan, as a comparison, it took almost 10 years for a similar financial
restructuring to take place. A major NCB privatization/divestiture each calendar year is
ambitious.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Additional Annex 11.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.




10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                 - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

DSC I core conditions apply to June 2003, DSC II triggers apply to June 2004, and the planned
DSC III (or other operations) apply to June 2005. In all cases, core conditions and triggers are in
bold.




                                              - 18 -

- 19 -

- 20 -

- 21 -

- 22 -

- 23 -

- 24 -

- 25 -

- 26 -

- 27 -

- 28 -

- 29 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                      Appraisal    Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                       Estimate     Estimate /a      Appraisal
             Project Cost By Component                US$ million   US$ million
BOP/Budget Support                                           300.0           300.0         100%

Total Costs                                                  300.0           300.0         100%

Total Financing Required                                     300.0           300.0         100%




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

Expenditure Category           ICB      Procurement    Method        N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                            NCB           Other /a
1. BOP/Budget Support                                      300.0                   300.0
   Total Costs                                             300.0                   300.0
    Total Financed by IDA                                  300.0                   300.0
/a Or SDR217.6 million.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
   Expenditure Category        ICB      Procurement Method           N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                            NCB        Other /b
1. BOP/Budget Support                                      300.0                   300.0
Total Costs                                                300.0                   300.0
Total Financed by IDA                                      300.0                   300.0
/b Or SDR 217.6 million.

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
     Component            Appraisal Estimate              Actual          Percentage of Appraisal /a

                                IDA                        Govt.               CoF.IDAGovt.CoF.IDA
                                                                                    GovtCoF.
BOP/Budget Support              300.0                                           300.0100.0




                                             - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
 Stage of Project Cycle                        No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                              (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year       Count              Specialty                          Progress          Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               December 2002                     5    TTL, E, En, F, SOE                       S                  S
               February 2003                     4    TTL, En, F, E                            S                  S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               May 2003                          4    TTL, E, En, F                            S                  S


 Supervision
               July 2003                         4    TTL, E, En, F                            S                  S
               September 2003                    4    TTL, E, En, F                            S                  S

 ICR
               May 2004                          1     E                                       S                  S

TTL-Task Team Leader, E-Economist, En-Energy specialist, P-Privatization specialist, SOE-SOE specialist,
F-Financial specialist
In addition, there was ongoing daily supervision of DSC through the Bangladesh field office that is not reflected in
this table.



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     27.76                            122.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation               (included above)                 (included above)
  Supervision                                    10.12                             32.4
  ICR                                               5.4                            20.2
  Total                                          43.28                          *174.8
* Includes labor, trave and other costs.




                                                       - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for The People's Republic of Bangladesh, June 30,
2003.

Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment of the IPRSP,
May 29, 2003.

Program Document For a Proposed Development Support Credit in the Amount of SDR 217.6
million (US$300 million equivalent) to The People's Republic of Bangladesh, May 22, 2003.

Development Credit Agreement for DSC, June 20, 2003.

IMF Staff Reports

Project Files, Project Status Report, BTOs, A-Ms, etc.




                                              - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. List of Persons Interviewed in Bangladesh

Ministry of Finance

Mr. Zakir Ahmed Khan
Secretary
Finance Division

Dr. Chowdhury Saleh Ahmed
Director General
Monitoring Cell, Finance Division

Mr. Mohammad Tareque
Joint Secretary
Budget

A.Z.M. Shafiqul Alam
Deputy Secretary
Economic Relations Division

Md. Aminul Islam Bhuiyan
Additional Secretary
Economic Relations Division

Dr. Quazi Mesbahuddin Ahmed
Member, GED
Planning Commission

Cabinet

Dr. Saadat Husain
Cabinet Secretary
Cabinet Division

Bangladesh Bank

Dr. Fakhruddin Ahmed
Governor

Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral Resources

A.S.M. Humayun Kabir
P.S. to Secretary
Power Division




                                           - 36 -

EU

Marianne Wenning
Head of Unit
Multisector Thematic Support

IMF

Marijn Verhoeven
Resident Representative

World Bank

Md. Iqbal, Energy Specialist
Raihan Elahi, Energy Sector
Salman Zaheer, Lead Utilities Specialist
G. M. Khurshid Alam, Sr. Private Sector Development Specialist
Syed Mynuddin Hussain, Legal Consultant
Anthony Richard Howe Bottrill, TTL Macro
Syed Nizamuddin, Senior Economist PREM (SOEs, pricing, other)
Zaidi Sattar, Senior Economist PREM (Trade)




                                            - 37 -

Additional Annex 9. Net Profit/(Losses) from SOEs 2000/01-2002/03 ($ million)


CORPORATION                                                         2000-01   2001-02   2002-03

MANUFACTURING:
Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation (BTMC)                           -7.89     -8.01     -6.51
Bangladesh Steel and Engineering Corporation (BSEC)                    0.03      2.18      2.32
Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation (BSFIC)              -8.08    -10.96    -13.92
Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC)                    -26.73    -19.65    -14.84
Bangladesh Forest Industries Development Corporation (BFIDC)          -2.62     -2.58      0.69
Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation (BJMC)                             -65.58    -50.39    -25.41

Sub-total                                                           -110.87     -89.4    -57.67

OTHERS:
Utilities:
Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Mineral Corporation (BOGMC)                   33.79     34.21     43.55
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)                            -79.85    -74.78     -2.42
Dhaka Electric Supply Authority (DESA)                               -63.69    -79.08    -49.81
Chittagong Water and Sewerage Authority (CWASA)                       -0.97     -0.55     -0.35
Dhaka Water and Sewerage Authority (DWASA)                              0.3      2.92      6.47
Commercial
Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC)                               -266.2   -111.31   -149.26
Bangladesh Jute Corporation (BJC)                                      0.07      0.04      0.02
Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB)                                1.37     11.52     -5.18
Transport and Communication                                             4.6     23.41     23.23
Agriculture and Fisheries                                             -4.34     -5.05     -5.21
Construction                                                           4.73      2.87      1.19
Service and other sectors                                             22.52     20.42     17.64

Sub-total                                                           -347.66   -175.34   -120.11

Grand total                                                         -458.52   -264.74   -177.78
Source: Monitoring Cell, Finance Division




                                                             - 38 -

Additional Annex 10. Outline of I-PRSP

Accelerating pro-poor growth

·      A stable macroeconomic environment
·      Use the private sector as the engine of growth
·      Establish a sound and well-functioning financial system and ensure the poor's access to
financial services
·      Take advantage of opportunities of globalization
·      Develop rural areas and accelerate rural non-farm growth
·      Create conditions for expanding manufacturing
·      Improve infrastructure services

Promoting good governance

·      Create a competitive environment across all segments of society
·      Establish and enforce clear rules and regulations for public sector administration
·      Promote the participation of civil society and vulnerable groups

Investing in human development

·      Targeted public expenditures in health, nutrition and education
·      Improved incentives for public service providers
·      Expand access of the poor to public health services
·      Introduce a national nutrition program to address malnutrition of children under two as
       well as pregnant and lactating mothers (provision of food supplements and health and
       nutrition counseling)
·      Improve quality and access of education for the poor

Promoting women's advancement

·      Promote women's literacy, property rights, employment and credit access
·      Combat high maternal mortality and violence against women
·      Promote formal equality, affirmative action and a women-friendly institutional
environment overall.

Ensuring Social Protection for risk coping and insurance

·      Improve social safety nets
·      Address the vulnerabilities of the "new poor"
·      Develop social solidarity
·      Risk insurance (mitigation)




                                               - 39 -

Additional Annex 11. Borrower/Implementing Agency Comments




                                       - 40 -

- 41 -

- 42 -

