Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ck /Z5t9-W
Report No. 5327-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHA
ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
February 27, 1985
Urban Division
Western Africa Projects Department
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =         Cedi (¢)
US$1.00              =         ¢ 50.00
¢ 1.00               =         US$0-02
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)          =         0.62  mile
1 meter (m)               =         3.28  feet
1 millimeter (mm)                   0.039 inch
1 square kilometer (km2) =          0.39  square mile
b hectare (ha)            =         2.47  acres
1 square meter (m2)       =        10.76  square feet
1 metric ton (t)          =         2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)           =         2.205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC       =    Accra City Council
ADRU      =    Accra District Roads Unit
CIDA      =    Canadian International Development Agency
GHA            Ghana Highway Authority
GIMPA     =    Ghana Institute of Management and Public
Administration
GTZ       =    Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(FRG)
KfW       =    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (FRG)
LGTS      =    Local Government Training School
LVB            Lands Valuation Board
MLG       =    Ministry of Local Government
MRH       =    Ministry of Roads and Highways
MWH            Ministry of Works and Housing
ODA       =    Overseas Development Administration
ROW            Right of Way
SCC       =    Staffordshire County Council
TSC       =    Technical Services Center
VIP       =    Ventilated Improved Pit
WFP       =    World Food Program



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
GHANA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE...................................   i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..................................        iii
I.   URBAN SECTOR .....................................   1
A.  Accra ..................................1 
B. Urban Institutions         ..1................ 
Institutional Reorganization ..................... .   2
C.  Sector Problems ..................................  3
Deteriorated Road and Drainage Network       . .    3
Poor Infrastructure in Residential Areas    ..    4
Institutional Weaknesses and Need for Training....  4
Deteriorated Municipal Finances ...................    5
II.   BENEFICIARY AGENCIES ..................................  5
A.  Ministry of Works and Housing (MW) .      ..............  5
B.  Ministry of Local Government (MLG)        .     .      8
C.  Accra City Council (ACC) ..........................    8
D.  Accra District Roads Unit (ADRU)          .     .      9
III. THE PROJECT.l0
III.  TEPOCT...........................................  1
A. Origin and Objectives                . .               10
Background ........................................ 10
Project Justification and Rationale for Bank Group
Involvement                  . .     11
Project Objectives and Description        .     .     12
B. Summary Description                ... .    13
C.  Cost Estimates ................ ...................  14
Project Costs and Financing            .      .       14
D.  Financing Plan and Funds Flow           .      .      16
E. Detailed Description ..      . ........................,.18
Institutional Reform and Policy Measures..            18
Infrastructure Rehabilitation     .     .             19
Resource Mobilization   .           .20
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Gaana in June 1984, consisting of Messrs. B. Boldrick (mission leader-
WAPUR), J. Pettigrew (WUD), A. Faiz (WAPDR), Ms. S. Snell (WAPUR) and
Messrs. S. Keith and D. Ossen (CONS). The mission was assisted by
Mr. M. Simpson (Staffordshire County Council-UK). Messrs. H. Young and
T. Pankal (WAPT1) reviewed the highway component of the project and
Mr. D. Howarth (WAPWS) reviewed the water supply elements. The report
was typed by Mrs. T. C. Tran (WAPUR). Mrs. A. Artaza (WAPUR) assisted
in the preparation of cost tables and annexes.
IThis doumnt has a resriced distnbution and may be usd by recipients only in the perfornance or
|ir oficia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION ........................................  21
A.  Implementation Responsibilities          .     .      21
Overall Project Coordination and Management/Basic
Infrastructure Upgrading in East Haamobi ........ 22
Road and Drainage Rehabilitation and Maintenance.. 23
Resource Mobilization at Municipal Level    ..   23
Property Revaluation...... ................ .....  25
Technical Assistance               .        .     26
Contract Services                 .        .     27
Training Activities ............       .. . .. ..  27
B. Accounts and Audit                 .         .         28
C. Procurement                     ..     28
D.  Disbursement    .      ..............     .    ......  31
E. Supervision and Monitoring             .       .     33
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .......... ...............* ..........  33
AS. General ...................................................... 33
B. Municipal Finance                  .         .         34
VI.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION  . .............................   .  42
A.  Economic Benefits and Poverty Impact        . .    42
B. Risks ........................................................ 43
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED .................................... 44
3-1  Cost Tables
3-2  Estimated Total Cedi Contribution by Government
3-3  Cash Flov
3-4  Implementation Plan - Revenue Mobilization Component
4-1  Implementation and Disbursement Schedules
4-2  Implementation Responsibilities - Road and Drainage Component
5   Table 1:  Nominal Value of General Rates (1980-1983 actual)
Table 2:  Nominal Value of General Rates (1984-1989 projected)
Table 3:  Nominal Value of Estimated and Actual Revenue
Table 4:  Real Value of Estimated and Actual Revenue
Table 5:  Real Value of Actual Expenditure by Department
Table 6:  Nominal Value of Actual Expenditure by Department
6   Economic Analysis
MAPS
IBRD 18556: Accra District Rehabilitation Project
IBRD 18557: East Maamobi Upgrading Area



GRANA
ACCRA DISTRICT REhABILITATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
INFORMATION CENTER CODE: DOC. # 221 657
Ref. No.                              Document
A.          Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Al.         Project Preparation Report - Road and Drainage Mainte-
nance Component, Lavalin International; 2 volumes,
August 1984.
A2.         Feasibility Study Report on Ghana Urban Development
Project, Huszar Brammah and Associates; Volume 2 -
Nima-Naamobi, September 1977.
A3.         Detailed Design and Engineering - East Maamobi, Twum
Boafo and Partners; Interim Report - 3 volumes,
September 1984.
A4.         Engineering Review of Basic Infrastructure in East
Maamobi, D. Ossen; June 1984 and October 1984.
A5.         Property Re-valuation Component, S. Keith; June 1984.
A6.         Initial Twinning Visit Report, Staffordshire County
Council; October 1984.
A7.         Socioeconomic Survevs - Nima-Maamobi, Ministry of Works
and Housing; October 1982 and June 1984.
A8.         Rating and Valuation in Ghana, S. Keith; December 1983
A9.         Land Administration and Valuation, Saad S. Yahya;
November 1981.
AIO.        Feasibility Study, Accra Solid Waste and Night Soil
Disposal System, GOPA Consultant for GTZ; November 1984.



All.        Report on ACC Personnel Administration, Audit and
Selected Financial Procedures, D.S. Obeng (GIMPA);
June 1984
A12.        ACC Legal and Related Documentation.
Al3.        Accra City Council, Draft Estimates and Final Accounts;
1974-84 (2 vols.).
A14.        Local Government Administration and Training, Ministry of
Local Government PARDIC GIMPA; 1983-84.
B.          Selected Working Papers
Bl.         Component Cost Details.
B2.         Draft Terms of Reference - Technical Assistance and
Studies.
B3.         Implementation Target Dates.
B5.         Working Papers, ACC Resource Mobilization.
B7.         Working Papers, Economic Analysis.



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Ghana.
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Works and Housing (MWH), Ministry of
Local Government (MLG), Accra Citv Council (ACC),
Accra District Roads Unit (ADRU).
Amount:              SDR 22.5 million (US$22.0 million equivalent).
Terms:               Standard.
Project
Description:         The proposed project will remove transport
bottlenecks in Accra, strengthen technically and
financially the institutions responsible for
infrastructure maintenance and urban services in
Accra, and demonstrate cost-effective improvements
to basic infrastructure in a small area of central
Accra. To achieve these ends, the project will
finance: (a) the completion or rehabilitation of
three major roads; (b) technical assistance, train-
ing, vehicles, equipment and materials for a
six-year program of road maintenance in Accra
District by ADRU; (c) technical assistance, vehi-
cles, equipment and training to improve )ILG's
property valuation and local government staff
training capability, ACC's revenue mobilization,
financial management and service delivery capabil-
ity, and MWH project management capability; and
(d) the construction of basic roads, drainage, water
supply, street lighting, sanitation and garbage
disposal facilities in a centrally-located 30 ha
area housing approximately 19,000 people.
Project Benefits
and Risks:          The project will contribute to the economic recovery
of the country by removing infrastructure con-
straints hindering the movement of imports and
exports in the Accra area, a major bottleneck in the
national road network. The development of a sound
road maintenance program will avoid substantial
future capital expenditures for road reconstruction.
Revenue mobilization at the municipal level in Accra



- iv -
and improved management procedures will enhance
ACC's ability to maintain infrastructure and provide
urban services, thus reducing the burden on scarce
central government resources. City residents will
benefit from improved traffic flows and environ-
mental improvements resulting from the regular
maintenance of the road and drainage network. The
improvement of basic infrastructure in the East
Maamobi area will improve living conditions for its
19,000 residents while demonstrating a cost-effec-
tive alternative to the Government's high cost
programs of the recent past. The risks involved in
the project are: (a) that ACC will not be able to
sustain sufficient political backing to approve and
collect the major increases in rates required to
continue funding improved road maintenance and
refuse disposal; and (b) that project implementation
will suffer due to the difficulty of attracting and
keeping qualified Ghanaian staff. The latter is a
risk affecting virtually all undertakings in Ghana
due to chronic national "brain drain". As for the
ACC rate increases, major increases for 1985 agreed
at appraisal have already become effective and an
annual review process was agreed at negotiations to
assure continuing sufficient increases. The reha-
bilitation of roads with assistance from this
project and the improvements in refuse collection
through bilateral aid from GTZ/KfW (Federal Republic
of Germany) will provide ACC with important
political capital with which to convince ratepayers
that ACC can deliver higher levels of service. A
sustained public enlightenment campaign, which is
also receiving support through the project, has been
designed to convey this message to city residents.



Summary Project Cost Estimate
Estimated Costs:                              Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ millions) ---
1.  Infrastructure Rehabilitation
- Road and Drainage Rehabilitation
and Naintenance                          3.6      11.9       15.5
- Basic Infrastructure in East Maamobi   1.0         1.6        2.6
2.  Resource Mobilization
- Property Revaluation                     0.4       1.4        1.8
- Municipal Revenue Mobilization           0.1       1.1        1.2
Total Base Cost                          5.1      16.0       21.1 a/
Physical contingencies                     0.5       1.3        1.8
Price contingencies                        0.7       2.7        3.4
Total Pro ect Cost                       6.3 b/   20.0       26.3
Financing Plan:
Percentage of
Total Project
Local    Foreign     Total           Cost
===- (US$ millions)         --
IDA                       2.4      19.6        22.0           84
WFP                       0.1       0.2         0.3             1
CIDA, ODA                 0.1       0.2         0.3             1
Government                3.7 bI      -         3.7            14
Total                 6.3      20.0        26.3          100
Estimated Disbursements (US$ Thousands):
FY86        FY87      FY88    FY89    FY90   FY91   FY91
---- (US$ millions)
Annual           3.3 a/c/d/  5.7 d/    6.6      4.0      1.8    0.4    0.2
Cumulative      3.3          9.0      15.&    19.6    21.4   21.8   22.0
a/  Includes refinancing of Project Preparation Facility advances of
US$1.0 million approved under the project.
b/  Includes US$1.3 million in taxes.
ct  Includes a deposit in a revolving fund of US$700,000.
d/  Includes US$2.0 million front-loaded IDA finarcing for local
expenditures incurred in FY86 through the second quarter
of FY87.



- vi -
Economic Rate of Return:  71% for the road rehabilitation and
muaintenance elements representing 74% of
project cost.
MEps:  IBRD 18556:         Accra District Rehabilitation Project.
IBRD 18557:        East Maamobi Upgrading Area.
WAPUR
February 1985



I. URBAN SECTOR
A. Accra
1.01      Approximately 36% of Ghana's present population of 12 million
live in urban areas. The urban growth rate (5.1%) is 70X higher than the
overall rate of population increase and by the end of the century the
urban population is expected to exceed 502 of total population. About
one-third of the urban population is concentrated in the capital of Accra
(approximately 1.4 million population in the Greater Accra Region,
according to the 1984 census). Accra has been Ghana's preeminent city
since the capital of the Gold Coast Colony was transferred from Cape
Coast early in the colonial era. The city is situated on the sea in the
dry southeastern coastal plain. It is the commercial/administrative
center of the country and the second largest industrial center (after the
neighboring city of Tema). Expanding at a rate of about 5% annually, at
current rates of growth the city's population will double before the
year 2000.
B. Urban Institutions
1.02      At the national level, the Ministry of Works and Housing (MWH)
is most directly responsible for urban development, having under its
aegis urban planning, and the development of townships and housing
estates (through several parastatals). MWH has been responsible for the
Government's sector programs to date, which have been based on implicit
policies of subsidized infrastructure provision in public and privately
developed areas, and the development of subsidized, high-cost rental
flats and housing estates. The Ministry of Local Government (MLG),
through its Inspectorate, its training school and its Valuation
Department, has a policy, coordination and training role in relation to
municipalities, and is responsible for property valuation. These
functions are critical to the local authorities in reversing the
technical and financial decline of the cities. The Ministry of Roads and
Highways, which through the Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) and the Feeder
Roads Department is responsible for the construction and maintenance of
all roads in the country, has a vital role in relation to urban infra-
structure. Responsibility for urban roads, which heretofore has beer
delegated to the municipalities, has recently reverted to the Highway
Authority. At the local level, the Accra City Council (ACC) is respon-
sible for primary and secondary school construction and maintenance,
urban infrastructure, waste disposal, and other services in the Accra
District, with a population of 965,000 in 1984, the most populous of the
four districts forming the Greater Accra Region (Accra District, Tema
District, and two rural districts lying inland). ACC is one of Ghana's



- 2 -
67 local government districts, which are the local taxing authorities.
Responsibilities include education (except teachers' salaries), sanita-
tion, solid waste management, and provision and maintenance of public
markets.
Institutional Reorganization
1.03      The Government has recently begun to take measures to improve
the organization of urban sector institutions. A Lands Valuation Board
(LVB) is to be established which will centralize currently scattered
property valuation functions and make more efficient use of scarce
manpower in this field. MLG would surrender its Valuation Department, as
would the Ministry of Lands and Mineral Resources. With budgetary and
administrative autonomy, LVB would provide a better vehicle for updating
the tax base of Accra and other urban areas. 1/   Authority for setting
the level of property tax charges and for collecting property tax would
remain with the local authorities. MWI recently established the Techni-
cal Services Center (TSC) to develop and undertake innovative approaches
to urban problems.
1.04      The Government has also recently begun to implement a decen-
tralization program, designed to make local government more autonomous,
more responsive to local needs, and more technically capable of providing
services. This should help to reverse the financial decline and deterio-
ration in service delivery, thereby giving local authorities control of
their affairs by harnessing local initiative and by tapping neglected
local sources of revenue. The program involves ending the direct con-
nection and dependency relationship between district authorities, grouped
into regions, and central government ministries, making each region
solely responsible for planning and administering its own development
programs. Each region is headed by a Regional Secretary with cabinet
rank. Each sector of Government would have offices at the regional and
district levels which would report to the Regional Secretary. Ministries
at the national level would be responsible only for policy, performance
monitoring, and personnel matters. 'While the Regions would not be given
taxing authority, they would take on the function of reviewing and
approving district budgets previously held by the Ministry of Local
Government, and would be given a broader responsibility to set regional
I/        The establishment of LVB has been delayed due to the difficulty
of recruiting a suitable director and other appropriately
qualified staff. Because of the uncertainty about when LVB
would be operational, and since the objectives of the project
can be achieved through the MLG Valuation Department, LVB has
not been retained as an executing agency for the project and is
not described further in this report. Should LVB become
operational during the project, the transfer of the Valuation
Department and its responsibilities in relation to the project
to LVB are not expected to pose problems.



- 3 -
spending priorities and exercise control over allocation of district
resources through a multi-year regional development plan. While the
decentralization program is underwa- in the Eastern and Volta Regions, it
is moving slowly and the Government has requested Bank Group assistance
in the planning and implementation of a training program to be carried
out by the Ghana Institute of Ma"t&gement and Public Administration
(GIMPA) for local authoritv personnel to improve the progress of decen-
tralization.
1.05      An interim measure of the program is the transfer of respon-
sibility for urban roads from the local authorities to GEkh (effective
January 1, 1984) until the local authorities are sufficiently strength-
ened to adequately assume the responsibilitv. 2/   The new Accra District
Roads Unit (ADRU) is currently under the technical direction of GHA, but
will be transferred back to ACC on December 31, 1987, by which time the
Urit will be functional and ACC will be financially ready. ADRU would be
one of several technical departments to be spun off from central govern-
ment and attached to ACC to strengthen its service and maintenance
capability. By consolidating scarce equipment and technical manpower,
this reorganization, appropriately supported, could provide a better
mechanism for lasting improvements to the road and drainage network in
Accra.
C. Sector Problems
Deteriorated Road and Drainage Network
1.06      The condition of the once highly-developed urban infrastructure
in Accra has severelv deteriorated. The road network is extensive,
comprising 946 km, of which 550 km are paved and 396 km are gravel. Of
the paved roads, 28 km are considered part of the national trunk road
network while the remaining (522 kn) are city arterials or local roads.
All the gravel roads are local in nature. In terms of alignment, the
arterial network shows no significant geometric design shortcomings and
traffic capacities are generally satisfactory. There are discontinu-
ities, particularly in the motorway/outer bypass network carrying port
traffic around the city.  Due to lack of maintenance in recent years. the
condition of the urban road network, especially the heavily-traveled
paved roads, has deteriorated and suffers from varying degrees of pave-
ment distress, moderate to extensive, over much of the paved network,
with severe distress conditions on large sections of the trunk and city
arterial roads. The remaining pavement life is, on average, five years.
2/        However, given GRA's own current institutional problems, this
move appears to have been ill-timed.



-4-
1.07      This deterioration of the network and the missing network links
cause extensive delay in the movement of goods and services (particularly
to and from the ports), damage to vehicles and equipment, very high
vehicle operating costs, and loss of life due to accidents. Traffic
bottlenecks countrywide have seriously affected the implementation of the
Government's economic program by slowing down movement of import/export
items, including emergency food aid.  As a result, eliminating traffic
bottlenecks has become one of the main objectives of the Government's
budgetary applications and the international community's aid efforts.
Due to the lack of routine maintenance, the drainage system in Accra has
also deteriorated to the point of ceasing to function in many places, and
flooding during the rainy season causes extended road blockages and
further deterioration of the road network.
Poor Infrastructure in Residential Areas
1.08      The city's growth long ago exceeded the capacity of national
and city governments to provide for the increasing population or to
maintain existing infrastructure. As a result, Accra is characterized by,
poorly serviced or badly-deteriorated areas such as James Town, Ussher
Town, Nima-Maamobi, Mamprobi, Zongo, and Teshie. These communities
suffer from the lack of, or poor condition of, roads, drainage, sanita-
tion, water supply, 31 electricity, and refuse disposal systems. In
addition, many of these areas lack basic medical, educational, and other
community facilities. More than 502 of the city's population lives in
these areas.
1.09      Serious health hazards for the majority of the city's popu-
lation are posed by seasonal flooding caused by poor drainage, uncollect-
ed garbage due to the lack of an effective solid waste management system,
and exposed human waste (which turns Accra's main drainage basin-the
Korle Lagoon-into an open sewer) due to the absence of a sanitation
system.
Institutional Weaknesses and Need for Training
1.10      In spite of Government's recent efforts to strengthen some
sector institutions, all the ministries and agencies active in the urban
sector suffer from problems related to a lack of trained staff or other-
wise inadequate technical capability. While it has advocated policy
3/        Improvement of water supply in the Accra area is being
addressed under the Water Supply Technical Assistance and
Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 1342), which is financing
the rehabilitation of the main pipeline (from the Kpong
reservoir) and technical assistance to improve the management
and operations of the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation.
However, the water distribution network has not been extended
into some areas of the city, the Nima-Maamobi area included.



-5-
reforms and new approaches such as sites and services, upgrading, re-
duction of subsidies and improved cost recovery in housing, MWH has
lacked the technical capability to depart from the well-established
housing and land development policies of the past. MLG has not been able
to effectively assist the local authorities to stop their financial and
technical decline. Its training program has neither an appropriate
curriculum nor the capacity to ensure adequate numbers of trained staff
to the local authorities. The Valuation Department suffers from an acute
lack of trained staff. GHA has experienced considerable difficulty in
carrying its responsibility in relation to trunk roads, and has neither
the capacity nor the capability to assume effective responsibility for
urban roads which have recently been added to its burden. ACC's depart-
ment heads and its accounting and revenue staff require training in the
new budgeting system to be introduced in connection with the decen-
tralization, as well as in improved collection procedures. The Accra
District Roads Unit lacks key technical staff (and equipment), and staff
need training if road maintenance is to be improved.
Deteriorated Municipal Finances
1.11      ACC suffers from acute shortages of key technical and financial
personnel, as well as from an almost total lack of machinery and vehicles
necessary for maintenance and service activities. These problems are
due, in part, to the general economic decline but are also due to ACC's
poor financial condition which has deteriorated rapidly since 1975. The
tax base has been seriously eroded and collection performance has de-
clined. As a consequence, ACC has grown more dependent on central
government subsidies which cover all salaries now representing more than
three-quarters of total revenues, compared to 55% in 1975. Expenditure
on materials for maintenance and capital works, which must be covered out
of internal revenues alone, represented about 10% of the total in 1983,
down from 50% in 1975. Capital expenditure has, in fact, been virtually
nil since 1979, the first year it came to less than 10% of the total.
Improving service delivery and infrastructure maintenance, and reversing
the financial decline will require considerable support to introduce
improved accounting, budgeting and control procedures, to enforce pen-
alties for non-payment, to update the tax base and fee and rate levels,
and to improve collections performance.
II. BENEFICIARY AGENCIES
A. Ministry of W;orks and Housing (MWH)
2.01      MWH has primary responsibility for urban development.  It sets
urban and housing policy and coordinates public sector activities under-
taken by the various parastatal agencies. The Chief Technical Director
is responsible for policy development and for coordinating the activities
of the two operating departments of MWH, works and housing, headed by
their respective Technical Directors. The Works Department undertakes



-6-
public sector projects directly, primarily minor government buildings,
civil service housing, and the road and drainage works associated with
them. It is also responsible for maintaining government propertv. The
Housing Department administers civil service housing and the rent control
program vhich is in force in all urban areas. The Town and Country
Planning Department, recently moved from the Ministry of Local Government
to MWH, prepares ma ter plans for urban areas, and is responsible for
assuring the zonformity of individual developments.
2.02      Most public sector activity is undertaken by public corpo-
rations under the policy guidance and coordination of MWH. Their respon-
sibilities are summarized in the table below.
PARASTATAL AGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES
Agency                                   Responsibilities
State Housing Corporation                 Rental, hire-purchase housing
estates.
Tema Development Corporation              Implementation of Tema Master
Plan, rental housing, commercial
developments.
State Construction Corporation            Executes Government civil works
and construction contracts.
Ghana Water and Sewerage                  Water supply and distribution to
Corporation                               public, domestic, and industrial
consumers; sewerage.
Architectural and Engineering             Survey, planning, design,
Services Corporation                      supervision of Government
projects.
Electricity Corporation of Ghana          Electric power distribution.
2.03      In an effort to develop a project execution capability, MWH
established the Technical Services Center (TSC) in 1983. TSC, which
absorbed the remnants of the Sites and Services Unit established by MWM
in 1976 to prepare the urban project appraised bv the Bank in 1977, is
responsible for promoting the improvement of housing and related infra-
structure and services for low income urban and rural groups, through the
use of appropriate technology and local building materials, the organiza-
tion of housing cooperatives, and the securing of the participation of
the population. This includes taking the lead role in the coordination
of the project. TSC currently has a staff of six professionals (four
architects, a planner and an engineer), three technicians, and six
support staff.



CGIANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHIABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT BRNEFrCIARY ACENCIES
Ministry of                                    Ministry of                                      Hi Mnistry of
|Works and Housing                             Loca! Government                                Roads and Highways
Works      lHousing             Local Govt.                      Valuation          Feeder       Ghana       Urban
statals   Department   Department             Traininp       Inspectorate    Department          Roads       Highway     Roads
School                                            Dept.     Authority    Dept.
TeclInical       Town and
Services         Country
Center          Planning
DepartmentI
Greater Accra                                  Greater Accra
Regional                                       Regional
Administration                                     Office
Accra District…[ _____________________    ccra District
Council (ACC)                                Roads Unit (ADRU
Broken lines represent: (n) increasing autonomy of the Greater Accra Region and Accra District (ACC) vis-a-vis the
Ministry of Local Government as a result of the decentralization program; (b) separation of the Accra District Roads Unit
from CHA during the project; and (c) the transfer of ADRU to ACC durinR the project.



-8-
B. Ministry of Local Government (ILG)
2.04      MLG is responsible for policy formulation on local organiza-
tion, administration and finance 2S well as training for local author-
ities (district councils, including city councils). Before mid-1983,
when ?MLG effectively reassigned most staff to the regions and districts
under the Government's decentralization program, MLG played a very active
role in supervising district council activities. Its approval was
required on all council budget estimates and property rate increases; it
handled council payrolls and preaudited expenditure accounts, and was
involved in virtually all major policy decisions. While the councils
themselves are now in the process of assuming responsibility for internal
audit, the ten Regional Administrations will continue to assure payroll,
budget, and policy oversight functions. Property valuation for taxation
purposes has been the responsibility of the Valuation Department of NLG;
this department is slated to be separated from MLG and upgraded into an
autonomous Lands Valuation Buard with national responsibility.
2.05      MLG's training function has been limited to a single three-
month course, carried out through the Local Government Training School
(LGTS) three times a year for revenue staff moving from lower level to
intermediate level positions. Present capacity is about 100 students per
year for the entire countrv, but training needs in this area far exceed
this capacity; revenue staff eligible to take the course in Accra alone
number several hundred. MIG intends to begin the training of trainers to
carry out this revenue course outside Accra. The school's curriculum is
also in need of updating and expanding to adapt it to the decentraliza-
tion program and to the need to mobilize additional resources at the
district level.
2.06      The Valuation Department, which in the best of times could not
cope with its work load because of staffing weaknesses, has become less
and less effective in recent years due to increasing vacancies in middle
and upper level valuer and technician positions. There is currently only
a single qualified valuer in the department - the Commissioner of Val-
uation. Lack of transportation, equipment, and effective management and
control techniques also hamper the Valuation Department.
C. Accra City Council (ACC)
2.07      ACC, a district council in the Greater Accra Region, is respon-
sible for the provision of the following services for the city of Accra:
education through the secondary level (except for teachers' salaries and
textbooks), solid waste disposal, conservancy (sanitation other than
sewerage), street sweeping and drain cleaning, and the construction and
maintenance of schools, sanitary structures, markets, street lights,
public parks and gardens. Until January 1, 1984, ACC's City Engineer's



9-
Department was also responsible for the construction and maintenance of
the non-trunk roads and the drainage network, but the Department's Roads
Branch has been shifted to the Ghana Highway Authority as an interim
measure of the decentralization program. Once it is considered to be
operating effectively, the Accra roads unit will be moved back to ACC as
one of a number of currently-centralized ministerial sections dealing
with services in Accra to be merged into the existing city government.
2.08      For the time being, the city has six main departments.  The
Department of the Medical Officer of Health, the largest in ACC, handles
solid waste disposal, conservancy and cleaning functions. The City
Engineerts Department performs all other maintenance and construction
functions. The Mechanical Engineer's Department maintains all ACC vehi-
cles and equipment, including those used for solid waste and sanitation.
The City Education Department runs primary and secondary schools in
accordance with policies established by the Ministry of Education, which
also handles teacher recruitment and salaries. The City Treasurer's
Department is responsible for accounts and budget preparation and
control, and assessing and collecting city revenues. The Solicitor's
Department handles legal matters, including enforcement of tax penalties.
A separate internal audit section, reporting directly to the Council,
carries out internal audit functions, and an external audit unit,
reporting to the Auditor General, has its offices in the ACC headquarters
building.
2.09      ACC is experiencing a financial crisis which has become in-
creasingly severe in the last several years as triple-digit inflation has
eroded the tax base and revenue collection performance has deteriorated.
Tax rates and fee schedules have been raised but not enough to keep up
with inflation, and the 1978 takeover of district payrolls by central
government has reduced the incentive to pursue local revenue. The net
effect is a drastic decline in resources in real terms, in particular,
funds to purchase materials, supplies and equipment for maintenance,
repair and construction. As with other levels of Government, ACC also
suffers from key staff shortages and a generally low level of skills and
productivity.
D. Accra District Roads Unit (ADRU)
2.10      ADRU was established as an integral unit of the Ghana Highway
Authority on January 1, 1984, as a result of a Government decision to
place responsibility for urban roads throughout the country under the
technical control of GHA, an autonomous agency under the Mlinistry of
Roads and Highways (MRH). The decision was made in connection with the
Government's decentralization program, as part of the effort to strength-
en the provision of services at the District level. In the case of
Accra, the shift of responsibility brought the personnel, vehicles, and
equipment of the ACC road unit under the control of the Greater Accra
Region Office of GRA which was already responsible for urban trunk roads,
and had the effect of consolida.ing scarce technical skills and equipment



- 10 -
which were particularly lacking in ACC. In view of improvements to be
made in ACC's ability to finance and manage urban services (including
road maintenance) and GRA's difficulty in handling its broad responsibil-
ities, Bank Group staff urged Government to establish a timetable for
transferring ADRU back to ACC. MLG and MRH have agreed that ADRU,
appropriately strengthened with new equipment and procedures, will be
handed back to ACC by December 31, 1987, in keeping with the objectives
and modified timetable of the decentralization program in the Greater
Accra Region. In the interim, ACC and GRA will cooperate closely in
directing the operations of ADRU. 4/   ACC technical staff will be
attached to ADRU during the transition period. GRA will provide techni-
cal guidance and manage procurement of equipment, consultant services,
and civil works. Staff salaries and operating expenses will also be
provided through GRA's budget with increasing contributions from ACC
until the handover, the main impact of which will be the shift of
responsibility for the cost of materials and other operating expenses to
ACC. It is expected that salaries will continue to be centrally funded.
2.11      ADRU is divided into three subdistrict offices, each with an
equipment depot, which is responsible for routine and recurrent mainte-
nance through direct labor. Periodic maintenance and vehicle and equip-
ment maintenance remain centralized at the city level.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Objectives
Background
3.01      In mid-1980, the Government and the Bank agreed to revive and
restructure an urban project originally appraised in 1977, on which
processing had been stalled while macroeconomic policy issues were being
discussed. The scope of the original project was thus reduced from four
cities to one (Accra), and its focus was shifted from shelter to reha-
bilitation of existing road infrastructure, and to municipal resource
mobilization to support maintenance activities. It was also agreed that
a small upgrading component in Accra could be retained because of the
strong public commitment the Government had made to provide basic sanita-
tion infrastructure in East Maamobi. A Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) advance had been provided in 1976 under Bank terms to finance the
original feasibility study.
4/        Progress toward the strengthening of ADRU and its transfer to
ACC, and the sharing of costs between GHA and ACC will be
reviewed annually by the Bank Group, GHA, and ACC.



- 11 -
3.02      Preparation of the project in its current form effectively
began in August 1980. Using funds remaining from an earlier PPF for an
urban project, MWH engaged a consultant to assist its project preparation
unit in repreparing the upgrading component, updating planning concepts,
costs, socioeconomic data and implementation arrangements, while other
components were being prepared in cooperation with MLG and ACC. The
project was preappraised in November 1981, but the change in Government
in December 1981 halted further processing while new approaches to
development were being worked out and development priorities rede-
termined. A preparation mission in November/December 1983 reconfirmed
the priority of the project and its individual components in the Govern-
ment's economic recovery program, with particular emphasis on eliminating
traffic bottlenecks created largely by heavy-weight, import-export
related traffic detouring through the city because of missing motorway
sections. Following further preparation financed by a new PPF provided
under IDA terms and a CIDA grant (CPPF), appraisal took place in May/June
1984. Detailed design of the East Maamobi component and various
preimplementation activities (referencing of properties for revaluation,
training of ACC personnel, initial twinning visits, etc.) are being
financed by the IDA PPF. An additional Can$150,000 grant is being
considered by CIDA for the detailed design of the roads/drainage
component.
3.03      In its earlier form, the project included solid waste manage-
ment and sanitation components. In 1980, the Government requested assis-
tance from the Federal Republic of Germany in these areas in the city of
Accra and a KfW/GTZ project was consequently prepared.  There has been
close cooperation between Bank Group and KfW/GTZ staff during the prepa-
ration of the two projects, and they have been designed to be mutually
supportive, including provision in revenue mobilization agreements
through the Bank project for amounts sufficient to cover solid waste
vehicle renewals and running costs, as well as for the road maintenance
program receiving direct Bank support. The KfW/GTZ project got underway
in November 1984 and the full technical assistance team and the equipment
are expected to be in place by June 1985.
Project Justification and Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
3.04      The project will support the Bank Group's country assistance
strategy and the Government's economic recovery program in their priority
areas of the removal of infrastructure bottlenecks constraining the
movement of exports and imports through the improvements to the road
network, domestic resource mobilization, and the avoidance of substantial
future capital costs through maintenance of infrastructure. The project
focuses on improving and completing the Accra outer ring road which will
carry Tema port traffic, currently passing through the city and around
the city center. This traffic, mostly very heavy trucks, is
deteriorating city trunk roads and streets. The completed outer ring
will result in speedier and less costly movement of export and import
items. The project will also develop a maintenance capacity within the
City Council to protect the substantial investment in the city's vital
road and drainage network.



- 12 -
3.05      The project's road and drainage rehabilitation component is
part of a coordinated effort to remove major transport bottlenecks
together with the port component of the ongoing Export Rehabilitation
Project and the Third and proposed Fourth Highway and Port Projects.
Transport bottlenecks have been identified as a major constraint to the
timely movement of exports and imports which are essential to rehabil-
itating export sectors of the economy and increasing foreign exchange
earnings - key targets in the Government's economic recovery program.
The project also supports the Bank Group policy in relation to GHA by
reducing the burden on GHA through the transfer of ADRU to ACC, and by
demonstrating the feasibility of urban road maintenance by a local
authority rather than GHA. The resource mobilization component will
improve the city's finances and its ability to provide services and
maintain road and drainage infrastructure. The practical feasibility of
progressive improvements in Accra's finances, particularly property
taxes, should ultimately permit the city to reduce its dependence on
Government subventions. The improved accounting and financial management
systems developed for Accra in this project will also be directly
applicable to the other urbanized districts. The upgrading component,
althottgh relatively small, should be highly visible and will have a
significant impact on Goverment policy through the demonstration of
cost-effective alternatives to high-cost housing and slum clearance.
3.06      Bank Group involvement is necessary because of the lack of
funds and relevant expertise in the Government and the lack of other
bilateral and multilateral sources of financing.  The Bank Group has been
a major donor supporting the removal of transport bottlenecks in urban
areas. Several other donors (see para 3.12) have made minor commitments
to the project but the donor community in general is committing available
resources to the Export Rehabilitation Credit and the ongoing and
proposed Reconstruction Import Credits. The Bank Group is also a major
donor in a position to influence Government policy on municipal
organization and finance, which the project aims to change.
Project Objectives and Description
3.07      Long-term objectives of sector involvement are as follows:
(a) to financially and institutionally strengthen local
authorities to permit the provision of urban services and
maintenance without Government operating subsidies;
(b) to rehabilitate the primary infrastructure networks in the
major cities; and
(c) to rationalize sector policy and the role of the public
sector in urban development.
3.08      The objectives of the project are:
(a)  to remove transport bottlenecks in Accra which are con-
straining general economic recovery;



- 13 -
(b) to mobilize revenues at the municipal level in Accra;
(c) to demonstrate cost-effective improvements to basic
infrastructure in a small central area of Accra; and
(d) to strengthen the capacity of institutions responsible for
infrastructure maintenance in Accra (ACC/ADRU) and urban
project management (TSC).
B. Summary Description
3.09      The main features of the project are as follows:
(a) Infrastructure Rehabilitation
(i) Road and Drainage Rehabilitation and Maintenance:
Civil works, technical assistance, vehicles, equip-
ment, materials, training, and food incentives in
support of the Accra District Roads Unit of ACC/GHA.
This component will help establish and carry out a
six-year program involving the completion of the
missing portion of the Accra outer ring road, the
rehabilitation of four other major road sections, and
routine and periodic maintenance of the road and
drainage network of the city of Accra. The component
also includes a study of the Accra Central Business
District to determine road network requirements and
traffic management measures; a small provision for
pilot measures and minor works consequent to the
study is also included; and
(ii)  Basic Infrastructure Upgrading in East Maamobi:
Basic roads, drainage, water supply, electricity,
sanitation and garbage disposal in a 30 ha area of
Nima-Maamobi east of the Nima highway and north of
the Nima stream inhabited by approximately :9.000
people. This component includes the acquisition of
land for roads, public facilities, and compensation
for structures displaced by the infrastructure. It
also includes technical assistance, vehicles and
equipment for the implementation of this component as
well as the coordination of the project as a whole.
(b) Resource Mobilization
(i)  Property Revaluation:  Technical assistance, vehi-
cles, equipment, and training to assist the MILG
Valuation Department in carrying out revaluation of
properties, beginning in Accra, improving management
and control systems in valuation, and training of



- 14 -
valuers and other technical personnel both within and
outside Ghana; and
(ii) Municipal Revenue Mobilization: Technical assis-
tance, computer hardware, and vehicles for ACC to
Improve revenue collection and financial management;
local consultancies for curriculum development and
delivery of short courses for ACC staff and manuals
of procedure; vehicles, equipment, and books for the
MHG Local Government Training School; short overseas
study visits for key ACC staff.
Efforts have been made in designing the project to keep the recruitment
of external firms or individuals to a minimum (through the use of local
private sector valuers for some of the property revaluation and the Ghana
Institute of Management and Public Administration for some technical
assistance and training requirements) and to improve the delivery and
effectiveness of external technical assistance where it is unavoidable
(through the twinning of Accra City Council with Staffordshire County
Council of the UK and the Valuatior Department with the UK Valuation
Office) (paras 4.04-4.08). These arrangements will mean that individual
external recruitment and external consulting firms will be required for
only a few specialized tasks accounting for less than a quarter of the
combined total for contract services (55 staff-years) and technical
assistance (27 staff-years): a part of civil works design and
supervision, a traffic study, recruitment of the project manager if a
suitable Ghanaian cannot be found, and other minor short-term assistance.
C. Cost Estimates
Project Costs and Financing
3.10      Total project cost is estimated at e 1,316.4 million
(US$26.3 million) of which 76% or e 1,000.1 million (US$20.0 million) is
the foreign exchange component. Summary cost estimates are shown on the
following page and detailed cost estimates are included in Anncx 3-1.
Base cost estimates are as of December 1984 and are based on:
(a) final design for upgrading and preliminary design for road
and drainage rehabilitation;
(b)  price quotations provided by Government agencies and by
suppliers;



- 15 -
BON: ICES IISTRICT RIMILITAnU PERIET
_r11 mertT OWST a
IB3 East isE decacir 290M)
lump *  C 50)
Percntage
LOAL       TFES    FOPII            TTAL                  LOCAL      TAIES    FOEIEI          TOTIIL       f lsa  Cost
(CEII 000!                                                   ISs '000)
RoAd IdhAilitati. ud Naintuuce
TKchtcal  Issitcec hi                             0          0       51,600      51,600                     0          0        1,032        1,032           4.9n
Vuicles ud Equiput                            16,53          0      110,695     127,194                   331          0        Z,1          2,544          12.01
Civil IWrks                                  77,942     35,971      272,797     35,710                  1,55         779        ,456        7,794           3691
tfils                                         5,9N0          0       5S3,14      59.050                   III          0        2,063        1,191           5.6z
FPS IntEts                                     5,250         0        9,750      15,000                   105          0          195          300           1.4
Catratdr Priudic laintnsce                    7,000       1,400       5,.60      14,00                    140        2Z           112          290           1.32
lnfpt and Svrvisim  hi                        10,232         0       40,530      50.JQ                    203          0         SIl         1,013           4.Z.
Traffic Study                                 14,000     3,000       53,00       70,000                   230         60        2,060        1,400           6.6%
Sbtotal                                 136,70      43,371      597,011     M,216                   2,7S5        867       11,942       15,544          73.6%
ELt lmli Upqrading
TnehiuAl AssisttanC                              25          0       25,425      25.450                     1          0         509           50Y           2.4S
ticles ud Equipamt hi                            401         0        2,450       2,050                     a          0          49            57           0.3%
Civil IWrks                                    5,12      4,991       39,157      52,959                   176        100         715         1,059           5.e
Dsipn ud  Bervisis  bi cl                      2,230         0       14,000      16,250                    45          0         210           325           1.5I
Laid                                         32,470          0            0      32,470                   649          0           0           649           3.I1
subtotal                                 43,956      4,992       01,032     129,979                   879        100        1,621       2,&00           12.32
Pqrty Realuatim
Tuhical  Asitsance                                0          0       60,500      60,900                     0          0        1,216        2,216           5.11
Private B y Cmnb altautin bl                 16,0e0          0            0      13,000                   320          0           0          320            1.51
uic1es ad Epdpunt                               973          0        6,I        7,100                    19          0         123           142           o.n
Traiain                                       1,525          0       4,575        6,100                    31          0          92          122            0.6
Ubtotal                                  18,498          0       71,502      3,000                    30           0        1,430        1,300           a.8%
taicWpal owa  fhbilization
Technical Assistance hi                         150          0       36,500      36,650                     3          0         730           733           3.57
thicle  and Equipeent bI                      2,045          0       11,415      13,500                    41          0         229          270            1.3%
Trutsing b/                                   3,00           0        5,2100      9,000                    7e          0         102          10            0.n%
Subtoa                                    6,095          0      53,055       59,150                   122          0       1,061         1,193           5.61
TOT. USE C1ST                                  205,314     48,362     802,669   1,056,345                  4,106        967       16,053       21,127         100.Ot
FEysical Coetingmin                         15,66       6,734      66,954       92,255                   m           135      1,337         I'M45           a.rh
Price Cmtiagctin                            27,726      9,556      130,537     167,119                   555        291       2,611        3,356           15.9%
TOTE.L Ecr CUST                                251,706     64,652   1,000,060   1,316,418                  5,034      1,293      20,001       26,329
*.n         *nw      * s~- a       .n                         s       -U         ~                -
a/ ToWs say not ad up d. to rmuadig.
bi Intlin    PtF advnces (P29 -  RI1 totatliag *750,000.
d  lKclede  PFf advnce IPO0  - MI of £250,000 lincluding accrued intartstl.
Fdr IyYIM



- 16 -
(c) current costs of consulting services in Ghana, including
contract costs for road and upgrading design, and twinning
costs provided by Staffordshire County Council and the UK
Valuation Office; and
Upgrading design of East Maamobi is complete. Final design of road work
is underway (field work completed January 1985) and no major changes in
total costs are expected. Any modification in the total cost will be
resolved by shifting the proportions of road and drainage works within
the current cost estimate and will not involve any increase in financing
requirements.
3.11      Base costs have been calculated in cedis and converted into
US dollars at the official exchange rate of US$1 - ¢ 50 for the calcu-
lation of price contingencies and the estimated rate of inflation on
foreign costs applied to both foreign and local costs. This assumes that
any persistent divergence In foreign and local rates of inflation will
have to be corrected by exchange rate adjustments. Physical contin-
gencies have been estimated at 15% on civil works components and 10% on
all other components except technical assistance and land acquisition for
which no physical contingency is included. Price contingencies for both
local and foreign costs are based on rates of inflation of 8% for 1985,
9% for 1986-88, 7.5% for 1989, and 6% for 1990, which are the appraisal
mission's best estimates of expected price increases. On this basis,
total contingencies are estimated at 25% of base costs. For Government
budgeting purposes, local rates of inflation (30% for 1985, 152 for
1986-88, 10% for 1989-90) have been applied to its annual share of
financing of base costs to establish the estimated total cedi contri-
bution required from Government. The total amounts to e 219 million or
about 20% greater than the deflated total based on foreign rates of
inflation (Annex 3-2).
D. Financing Plan and Funds Flow
3.12      The proposed IDA credit of US$22.0 million will finance 84% of
total project cost (882 of total cost net of taxes), 98% of foreign
exchange costs, and 39% of local costs. Cofinancing totalling US$490,000
has been committed, 5/ and an additional US$110,000 has been tentatively
agreed, 6/ and is expected to be committed before Board presentation.
Cofinancing will then total US$600,000 and will finance 2X of total
5/        US$120,000 from CIDA for preliminary road design, US$300,000
from WFP for the food incentive program and US$70,000 from ODA
for training of Valuation Department personnel.
6/        An additional project preparation grant from CIDA for detailed
road design.



- 17 -
project cost (2% of foreign exchange costs and 2% of local costs). A
number of donors active in Ghana (UK, USAID, KfW, GTZ. Italy, Japan,
CIDA, WFP) were approached about cofinancing but their resources were
committed to either their own prograsM or to the Export Rehabilitation
and the First and proposed Second Reconstruction Import Credits. The
total of US$600,000 noted above was the maximum cofinancing that could be
mobilized. The Goverment's contribution of US$3.7 million will cover
14% of total costs (US$2.4 million net of taxes or 10% of total cost).
The proposed project is a priority in the Government's current investment
program. The Goverment and the Bank Group are currently engaged in a
public expenditure review and projects in the core program (which will
include this project) will be sheltered from budgetary constraints. The
project cash flow showing the timing of the various elements of proiect
financing against expected implementation requirements is attached as
Annex 3-3. A special account in a commercial bank will be established
into which IDA proceeds in the amount of US$700,000 will be deposited as
a revolving fund, once the credit becomes effective, to cover four months
of IDA's share of foreign and local expenditures in order to relieve the
Government of prefinancing these costs (see para 4.17).  The IDA special
account will be replenished on the basis of applications supported by
appropriate documentation (bank-statements, statements of expenditure,
etc.) submitted monthly or when cumulative fund expenditures exceed
US$230,000. The special account will be managed by TSC. The financing
plan is s1narized in the table below.
Fir ducing Plan
Local         Taxes        Foreign          Total
(US$ Thousands)
IDA                     2,449             -          19,551        22,000
WFP                        105             -            195           300
CIDA                       45              -            185           230
ODA                         -             -              70            70
Government              2,435          1,293              -         3,728
Total                   5.034          1.293         20&001        26.328
3.13      The credit will be made to the Government of Ghana and will be
passed on to  WH, M1LG, ACC, and GHA on a grant basis because of the
rehabilitation nature of project works and activities. Cofinancing will
also be in the form of grants (CIDA project preparation funds already
utilized for the project have been contributed on a grant basis).
Government's contribution will take the form of budgetary allocations to
each of the executing agencies concerned based on the counterpart financ-
ing required for the components to be carried out by the respective
agencies as detailed in their annual budget requests and reconfirmed



- 18 -
quarterly work programs and expenditure estimates. Provision for the
project has been made by each agency in its 1985 submission.
E. Detailed Description
Institutional Reform and Policy Measures
3.14      The project executing agencies have agreed to the following
institutional measures in connection with the project:
(a)  M1G has decided to include the Greater Accra Region in the
first group of regions to be decentralized rather than
postponing its inclusion so that full decentralization can
coincide with the implementation of the project and the
Accra Region experience can serve as an example for other
urban areas;
(b)  in line with (a), MLG and MRH have agreed that ADRU and
responsibility for urban roads in Accra should be trans-
ferred back to ACC by December 31, 1987; and
(c) MLG has agreed to draw on private sector expertise by
engaging local valuers to update property references under
countract to the Valuatior Department in order to speed up
the process of property revaluation in Accra.
3.15      ACC has agreed to the following policy measures in connection
with a financial improvement program to finance improved services involv-
ing:
(a)  dramatic property rate, license and fee increases begin-
ning iu 1985 voted by ACC's council in November 1984;
(b)  introduction of a service-oriented accounting system
allowing income and expenditure information to be used for
performance measurement;
(c)  improved collection performance with targets for area
offices reviewed on a regular basis;
(d)  use of private lawyers to bring chronic defaulters to
court and delegation of routine debt collection to Trea-
sury staff; and
(e) public information c.npaign.
The increase in revenues which is expected as a result of these measures
is on the order of ¢ 15 to 35 million a year in real terms (1984 cedis),
requiring increases of about 30% annually on average over the 1984-1989
period (paras 5.03-5.12).



- 19 -
3.16      As presented brieflv in the Summary Description (para 3.09),
the project involves four components under two major headings:
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Resource Mobilization. These compo-
nents are described in more detail in the following paragraphs.
Infrastructure Rehabilitation
3.17      Road and Drainage Rehabilitation and Maintenance.  The project
would finance a six-year program aimed at rehabilitating the road and
drainage network of Accra and instituting a continuing maintenance
program. The program will include completion of a key motorway segment
(8.5 km) and rehabilitation of five priority trunk road segments
(17.5 km). 7/   These sections will be undertaken as part of a national
program of priority road rehabilitation which is being drawn up by GHA
and MMR in the context of the Fourth Highway Project and which will be
reviewed annually by the Bank Group. The maintenance aspect of the
program includes finances for bitumen and food incentives for ADRU
employees.  The program involves periodic maintenance averaging 50 km of
roads and drain2ge per year, increasing from 10 km in Year One to 90 km
in Year Six, and routine maintenance averaging 325 km per year,
increasing from 25 km in Year One to 550 km in Year Six. The following
vehicles and equipment will also be provided to ADRU and private con-
tractors for the road maintenance program: 36 tippers, water tankers and
pick-up trucks, 18 rollers and compaction equipment items, 10 dozers,
graders and loaders, 8 bitumen spreaders, mixers and sprayers, 1 mobile
crane, 2 saloon cars, 33 motorcycles, and a suitable quantity of tools
and spare parts. The project will also provide 120 staff-tonths of
highway engineers and mechanical engineers to organize the six-year
program and develop an equipment maintenance program. A 30 staff-month
traffic study of the Accra Central Business District and provision for
minor works recommended by the study is also included.
3.18      Basic Infrastructure Upgrading in East Maamobi.  In the East
faamobi area of Accra, the project will finance the construction of
approximately 2.2 km of 10 m ROW bitumen-surfaced roads with associated
drainage, 1.65 km of 5 m ROW bitumen-surfaced footpaths, 4.8 km of 100 mm
to 200 mm diameter water pipes, 10 fire hydrants, 8 multi-compartment VIP
public latrines, 12 refuse containers of 8 m3 capacity, and 2.2 km of
low-tension overhead cable and limited street lighting. The electrical
network is not intended to provide for private connections. Capacity of
the water system will be sufficient to permit individual connections at
the option of building owners, but financing of such
7/        See Annex 3-1, page 1 for details.



- 20 -
connections is not included in the project. 8/   Owners of the approxi-
mately 150 dwelling rooms (only about 5X of the total number of dwelling
rooms in East Maamobi) removed for infrastructure installation will be
compensated, as will owners of land acquired for rights-of-way and public
facilities. The cost of compensation has been included in the cost
estimates. This component also includes 36 staff-months of a project
engineer for MWH Technical Services Center to oversee the implementation
of the East Naamobi component, as well as office equipment and supplies
for project management. The project also provides 12 staff-months of
short-term technical assistance for the support of the project accounting
system and other, as yet unidentified, requirements.
Resource Mobilization
3.19      To improve the financial situation of ACC, the project will
provide assistance to MLG, ACC, and JGTS to update the city's property
tax base, improve assessment and collections of city revenues, train
technical and financial personnel, and introduce new accounting and
budgeting systems and control techniques. The systems and techniques
developed for Accra in this project could then be used in other urban
districts as part of the decentralization process. The activities and
phasing of the overall improvement program is presented in Annex 3-4. A
twinning arrangement with Staffordshire/UK County Council for technical
assistance and training for ACC City Treasurer's and City Engineer's
Departments was agreed in principle following an exchange of visits by
representatives of the two agencies in June and July 1984, and an initial
technical team visit in September 1984 (see para 4.05). A draft legal
agreement has been reviewed by SCC and ACC and both have accepted it
subject to minor revisions concerning details of logistic arrangements.
Signature of the revised twinning agreement is expected at the next
twinning visit planned for April 1985.
3.20      Property Revaluation.  The project will provide technical
assistance to the MLG Valuation Department in the form of three qualified
valuers for approximately three years each (total 100 staff-months) to
undertake the revaluation of real property in Accra and, time permitting,
elsewhere in Ghana. In addition, 12 staff-months of a qualified valuer
will be provided to Improve the Valuation Department's in-house training
program for as yet unqualified valuation staff, as well as technicians.
8/        More than 200 individual metered connections exist in East
Maamobi, as well as 2 water kiosks where water is sold at e 1
per bucket. The estimated cost of an individual connection
after the new system is installed (o 4,000) represents only 5X
of the average compound owner's annual income. It is assumed
that compound owners will opt for individual connections
because of the high priority of improved water service (as
indicated in a recent survey) and the affordable cost of
connection.



- 21 -
This expert will also be responsible for developing improved management
and control techniques for application in the countrywide revaluation
program. Six staff-months of short-term assistance are included to cover
the requirements of a property numbering study and other needs to be
identified during the course of the project. The project will also
finance training in the UK (and possibly Australia) for 10 technicians
and 4 valuers. The project also provides 4 vehicles and 20 motorcycles
for the Accra revaluation exercise (which will later be used in the
revaluation exercise in other regions), and office and field equipment
for the Department as a whole. Provision is also made for approximately
360 staff-months of local private sector valuer services to undertake the
referencing of properties in Accra not currently on the valuation list.
3.21      Municipal Revenue Mobilization.  ACC City Treasurer's Depart-
ment will be strengthened through an assistance program to focus on
accounting and control systems, budgeting, collection controls and
enforcement, direct labor programming, and contract management. The
program provides for recruitment of a resident municipal finance advisor
to ACC (43 staff-months) and short-term twinning visits (24 staff-months)
several times a year, provided under the technical twinning arrangement
with Staffordshire County Council, as well as a budget for short-term
consultancies (8 staff-months). The technical twinning arrangement also
provides for short study visits to Stafford (UK) by the Treasurer and
City Engineer. An additional 6 months of external consultancy and 24 of
local consultancy are provided for review of LGTS curriculum, design and
delivery of workshops for ACC staff on output management and
productivity, forward output/resource planning and analysis, and also on
new decentralization procedures. The project will also provide in-house
computer facilities for accounts record keeping, and management
information on collections and expenditures; short overseas training
courses for 2 ACC computer staff; 2 vehicles to the Treasurer's
Department for supervision of area revenue collection operations; one
vehicle, equipment and materials for a public enlightenment campaign; and
office and audiovisual equipment, books and vehicles for training
institutions (LGTS and GIMPA).
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Responsibilities
4.01      A summary of project execution responsibilities by component is
shown on the following page.



- 22 -
Project Element                                     Executing Agency
Overall Project Coordination and Management         TSC
Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Road and Drainage Rehabilitation and
Maintenance                                  ADRU
Basic Infrastructure Upgrading in
East Maamobi                                 TSC
Resource Mobilization
Property Revaluation                           HLG Valuation Department
Municipal Revenue Mobilization                 ACC/ZLG
Overall Project Coordination and Management/Basic Infrastructure
Upgrading in East Maamobi
4.02      The project will require about six years to implement, begin-
ning about April 1985, but disbursement of the greater part of the IDA
credit is expected to take place during the first three years. The
Implementation Schedule (Annex 4-1) shows the Ministry of Works and
Housing (MWH) will have responsibility for the coordination and
administration of the project because it has been the lead ministry for
the project since its identification, and has set up a relatively
well-staffed unit to coordinate the project. The Technical Services
Center (TSC), established under M14 as the unit to execute special
goverment projects in the urban sector, will have overall responsibility
for project coordination and will be strengthened by the proiect through
the provision of a project engineer to be recruited internationally and
in post by the end of August 1985, and short-term assistance in
accounting and other areas defined during the course of the project. 9/
The existing staff of TSC, mostly architect/planners and drafting
personnel, will be supplemented by additional local engineering and
accounting staff seconded from MWH or other government agencies.
4.03      TSC will have primary responsibility for the East Maamobi
component and will coordinate the inputs of the project to the other
components. It will maintain consolidated project accounts and will
coordinate expenditure of IDA contributions to all components. TSC, with
the assistance of consultants, will supervise the infrastructure works to
be undertaken in the East Maamobi component. To insure the coordination
of the various activities of the project, an interagency coordinating
committee has been established with representation from the concerned
bodies and chaired by the representative of MWH.
9/        Terms of reference for these and other elements of project
technical assistance are found in the Project File.



- 23 -
Road and Drainage Rehabilitation and Maintenance
4.04      The Roads Unit, initially under joint GHA/ACC direction (see
para 2.10 and Annex 4-2 for details of this arrangement) and later under
ACC direction, will be responsible for the implementation of the road and
drainage rehabilitation and maintenance component which will take the
form of a six-year program. Road rehabilitation works will be undertaken
by international contractors supervised by consultants engaged by ADRU.
The routine and periodic maintenance program will commence in the first
year, starting with a relatively small annual program and building up
gradually as ADRU's contractor supervision and direct labor capability
increases. ADRU staff will receive food incentives in addition to wages
under the existing incentive program financed and managed by WFP which
has recently been extended to cover GRA and ADRU employees. The chart on
the following page shows the evolution of the Accra District routine and
periodic maintenance progzam. Local contractors will undertake most
periodic maintenance while ADRU will undertake directly routine and some
periodic maintenance. The local contractors will be engaged by ADRU in
accordance with LCB procedures to be agreed at negotiations. ADRU
management and technical personnel will be strengthened by technical
assistance and training which will focus on programming and operation of
continuous road and drainage maintenance (48 staff-months of highway
engineers), and on vehicle and equipment fleet maintenance and operation
(48 staff-months of mechanical engineers). The objective of this
assistance is to build ADRU into a self-contained unit to minimize the
impact on GHA and prepare ADRE for its transfer to ACC.  The assistance
to ADRU is included in the twinning arrangement with Staffordshire County
Council (para 4.06, 4.08). The road completion and rehabilitation draft
final design and the first year's maintenance program will be completed
prior to Board presentation. Further design of the maintenance program
will be undertaken annually on the basis of priority works identified
during each year. ADRU will also engage consultants to undertake the
Central Business District study and will undertake the minor works
ensuing from the study.
Resource Mobilization at Municipal Level
4.05      The resource mobilization component will be the primary
responsibility of ACC and MLG. ACC City Treasurer's Department has
embarked on a program of increased collection of revenues from the most
important sources, primarily property rates, market fees and business
licenses (see paras 5.04-5.12 for details and revenue projections).
This program, begun in January 1985, is based on a revalued property tax
base (as established by MLG Valuation Department) and improved revenue
assessment and collections procedures in the City Treasurer's Department.
Tax rate increases and revenue collection targets identified and
discussed at appraisal were agreed at negotiations and will be reviewed



ACCRA ROAD MAINTENANCE
PERIODIC & ROUTINE PROGRAMS
600 -
500 -
01  400-
n                                             .'
300                        H
-<200 -7
100 -                                     =i                       LE
0
YEAR 1        YEAR 2         YEAR 3         YEAR 4' YEAR 5               YEAR 6
(JAN.-DEC. 1985)
TOTAL PERIODIC         PERIODIC MAINTENANCE  PERIODIC CONTRACT
YEAR      1 0                         DIRECT5LABOR    0   MAINTENANCE        a   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
I        ~~~10                        5                                            1725
2           20                          10                  10                        175
3           30                          15                  15                        300
4            60                         25                  35                        400'
5            75                         30                  45                        500
6           90                          60                  30                        550



- 25 -
annually with the Bank Group on the basis of each year's performance and
ACC revenue requirements for the following year. The City Treasurer's
Department will be strengthened through a technical twinning arrangement
with Staffordshire (UK) County Council, which will provide residential
expert assistance supplemented by periodic short-term visits by
specialist Staffordshire County Council staff and consultancies as
needed. Local consultancies could be carried out in part by the Ghana
Institute of Management and Public Administration (GIMPA), in particular,
design and delivery of workshops for ACC, which it has already
successfully begun, and training for decentralization, a responsibility
it has recently been given by Government. GIMPA, which is an experienced
Goverrment-funded management consulting and training body, could then
offer similar courses to other district government staff under their
normal arrangements.
4.06      The twinning arrangement will assist the Treasurer and other
ACC department heads to introduce a service-oriented accounting system,
to improve financial management, revenue assessment, revenue and debt
collection, and operating budget preparation and control, and to
strengthen internal audit. An initial twinning visit consisting of two
accountants and an engineer, led by Staffordshire's Deputy Clerk who is
also a solicitor, took place from September 24 to October 5, 1984.-
During this visit, the adoption of a new management accounting and
information system was agreed upon and the structure of the coding system
outlined. Detailed action plans for revision of accounting arrangements,
preparation of the 1985 budget, improving revenue collection and debt
recovery procedures, including training arrangements, were agreed with
ACC, and recommendations were made for strengthening the internal audit
function (see detailed report in Pzoject File). A draft legal document
establishing formal twinning arrangements, covering assistance to the
Treasurer's Department, the roads unit and the City Engineer's Department
has been reviewed and agreed by ACC and SCC with minor modifications and
a revised final document will be signed at the next SCC visit to Accra
planned for April 1985. During the April visit, SCC will assist ACC with
the start-up of an accounting/expenditure code, and will review the new
revenue collection and debt recoverv procedures.
Property Revaluation
4.07      MLG Valuation Department will carry out the revaluation of
properties in Accra as the first phase of a national property revaluation
program which will eventually cover all local authorities in Ghana. The
first step in the process, which is underway, is the referencing of
properties not currently on the valuation list. This work is being
carried out by local private sector valuers. The newly-referenced
properties will be valued by the Valuation Department, using current
values, and added to the list. This work is expected to be completed by
December 1985. The revaluation program will require three years, and a
complete revalued list will be available in late 1987 and become
effective January 1, 1988. Technical assistance will be provided to fill
current staffing gaps, carry out the revaluation of properties in Accra
using the vehicles, equipment and local valuer services provided by the



- 26 -
project, and improve management and control techniques. A twinning
arrangement with the Valuation Office of the UK has been agreed by
exchange of letters and is expected to be finalized during a visit of the
Ghanaian Commissioner of Valuation to UK in February 1985.
Technical Assistance
4.08      In response to a Government request to keep external recruit-
ment to a minimum, a particular effort was made in the proposed project
to match both ACC and the Valuation Department with motivated counterpart
entities in UK prepared to exchange technical staff and experience. Out
of a total of 27 staff-years to be provided, 24 are expected to be
through twinning arrangements (see table below).
Summary of Project Technical Assistance
(Figures in staff months)
Tvinning      External
Arrangements      Firms       Total
Long-term Experts
3 Property valuers                     100            -           100
I Valuer trainer                        12            -           12
1 Municipal finance adviser             43            -           43
2 Highway engineers                     48            -           48
2 Mechanical engineers                  48            -           48
1 Project Engineer                       -           36           36
Subtotal                            251           36          287
Short-term Experts
Property valuation                       6            -             6
Municipal finance                       24            -            24
Road maintenance                         6            -             6
Subtotal                             36            -           36
Total                               287           36          323



- 27 -
Contract Services
4.09      Involvement of qualified Ghanaian firms to the maximum extent
possible was sought for the provision of specialized services required in
works design and supervision, property referencing, and a few other areas
not suitable for twinning arrangements. Local Ghanaian firms are
expected to provide 40 of the 55 staff-years of project contract services
(see table below).
Summary of Project Contract Services
(Figures in staff months)
Local       External
Firms         Firms        Total
Property referencing                      360            -           360
Design and supervision                     85           139          224
Project account±ng                         12            -            12
Municipal finance consultancies             -             8            8
ACC finance training                       12             3           15
Decentralization training                   9             2           11
LGTS curriculum revision                    3             1            4
Traffic study                               -            30           30
Total                               481           183           664
Training Activities
4.10      The training needs of the roads unit staff were assessed during
project preparation by an engineering consulting firm with extensive
overseas training experience. The training needs of ACC finance staff
were assessed by a financial training specialist with African experience
from the Institute of Local Government Studies (University of Birmingham,
UK), and those of the Valuation Department by a valuation expert from
Inland Revenue (UK). The training activities in all three areas have
been designed to respond to specific practical needs and to make maximum
use of local training resources.  Where training is to be carried out by
externally recruited personnel, training responsibilities are defined as
being distinct from these experts' technical advisory functions. Some
training needs identified could mot be satisfied through local resources
or by locally-delivered training and, therefore, a limited number of
overseas study tours and overseas courses have been provided for.
4.11      In the case of ACC, for example, workshops for ACC staff are
expected to be designed and carried out by GIMPA, which has already
demonstrated its ability through a short introduction to service-oriented
accounting and budgeting given to ACC senior officers in August 1984.
Due to the need to update GDMPA's knowledge of the state of the art in
local government accounting and budgeting systems, and to design new
modules on decentralization, provision has been made in the project for
specialized assistance from the Institute of Local Government Studies The



- 28 -
project also provides for the printing of manuals of financial procedure
for ACC staff, one mouth of curriculum review of the Local Government
Training School run by MLG, and for teaching equipment, needed by both
GIMPA and LGTS to improve the overall quality of their instruction. Work
on remodeling of LGTS required to add a second classroom is expected to
be completed by mid-1985 so that a first group of travelling trainers can
be trained to take the school's revenue course to local authority staff
outside of Accra. This was judged a more efficient means of expanding
capacity than bringing more students to the school, which would require a
new site and more dormitory space.
4.12      For property valuation training, one of the specialists
recruited from outside will be assigned full-time to revitalizing a weak
existing in-house training program, which will also be provided with
equipment, books and teaching materials. A similar approach will be used
for road maintenance staff training, which will also involve the
participation of experienced GHA personnel such as the engineer now
heading ADRU. The outside engineering specialist, to be recruited
through the twinning arrangement, who is assigned to direct on-the-job
training for ADRU roads staff, will also direct training activities
identified as needed by staff of the City Engineer's Department in ACC.
B. Accounts and Audit
4.13      The Technical Services Center (TSC) will maintain consolidated
accounts for the entire project. Short-term technical assistance will be
provided to assist TSC to set up an appropriate accounting system. The
installation of an accounting system acceptable to IDA will be a
condition of effectiveness. Short-term assistance will also be made
available at the end of the first year of the project to ensure that the
accounts are in order and that financial statements suitable for audit
are drawn up. Submission of such statements within four months of the
close of the financial year and a complete audit report by auditors
acceptable to IDA within eight months of the close of the financial vear
are credit conditions. Statements of expense will be included in the
annual audit and specifically addressed in the audit report.
C. Procurement
4.14      Procurement of road equipment, vehicles, spare parts and office
equipment under the project totals about US$3.6 million, including
contingencies. Two bidding packages will be prepared for vehicles and
civil works equipment, and will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group procurement
guidelines: one for ADRU requirements and one for all other vehicles for
executing agencies. The first package will be managed by the Ghana
Highway Authority and the second by TSC. Road works totalling some
US$10.5 million, grouped into three packages, will also be awarded on the



- 29 -
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. Procurement of these works would be managed by the
Ghana Highway Authority. Consultants' services and training and advisory
services, amounting to a total of about US$7.1 million, will be procured
through twinning arrangements, individual recruitment, or through
reputable firms/agencies on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
Group and in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Procurement of these
services will be managed by TSC. During recruitment, every effort will
be made to advertise in the local market and to attract qualified
Ghanaians presently working abroad before recruiting internationally.
4.15      Works involved in the East Maamobi component comprising roads,
drainage, water distribution, electricity, sanitation and garbage depots,
totalling about US$1.4 million, are not expected to attract international
contractors, and will be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB)
managed by TSC in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank
Group. Materialb (procurement through ICB managed by the Ghana Highway
Authority) for road maintenance and food incentives (procurement managed
by World Food Program) for ADRU staff totalling US$1.9 millior will be
financed under the project for periodic and routine maintenance of the
Accra road and drainage network. Periodic maintenance works totalling
US$400,000 will be awarded to local contractors according to LCB
procedures agreed at negotiations. ADRU will undertake, through force
account, the minor road works (totalling US$770,000) resulting from the
traffic study. Office equipment and supplies totalling about US$260,000
(individual purchases not to exceed US$20,000) will be purchased locally
after at least three quotations are obtained through normal channels in
accordance with Government po;pcedures. Procurement of office equipment
and supplies will be managed by TSC. The following table summarizes the
procurement arrangements to be followed under the project. Land
acquisition and icopensation (totalling US$650,000) will be managed by
MWP. through negotiations with individual land and building owners
according to normal Government procedures. No IDA funds will be involved
in this component.



GHANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANSEMENTS
(US$ '000)
(IDA SHARE IN PARENTHESES)
Procureaent Methods
Number      Principal              ------------------------------------------------------------            Total
of      Responsible                                      Force       Local                             Value of
Project Category/Element                          Packages   Agency/Dept.              ICB           LCD      Account    Shopping      Other        N/A   Procureuent
Civil works
Roads and drainage                                  3           ADRU             10,476.3          0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0   10,476.3
(8,328.0)       (0.0)       (0.0)       (0.0)       (0.0)      ( 0.0) ( 8,328. i)
Contractor periodic maintenance                     I           ADRU                   0.0      405.3         0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0       405.3
( 0.0)    (328.3)       (0.0)       (0.0)       (0.0)      ( 0.0)    (328.3 )
Minor works - Central Business District            N.A.         AORU                   0.0         0.0      771.3          0.0        0.0         0.0       771.3             0
(0.0)       (0.0)   (539.9)         (0.0)       (0.0)      (0.0)   (539.9 )             I
0
Upgrading                                           I           ?WH                    0.0    1,356.7         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    1,35b.7
(0.0) (11098.9)        (0.0)        (0.0)       (0.0)      (0.0) (1,09e.9 )
Vehicles, road equipment,spares, office,
teaching equipment                                Sundry   NWH,ACC,ADRU,ML6        3,363.1          0.0        0.0       258.0         0.0         0.0    3,621.1
(3,329.5)       (0.0)      ( 0.0)    (224.5)        (0.0)      ( 0.0) (3,553.9 )
Materials, food incentives                         Sundry       ADRU,WFP             1,604.5         0.0         0.0         0.0      300.0         0.0    1,904.5
(1,444.0)       (0.0)      ( 0.0)       (0.0)       (0.0)      ( 0.0) (!,444.0)
Technical assistance, consultant services          Sundry   NVH,ACC,ADRU,NLG             0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    7,143.9         0.0    7,143.9
( 0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)        (0.0) (6,707.0)        ( 0.0) (6,707.0)
Land acquisition and compensation                    N.A.         NMH                    0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0      649.4       649.4
(0.0)       (0.0)      (0.0)        (0.0)       (0.0)      (0.0)       (0.0)
IOTAL PROCURENENT VALUES                                                      15,443.9    1,1761.9       771.3       258.0    7,443.9        649.4   26,328.4
(13,101.5) (1,427.2)   (539.9)    (224.5) ( 6,707.0)            ( 0.0) (22,000.0)
WAPUR
February 1985



- 31 -
D. Disbursement
4.16      The IDA credit will be disbursed on the following basis:
Disbursement Categories and Percentages
Category              Item             Amount           Disbursement %
(US$ '000)
I     Civil vorks:
(a) Road and drainage
rehabilitation
and maintenance
Ci) to December 31,
1986               3,400    lOOZ of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures
(ii) thereafter          2,200    10OO  of foreign expenditures
and 10X of local expenditures
(b) Minor works-Central
Business District         600    1002 of foreign expenditures
and 10% of local expenditures
(c) Basic infrastructure
in East Maamobi:
i) to December 31,
1986                 700    100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures
(ii) thereafter            300    1002 of foreign expenditures
and 1OZ of local expenditures
2     Vehicles, equipment, spare
parts, office equipment and
supplies:
(a)  for ADRU                2,300    100% of foreign expenditures
and 9O% of local expenditures
(b) for ntier proiect
executing agencies        300    100% of foreign expenditures
and 9OZ of local expenditures
3     Haterials for road
maintenance:                 1,000    1002 of foreign expenditures



- 32 -
4     Technical assistance,
consultant services
and training:
(a) for Central Business
District Study           800    100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditure
(b) for road and drainage
rehabilitation and
maintenance:
(i) to December 31,
1986                 700    100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures
(ii) thereafter           300    100X of foreign expenditures
and 15% of local expenditures
(c) for basic infrastruc-
ture in East Maamobi     400    100% of foreign expenditures
and 9O% of local expenditures
(d) for property
revaluation            1,400    100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures
(e) for municipal
revenue mobili-
zation                   700    100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures
5     Refunding of project
preparation facility
advances                     1,000
6     Special account                700
7     Unallocated                  5,200
Total                      22.000
4.17      A revolving fund will be established to offset likely delays in
disbursements due to Government cash flow and budgetary procedure
problems. The opening of this account will be a condition of
effectiveness. The fund will be in the form of a special account in a
commercial bank in Ghana and will be managed by TSC. IDA credit proceeds
in the amount of US$700,000 in US dollars will be deposited in the
special account. This amount, representing the equivalent of
approximately four months of total expenditures to be covered from the
revolving fund, should be sufficient to ensure an adequate cash flow.



- 33 -
4.18      Approval of the terms of reference for the Central Business
District Study and of the works proposed by the study will be conditions
of disbursement. Disbursement will be made against statements of
expenditure (SOE) for the following items: (a) contracts of less than
US$10,000 equivalent under all categories; (b) local training programs
approved by the Bank Group; and (c) force account civil works.
Supporting documents will be retained in a central location and made
available for review by visiting Bank Group missions; separate accounts
wlll be established to cover withdrawals on the basis of SOEs, and these
accounts will be subject to special auditing requirements (see
para 4.13). The minimnum size of reimbursement applications under this
project will be US$30,000 equivalent.
4.19      Charts showing the disbursement schedule and implementation
schedule may be found in Annex 4-1.
E. Supervision and Monitoring
4.20      Supervision by IDA staff during the six years of project
implementation will require about 72 staff-weeks. Given the lack of
experience of most of the project beneficiary agencies with management of
Bank Group projects, approximately 75% of this time will be required
during the first three years of project implementation. Bank supervision
missions will require a municipal engineer, a municipal finance
specialist, and a training specialist. Provision will also be made for
consultant services in the areas of property valuation and mechanical
engineering.
4.21      Monitoring of project execution will be the responsibility of
the Chief Technical Director of HWH. Quarterly reports on project
progress will be prepared by TSC and submitted through MWH to the Bank
Group and the relevant Government authorities for comment.  A report on
the progress of the strengthening of ADRU will be prepared annually by
TSC in October for review by ACC, GHA and the Bank Group. ACC will
prepare for review at the same time a report on the finances of the
current year, financing requirement for the next year including provision
for road and drain maintenance, solid waste collection and vehicle
replacement reserves, and projected rate and fee levels required to cover
these expenses. TSC will, within the six months following project
completion, prepare a project completion report.
V. FINANCIAL ATALYSIS
A. General
5.01      The main financial impact of reaching the project objectives
will be to permit the city to sustain a maintenance program that can



- 34 -
obviate the need for costly future rebuilding of existing roads. The
central government's contribution to these objectives will be in the form
of investment in the capital improvements covered in the proposed proj-
ect, that is, road rehabilitation and the infrastructure in East Maamobi.
The municipality's contribution is in the form of ongoing maintenance of
this and other city infrastructure. Revenue mobilization efforts sup-
ported by the project will focus on generating revenues to cover the
operating costs of an ongoing road maintenance program to be supported
through this project and those of a concurrent KfW/GTZ-financed solid
waste and sanitation project, including vehicle replacement reserves. As
a result of the property revaluation and expansion of the valuation list,
the agreed regular increases in property rates and fees and licenses, and
the agreed program of measures to improve collection performance, ACC
should be able to collect revenues (projected to reach e 165 millior
annually in real ternms-1984 cedis-by 1989, four times estimated 1984
revenues) to cover the costs of these key services plus a modest level of
growth in other services (para 5.10). The upgrading of East Maamobi will
also lead to higher property taxes, due to the reclassification of the
area in view of its improved infrastructure. This increase is small in
comparison to the overall citywide increase due to changes in rate levels
and revaluation, but still establishes the principle that areas where
Improvements are made should increase their contribution.
5.02      Water supply costs in East Maamobi will be recovered through
tariffs and charges to residents opting for individual connections.
Charges for metered water were raised from e 2.7 to e 22 per 1,000
gallons as of January 1984, and proposals are in hand for a further
doubling of tariffs in early 1985 as part of the Water Corporation's
program to regain financial viability. The charges are set to cover
operating costs and minimum maintenance. Access to piped water at these
charges represents a substantial savings for most households who have
been spending about I 250 per household per month for water (e 1 a
bucket). Road user charges, gasoline taxes and vehicle duties, taxes and
license fees, which normally contribute to the costs of road programs,
are quite low in Ghana and also require revision. The types and levels
of such charges and the broader issue of how to finance national
(non-urban) road construction and maintenance programs are being
addressed in the Second Reconstruction Import Credit and the Fourth
Highway Project.
B. Municipal Finance
5.03      Tne main problem presently facing ACC is drastic erosion of its
spending power due to insufficiently aggressive response to high rates of



- 35 -
inflation. 10/   In the six years elapsed between FY77 and FY83, the real
value of capital and maintenance expenditure (excluding labor costs)
which are the most publicly visible of ACC expenditures, had fallen by
97%. The primary direct reason was that internal revenue, from which
works spending must be funded, had fallen by 90% in real terms due to
inflation. The real value of government transfers, essentially salary
reimbursements, 11/ fell only about 772, so that total spending fell by
85%. At the same time, the structure of spending shifted in favor of
salaries and away from maintenance and capital works, the latter account-
ing for 10% of total expenditure in FY83 compared to 31% in FY77. These
trends and the major elements of past income and expenditure are shown in
the following table and in Annex 5.
5.04      The two categories of internal revenue which currently make the
largest contribution to the total, and which can most readily be
increased, are the property tax on residential and business property, and
the market and other business charges. The council is legally
responsible for setting the levels of these charges, and has raised them
in the past, but not sufficiently to keep up with inflation, primarily
due to lack of adequate and timely information and to the overly
simplified approach to budgeting and accounting. The share of these two
categories taken together has increased from half to 90% of total
internal revenue over the past six years, as the contribution of other
internal revenues has virtually disappeared, in particular, property tax
paid by Government and the recovery of property tax arrears. In the
medium- to long-term, revenue from all property tax sources, including
the latter two, needs to be pursued. Agreement has already been reached
on procedural improvements to collect from chronic defaulters aed to get
a routine arrears recovery program underway. In particular, the
Solicitor is to hire private lawyers to handle major defaulters, and
Treasury staff are to represent ACC in court for routine collection
cases. Still dramatic increases in current residential and business
property billings and business fees must be the focus of revenue
mobilization efforts over the next few years.
5.05      The main action required to raise revenues from these two
sources is to raise the tax rates. The property rates have not been
raised since 1980, despite inflation rates from 50Z to over 100% per
10/       Details are provided in the Project File, "ACC Finances and
Manpower-Detailed Findings of December 1983 Visit of World Bank
Project Team", April 1984; Memoranda on Accra Resource
Mobilization to ACC Chairman of June 22 and October 6, 1984;
Proposed Revenue Targets for Accra City Council, 1985-89 (July
1984).
11/       Central Government has paid the salaries of all public servants
at the national, regional, and district levels (including ACC)
since FY78.



- 36-
RHANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
ACC Income and Expenditure, l977rB3   (Actuals in Calendar 1977 cedis)
77       78        79       so        1l   a1 82         83
INCaHE
* Tax an residential, commer-
cial, industrial property         2.7      l.6       1.0      1.8       !.2       1.0      0.4
* Business fees                      2.6      1.8       1.3       1.0      0.9       1.0      0.5
*    Subtotal                        5.3      3.4       2.3      2.8       2.1       2.0      0.9
(I total internal)           (501)    (54ZU    (541)    (69V)    (781)    (B62)    (901)
Tax on gov't property                2.2      1.3       0.8       0.5      0.3       0.1     ...
Property tax arrears bl              2.2      0.9       0.9      0.5       O.1      0.1      ...
Latrinelseptic/refuse iees           0.5      0.3       0.2      0.1       0.1       ...     ...
Other income                         0.5      0.4       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.1
Tota!, internal               10.7       6.3      4.4       4.1      2.8       2.3       0.9
fov't payment of salaries           14.-    16.4       11.7     10.4       9.8      7.5       3.3
(I of total)                 (571)    (721)    (731)    (72V)    (78)    (761)    (771)
TOTAL INC3OME                 24.9      22.7      16.1     14.5      12.6      9.8       4.2
EXPENDITURE
Administration                       3.3      4.0       4.5      3.5       2.9       1.4      0.4
Operations cl                       11.9     12.4       7.2      8.8       B.9      3.9       1.5
Raintenance d/                       4.8      2.3       2.3      1.2       0.7      0.3       0.1
Capital                              2.6      1.7       -        0.1       0.2      0.1       0.1
Debt servicing                       1.0      1.3       1.0      O.8       --       --        --
TOTAL EXPENDITURE             23.6      21.7      15.0     14.4      12.7      5.7       2.1
Less than 50,000.            Zero.
a/ Annual average of IE8-o. period from July 1981-December 1982 (change in fiscal year).
bi Excludes 9 million cedis in enbudgeted 'windfall  arrears recovery in 1977.
cl Departments of education, health, engineer and mechanical engineer, including salaries.
dl Cost of materials and work on contract.
* Shown in Chart on page 40.
WAPUR
October 1984



- 37 -
annum. Business fees and license charges have been raised more
frequently, partly because unlike property rates, they were not subject
to review (an administrative custom rather than a legal requirement) by
the MLG (until 1984) and, since then, by the secretary of the Greater
Accra Region. Despite these increases, revenue from business sources has
not kept pace with inflation.
5.06      Other steps required for the property tax are improvement in
collections performance and assessment. Past assessment and collection
performance on business charges has been good, but property tax col-
lections performance has averaged only around 60% over the last four
years. Revenue staff numbers are more than sufficient to the task (about
700 in 1983 out of a total treasurer's staff of about 760). What is
needed is more effective control procedures, staff incentives and, above
all, information to ACC collections staff and to the public as to how tax
increases are going to be used. As for assessment, the completion and
revaluation of the property rolls, which is the responsibility of the
Valuation Division of the MLG, has been handicapped by ar2 insufficient
number of qualified valuers, lack of transport, and inadequate control.
5.07      The current institutional conditions are favorable for a major
revenue push. While past treasurers had tended to run ACC more like a
government department rather than as a revenue-yielding entity, the
current treasurer has more relevant training and knowledge and a good
record. The City Solicitor's post, vacant for several years, was filled
in 1983. The Government has also launched a decentralization plan
designed to devolve decision-making and spending authority to the dis-
trict (local government) level, which also puts new emphasis on internal
revenue efforts. The new treasurer has quickly brought up to date
accounts allowed to fall behind by his predecessor, and has put into
effect a number of new control procedures. ACC also has demonstrated
capability in producing public enlightenment materials in the area of
revenue collection. The proposed efforts to support service delivery
through this project provide an opportunitv to conduct a revenue push
during a period when services will be visibly improving.
5.08      A resource mobilization program involving mutually reinforcing
activities in five areas (accounting systems, revenue, budget, control
and public awareness) has been designed to respond to this opportunity
(Annex 3-4). The program's most important aspect, in terms of long-term
financial yield, will be the updating of the valuation list which is the
most important element of the city's tax base. Two actions are involved:
completing the valuation list and revaluing properties. It has been
estimated that approximately 25% of the properties in the city are not on
the list and therefore are not taxed. The Valuation Department has
agreed to tackle this on a priority basis, and has engaged private sector
valuers to carry out the referencing of the unlisted properties. The
Valuation Department will proceed with the revaluation program which is
expected to increase rateable value of all properties by a factor of 20.
According to the timetable agreed with the Valuation Department, the new
valuation roll is to come into effect on January 1, 1988.



- 38 -
5.09      Simultaneously, ACC will be improving collections performance
and increasing the level of prcperty rates, fees and licenses. ACC has
agreed, through improved controls and enforcement, to improve collections
performance on general rates to at least 70% by 1989 (compared to the
previous six-year average of 66Z), and to double the property rate impost
(property tax rate) for all classes of residential and commercial proper-
ty in 1985, as well as the yield from business fees and license charges.
The council has already voted to double the property rates and raise
business fees, effective January 1, 1985. These increases have been
reviewed and approved by the Greater Accra Regional Secretary. It was
agreed at negotiations that subsequent substantial annual increases in
property rates and business fees will be made, as necessary, to generate
sufficient revenue to cover increased expenditure on road maintenance and
solid waste collection (including provision for vehicle and equipment
replacement). Increases in revenue over and above what is needed for
these priority services could be used to repair schools and build school
toilets and new classrooms, which are one of its responsibilities, and
for basic infrastructure extensions and renewal, which would be a new
area of investment. (ACC bears no debt servicing or repayment obliga-
tions for the IDA credit, and ACC salaries are paid by Government rather
than from internal revenue.)  Incremental internal revenue required for
operation and vehicle renewal funds for street maintenance and solid
waste is expected to start at about ¢ 35 million annually in 1985 (1984
terms) and level off at about e 80 million annually (1984 terms) in 1989.
5.10      The table on the following page shows that growth in revenue
from residential and business property tax and business charges alone can
cover the increase in revenue required (see Annex 5 for details on
assumptions). The graph at the end of this chapter illustrates the
turnaround in revenue from these two categories of revenue which can be
envisaged over the project period. The revenue increases projected were
determined to be those required to generate sufficient funds for the
minimum required road maintenance and solid waste programs plus
sufficient growth in other maintenance and capital expenditures to bring
total expenditures from internal revenue back to roughly the same level
as in the 1976/78 period.  Attaining this level of expenditure from
internal revenue is viewed as a reasonable goal within the timeframe of
the project; beyond the project implementation period a continuing policy
of increases has been agreed, as necessary, to attain a longer term goal
of regaining levels of expenditure equivalent to those of the period
prior to the economic decline of the 1970s. This will permit expansion
of expenditure in areas other than solid waste and road maintenance, for
which the combined level of expenditures would stabilize at about
e 80 million annually ir 1989 (in 1984 cedis).
5.11      While sustaining these kinds of increases will require both a
firm commitment by the Council and some degree of economic recovery, they
are deemed affordable and reasonable. The total property tax bill
increase envisaged in these projections is better than six-fold in
current terms between 1984 and 1987, and more than doubles again by 1989
for a total nominal increase of 15-fold over a five-year period (six- to



- 39 -
GHANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECTED ACC INCOHE AND ITS ALLOCATION 1983-89
INCOME                     1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
(actual)
- - -- (o millions)
Nominal Value (Current Cedis)
Property tax  a/                        8.7   15.5   32.6   71.1  111.6  180.2  270.3
Business fees                          12.1   26.7   42.9   72.6   89.3  123.3  171.5
Subtotal, internal                     20.8   42.2   75.5  143.7  200.9  303.5  441.8
Government salaries reimburse.         73.1  100.0  200.0  210.0  220.5  231.5  243.1
Total                             93.9  142.2  275.5  353.7  421.4  535.0  684.9
Real value in 1984 cedis
Property tax b/                        11.7   15.5   24.1   40.4   55.2   77.7  101.2
Business fees b/                       16.2   26.7   31.8   41.2   44.2   53.1   64.2
Subtotal, internal b/                  27.9  _42.2   55.9   81.6   99.4  130.8  165.4
Government salaries reimburse. c/    98.4  100.0  148.0  155.4  163.2  171.3  180.0
Total Gov't. & internal          126.3  142.2  203.9  237.0  262.6  302.1  345.4
EXPENDITURE
Real value in 1984 cedis
Recurrent from own resources
Waste disposal  d/                      6.8   14.0   20.1   43.6   48.9   52.8   55.2
Road maintenance  et                    0.5    2.5   14.7   16.4   19.2   21.8   24.3
School, market maintenance              3.5    5.0    5.0    5.0    8.0   14.0   23.0
Other                                  14.0   15.0    6.9    6.9    7.9   14.0   22.0
Subtotal                     24.8   36.5   46.7   71.9   84.0  102.6  124.5
(of which vehicle replacement fund)                 (25.4) (37.9) (39.0) (41.0) (42.6)
Capital from own resources
Waste disposal  d/                      -      -       6.2    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.1
Other (schools, infra.)                 3.1    5.7    3.0    9.5   15.1   27.9   40.8
Subtotal                          3.1    5.7    9.2    9.7   15.4   28.2   40.9
Subtotal from own resources            27.9   42.2   55.9   81.6   99.4  130.8  165.4
Government salaries reimburse.         98.4  100.0  148.0  155.4  163.2  171.3  180.0
Total Gov't. & internal          126.3  142.2  203.9  237.0  262.6  302.1  345.4
a/   Excluding Government property and arrears.
b/   Shown in Chart on p. 50 in 1977 constant cedis for comparison purposes.
c/   1983 and 1984 figures are estimates; 1985 figure takes into account nominal
doubling of minimum wage; 1986-89 figures assume 5% real growth per annum.
d/   1983 figure is actual; 1984 figure based on 1984 budget; 1985 and beyond
covers operations, maintenance and vehicle replacement related to
German-supported project (recurrent) and local construction related to
German-supported project (capital).
e/   1983 figure is actual; 1984 figure based on 1984 budget; from 1985,
materials, spares and vehicle replacement related to proposed IDA project.
WAPUR
December 1984



- 40 -
seven-fold in real terms). The increase in the business charges en-
visaged here is less steep but nonetheless substantial. However, the
level of property rates and charges is so low now that a doubling from
1984 to 1985 will result in easily affordable bills for all classes of
property (Annex 5, pages 2-3). The vast majority of residential property
bills currently average around ¢ 50 per house per year or less than
one-tenth of 1% of estimated median annual household income. The
estimated average property tax bill in 1989 would represent about
three-tenths of 1% of estimated 1989 median household income. The
increases proposed over the next five years also seem quite reasonable
considering the recent success of the electricity and water corporations
in raising rates charged to households in Accra, by a factor of 6 to 8 in
the case of water, and are also in line with the Bank's medium-term
objective for overall resource mobilization in Ghana, to double the
current ratio of revenues to GDP from about 8% to about 16Z.
5.12      Should general economic stagnation or consumer resistance to
property and business taxes cause actual collections to fall short of
these levels, Government subvention for road maintenance may need to be
sought, services curtailed, or service-related charges introduced. Both
the road maintenance program and the solid waste project have been
designed to deliver the minimum feasible level of service, so some hard
choices would therefore have to be made. As part of the agreement
between the Council and the Bank, the Bank may review ACC's financial
situation on an annual basis and may suspend disbursements on items
forming part of the revenue mobilization component if ACC fails to use
all means at its disposal to collect the required revenue and allocate it
to these two essential services. ACC has also agreed to a detailed
implementation plan, outlined in Annex 3-4, which contains specific
targets and a timetable for achieving them. The specific targets may be
modified annually in light of experience, but the commitment to improving
service to a minimal level means that, if necessary, other expenditures
paid for out of internal revenue may not increase. The implementation
plan will include the establishment and regular crediting of an equipment
replacement fund. It was agreed at negotiations that Government will
make available to ACC the foreign exchange required to replace its
computer terminals and other financial management equipment, as well as
its vehicle and equipment fleet for road and drainage maintenance and
solid waste management.



A20.tn RE VENUE: PRORERTY RATES & FEES
ACTUALSI FY77-COY3J PROJECTED TO CY89
7-
6
5
w
z    4-
7'    .              -                                     _ 
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
m
'N\ Ex--~~~-
77   78   79   80   81   82   83   84-  85   86   87   88   89
Values in real terms, Arrears excluded.
a   RcRtes+fees                 Rates             Fees



- 42 -
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Economic Benefits and Poverty Impact
6.01      Benefits have been calculated for the road and drainage reha-
bilitation and maintenance component which represents 74Z of project base
costs. The main economic benefits are:
(a) shorter routings for port traffic around Accra due to the
completion of the Motorway/Bypass;
(b) improved running surface on 17.5 km of rehabilitated major
trunk roads; and
(c) improved running surfaced on the 918 km urban road network
due to periodic and routine maintenance introduced by the
project.
Cost-benefit calculTtions (Annex 6) yield economic rates of return (ERR)
ranging from 58% to 125Z on the five road sections being completed or
rehabilitated. The ERR for a consolidated net be-nefit stream for the
five sections is 83%. Economic rates of return for the periodic and
routine maintenance program range from 30X to 46% (consolidated ERR for
maintenance3 39%). The combined ERR for the road component as a whole is
71%. Incorporating the economic costs of all other project components
into the analysis but with no additional benefits yields a combined ERR
of 62%.
6.02      The upgrading of the East Maamobi site, which amounts to about
10% of total project cost, will dramatically improve sanitation and
accessibility in this area. More importantly, it will provide practical
experience to the Technical Services Center team in carrying out this
kind of scheme, to which Government has long been committed but has
lacked a workable approach. Property sale information in the area of the
project and in neighboring areas with better services indicates a
five-fold difference in market sales value for similar building types and
lot sizes. The occurrerce of this kind of one-time increase in property
values within a year of the completion of upgrading works would be
associated with an economic rate of return of over 500%. Even a modest
increase in property values would be associated with high economic
returns. Because of rent control and the artificially low level of
present enforced rents, most property owners are not expected to invest
in building improvements, and renters would not be expected to suffer
from rent increases or displacement (see Annex 6 for details). The



- 43 -
primary justification for this component, however, is that it demon-
strates a low-cost, workable approach to upgrading other densely settled,
underserviced areas in Accra.
6.03      A comparison of a 1984 urban poverty threshold of US$112 per
capita per year, calculated according to standard Bank methodology with
1984 survey data from East Maamobi, implies that about 25% of residents
fall below the poverty threshold. However, evidence from this survey and
findings of the Bank's recent economic mission indicate that two-thirds
to 100% of project area residents and 50-902 of Accra's residents have
been consuming nutritionally substandard diets, despite use of savings
and interfamily transfers to supplement monetary earnings and allocation
of 85% of expenditures to food purchases. Even with recent food price
decreases due to the first good rains in several years, it is clear that
economic hardship has been particularly widespread for a prolonged period
of time and that, given the unusual circumstances, a large proportion of
residents must be considered poor for some time to come. If the poverty
threshold in Accra is conservatively taken to be around the 50% income
percentile, then about half of project beneficiaries would fall below the
threshold, given that 9OZ of the project is expected to benefit all
residents equally and the remaining 10% East Maamobi residents.
B. Risks
6.04      The risks involved in the project are (a) that ACC will not be
able to sustain sufficient political backing to approve and collect the
major increases in rates required to continue funding improved road
maintenance and refuse disposal; (b) that project implementation will
suffer due to the difficulty of attracting and keeping qualified Ghanaian
staff; and (c) that the Government may not be able to finance its share
of project costs. Concerning the ACC rate increases, major increases for
1985 agreed at appraisal have already become effective and an annual
review process vas agreed at negotiation to assure continuing sufficient
increases. The rehabilitation of roads with assistance from this project
and the improvements in refuse collection through bilateral aid from
KfW/GTZ will provide ACC with important political capital with which to
convince ratepayers that ACC can deliver higher levels of service. A
sustained public enlightenment campaign, which is also receiving support
through the project, has been designed to convey this message to city
residents. The campaign has already begun by presentation to the public
of the 1985 increases and their justification. The shortage of qualified
personnel is a risk affecting virtually all undertakings in Ghana due to
chronic national 'brain drain". This shortage will ease as economic
conditions improve and expatriate Ghanaians return. To ensure that the
Government makes available funds to finance the project, a revolving fund
for the counterpart contribution will be established and funded on a
monthly basis. Also, the project is part of the Government's core
Investment program and will receive priority in capital investment
allocations. Finally, the Government's counterpart contribution
represents a minor share of total projected capital expenditure.



- 44 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      Prior to negotiations the following actions were taken:
(a) a draft twinning agreement was reviewed by ACC, SCC and
the Bank Group and agreed in substance (para 4.06);
(b) a twinning arrangement was agreed through an exchange of
letters between the Commissioner of Valuation and the UK
Chief Valuer, (para 4.07); and
(c) substantial increases in property rates and fees and
licenses to levels agreed with the Bank were voted by ACC
and approved by the Regional Secretary to become effective
January 1, 1985 (para 5.09).
7.02      During negotiations the following were reviewed and agreed:
(a)  the timetable for transferring ADRU from GRA to ACC
including an annual review of progress toward the transfer
by the Bank Group, GHA and ACC (para 2.10 and Annex 4-2);
(b) a detailed implementation plan to carry out the above
program, including an annual review to assure adoption of
adequate rate increases and collections targets, and
establishment of a vehicle replacement fund (paras 3.09,
5.09, 5.12 and Annex 3-4);
(c) procedures for the timely contribution of Government's
share of project financing to the project executing
agencies (para 3.13); and
(d) progress reporting, accounting and auditing content and
deadlines (para 4.13 and 4.21).
(e) a revenue mobilization program to increase ACC revenues
sufficiently to allow ACC to sustain expanded road
maintenance and waste collection programs by improving
collections, including arrears, and raising rate and fee
levels (paras 5.04-5.12);
(f) the timetable for referencing of unvalued properties and
the revaluation of all properties in Accra bv MLG Val-
uation Department (para 5.08);
(g) the legal obligation of the Government to make available
to ACC the foreign exchange necessary for replacement of
equipment required for financial management and
infrastructure maintenance (para 5.12);



- 45 -
7.03.     The following assurance was sought and obtained:  TSC will
recruit a project engineer to be on post by August 31, 1985 (para 4.02).
7.04      As conditions for credit effectiveness, the following will be
required:
(a) installation of an appropriate accounting system
acceptable to the Association for keeping consolidated
accounts for all components of the project (para 4.13);
(b)  opening of a special account in a commercial bank in Ghana
into which IDA revolving fund contributions will be
deposited (para 4.17);
7.05      As conditions of disbursement:  terms of Reference for the
Accra Central Business District traffic study, as vell as the works to be
proposed by this study, will be reviewed and approved by the Bank Group
before funds are disbursed for these components of the project (para
4.18).
7.06      On the basis of the above actions, agreements and assurances,
the proposed project will be suitable for an IDA credit of US$22 million
on standard terms.
WAPUR
February 1985



-46-                                            ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 4
GHANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
(BASE COST AT DEC. 19841
(CEDI '000)
LOCAL      TAES    FOREIGN    TOTAL
ROAD/DRAINAGE REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE
Civil Morks
Motorway II - Liberation Rd. to Nsauam Rd.     13,182.0    6,591.0  46,137.0  65,910.0
Motorway III - Nsawaa Rd. to Winneba Rd.       22,850.0   11,425.0  19,975.0  114,250.0
Isamse  Rd. - Ring Rd. to Motorway              9,500.0   4,750.0  33,250.0  47,500.0
Nsawas Rd. - Motorway to Achimota Village      20,137.0   10,068.5  70,479.5  100,685.0
Ring Rd. - Liberation Rd. to Nsawam Rd.         7,364.0   3,682.0  25,774.0   36,020.0
Ring Rd. - Nsawaa Rd. to Hinneba Rd.            4,909.0   2,454.5  17,181.5  24,545.0
Maintenance
Vehicles, Equipment, Spare Parts               16,535.2        0.0  110,658.8  127,194.0
Materials, Fuel, Lubricants                     5,905.0        0.0  53,145.0   59,050.0
Food Incentives                                 5,250.0        0.0   9,750.0   15,000.0
Contractor Periodic Maintenance                 7,000.0    1,400.0   5,600.0   14,000.0
Technical Assistance
Highway Engineers (21 48 sos.                       0.0        0.0  24,000.0  24,000.0
Mechanical Engineers (2) 40 sos.                    0.0        0.0  24,000.0  24,000.0
Short-term Assistance 6 mos.                        0.0        0.0    3,600.0   3,600.0
Design and Supervision                             10,132.5        G.O  40,529.8  50,662.3
Traffic Study
Consultant Services                             8,000.0        0.0  32,000.0  40,000.0
Minor Harks                                     6,000.0    3,000.0  21,000.0  30,000.0
TOTAL BASE COST                                   136,764.7  43,371.0  597,090.6  777,216.3
Physical Contingencies                             14,635.3   5,985.7  57,859.9  78,480.9
Price Contingencies                                23,695.8    8,907.5  98,002.3  130,605.5
GRAND TOTAL                                       175,095.8  58,264.1  752,942.8  986,302.7
MAPUR
HAPUR
February 198S



- 47 -                                           ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 4
6HANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
(BASE COST AT DEC. 1904)
(CEDI '000)
LOCAL      TAXES     FOREISN     TOTAL
3ST MAANODI UP6RADIN6
Civil Harks
Roads                                             3,600.0    1,600.0   12,600.0   18,000.0
Drainage                                          2,662.0    1,331.0    9,317.0   13,310.0
hater Supply                                        876.8      584.5    4,393.8    5,945.0
Electricity                                         571.5      571.5    4,572.0    5,715.0
Sanitation                                          704.0      704.0    5,632.0    7,040.0
Pefuse Containers                                   396.3        0.0    2,652.2    3,048.5
Design and Supervision                                2,249.9         0.0   14,000.1   16,250.0
Land Acquisition and Compensation                    32,470.0        0.0         0.0   32,470.0
Vehicles and Equipment
Office Equipment and Supplies                       225.0        0.0    1,275.0    1,500.0
Vehicles (2)                                        175.5        0.0    !.174.5    1,350.3
technical Assistance
Project Manager 36 3s0.                               0.0        0.0   19,000.0   18,000.0
Short-term Assistance 18 mos.                         0.0        0.0    7,200.0    7,200.0
Study Visit's                                        25.0        0.0      225.0       250.0
TOTAL BASE COST                                      43,956.0    4,991.0   81,031.5  129,978.5
Physical Contingencies                                1,5B6.6      749.7    6,268.5    8,603.8
Price Contingencies                                   1,309.1      648.1   10,440.6   12,397.8
GRAN  TOTAL                                          46,851.7    6,387.7   97,740.7  150,980.1
NAPUR
February 1985



-48 -                                      ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 4
GHANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIHATES
IBASE COST AT DEC. 1984)
(CEDI '000)
LOCAL        TAXES  FOREIGN     TOTAL
PROPERTY REVALUATION
Technical Assistance
Valuers (31 100 nos                                 0.0        0.0   50,000.0  50,000.0
Yaluer/Trainer 12 sas                               0.0        0.0   7,200.0   7,200.0
Short-tern Assistance 6 mos                         0.0        0.0   3,600.0    3,600.0
Private Sector Consultancies                        16,000.0        0.0       0.0  16,000.0
Vehicles and Equipment
Vehicles (4)                                      390.0        0.0   2,610.0    3,000.0
Motorcycles (201                                  143.0        0.0      957.0-   1,100.0
Spare Parts                                        65.0        0.0      435.0      500.0
Office/Field Equipment                            375.0         0.0   2,125.0   2,500.0
Training                                             1,525.0       0.0    4,575.0    6,100.0
TOTAL BASE COST                                     18,498.0        0.0  71,502.0   90,000.0
Physical Contingencies                               1,849.8       0.0    1,070.2   2,920.0
Price Contingencies                                  1,94.4        0.0  14,303.8  16,248.2
GRAND TOTAL                                         22,292.2       0.0  86,876.0  109,168.2
NAPUR
February 1985



-49-                                         AINEX 3-1
Page 4 of 4
ANSHA: ACCRA DISTRICT REIHABILITATION PROJE4T
DETAiLED COST ESTIMTES
(BASE COST AT DEC. 1904)
(CEDI '000)
LOCAL       TAXES  FOREIGN    TOTAL
MUNICIPAL REVENUE MOBILIlATION
Technical Assistance-Thinning
Municipal Finance Expert 43 mos.                   0.0        0.0  21,500.0  21,500.0
Short-term Assistance B mOs.                       0.0        0.0   4,800.0   4,800.0
Twinning Visits 24 eos.                            0.0        0.0   9,600.0   9,600.0
Training
ACC and Decentralization                       3,900.0        0.0   2,600.0   6,500.0
External Training/Study Tours                      0.0        0.0   2,500.0   2,500.0
Short-tere Assistance - L6TS 4 eos.              150.0        0.0     600.0      750.0
Vehicles, Equipment and Katerials
Vehicles (3)                                     455.0        0.0   3,045.0   3,500.0
Computer Herdware/laterials                      292.5        0.0   1,957.5   2,250.0
Publicity Equipment/Materials                    500.0       0.0   1,500.0   2,000.0
Vehicles - L6TS (21                              422.5        0.0   2,827.5   3,250.0
Teaching Equipment - L6TS                        375.0        0.0   2,125.0   L,500.0
TOTAL BASE CMST                                    6,095.0       0.0  53,055.0  59,150.0
Physical Contingencies                               594.5       0.0   1,655.5   2,250.0
Price Contingencies                                  776.7       0.0   7,793.3   B,567.0
GRAND TOTAL                                        7.466.2       0.0  62,500.8  69,967.0
NAPUR
February 1985



-50 -                   ANNEX 3-2
GHANA
ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Total Cedi Contribution by Government
(Cedi millions)
Base Cost      Annual      Inflation       Total
Financing by  Inflation      Factor         Annual
Project Year          Government     Rate %                    Contribution
Year 1 (1985) a/         28.77         30           1.15           33.08
Year 2 (1986)            41.61         15           1.40           58.26
Year 3 (1987)            52.16         15           1.61           83.98
Year 4 (1988)            15.24         15           1.85           28.20
Year 5 (1989)             4.58         10           2.08            9.53
Year 6 (1990)             2.44         10           2.28            5.57
Total              144.80                                    218.62
a/ for 6 months
WAPUR
February 1985



-51-                                    ANNEX 3-3
6HANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT CASH FLOMl
(CEDI MILLIONS)
Year I    Year 2      Year 3     Year 4     Year 5    Year 6
Total      CYB5        cY86       CY87       CY8Q       CY89       CYYO
SOURCES
IDA Credit                                     1,100.0      100.0      180.0      340.0      280.0      133.4       66.6
Colinancing                                       30.0       17.4        7.8        4.8        0.0        0.0        0.0
Sovernient Contribution a/                       186.4       29.9       47.0       64.2       27.6       11.5        6.2
Total Sources                                  1,316.4      147.3      234.8      409.0      307.6      144.9       72.8
APPLICATIONS
Resource 'labilization
Property Revaluation                          109.2       22.9       36.3       24.1       23.5        2.4        0.0
Municipal Revenue Mobilization                 70.0       25.9       22.1       12.8        4.6        2.9        1.6
Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Roads and Drainage                            986.3      273.5      281.3      309.4       94.0       17.0       11.1
East Naamubi Upgrading                        151.0       65.9       67.1       10.2        6.8        1.0        0.0
Total Applications                             1,316.4      388.1      406.8      356.4      128.9       23.4       12.7
Surplus {Deficit)                                  0.0    -240.8      -172.0       52.6      178.7      121.5       60.1
Cumulative Surplus (Deficit)                               -240.8    -412.8      -360.2     -191.5      -60.1        0.0
aJ Base costs plus contingencies calculated on the basis of foreign rates
of inflation. Estimated total cedi contribution is to be based on
contingencies calculated using local rates of inflation as indicated
in Annex 3-2.
APLIR
February 1985



- 52 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 3
GHANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
REVENUE MOBILIZATION COMPONENT
DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Status as at 11/84.
Further details in municipal finance working papers in Project
File.
A. REVENUE COLLECTION
1. Level of Charoes
Fees and charges were raised by Council effective 1/84. Proposed
1985 levels for these and for property rates were reviewed with
SCC and WB team in Sept/Oct. Council approved 1985 rate and fee
levels in November 1984, to be double the 1984 levels.
New fee and rate levels go into effect in 1985. To be reviewed
annually and revised as required to sustain income required for
road maintenance ar,d solid waste programs. Targets for 1986-89
shown in Chapter V and Annex 5 of WB Staff Appraisal Report.
Z1- Collection Taroets
1984 targets set by Council are too low. 1985 targets shall be
set to levels corresponding to amounts shown in 1985 estimates.
This will involve introducing target for cashiers at ACC head-
quarters. 1985 revenue estimate shall be based on agreed
feasible collections levels of 80% of total assessment for fees
and charges and 60% for current property rates (residential plus
commercial). Recommendations for improved procedures set out in
report of initial SCC twinning team Sept/Oct 1984.
Targets to be revised annually hereafter. Beginning in 1985 for
1986 and beyond. tarQZts also to be established for all other
collection points (markets, lorry parks, kiosks, landlords,
building permits section). Beginning in 1985, bonus should be
given annually to an area office on the basis of verified total
collections. Target for 1989: at least 70% of property billings
to be collected, 90% of fees and license charges. See also Annex
5 of WB Staff Appraisal Report.
3j, Enforcement
Solicitor's Department staff to be brought from one to four by
recruitment of three Court Clerks by early 1985. Routine debt
collection to be delegated to Treasury Staff. Reviewed and
agreed between SCC team head and Solicitor in Sept/Oct 1984.
On the basis of experience in 1985, procedures and assignments
for debt collection to be reviewed and adjustments made to allow
arrears collection amounts to be estimated on a realistic basis
and included as a regular source of revenue. Issues of debts
outstanding from parastatal entities and of increase required in
6overnment contribution in lieu of full assessment of tax assess-
able on the value of Government property to be resolved.



53 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 3
4. Public Awareness Campaian
Program has been designed and budgets drafted by ACC Public
Relations Officer with emphasis on responsiveness to public.
PRO's proposals available in Project File. Implementation began
November 1984. Timing of further implementation to be
coordinated with timing of scheduled improvements to be made
throughout the project period in roads and solid waste
collection and in the upgrading of East Maamobi.
---------------------------------------------------------------__
B. PLANNING AND BUD6ETING
1. Settinn priorities, departmental action plans
SCC Deputy Clerk visited Accra June 1984. ACC Treasurer visited
Stafford for three weeks July/August 1984, with focus on budget
and maintenance operations. Guidelines to department heads for
converting over to a service-oriented accounting and budgeting
system from the present "wish list" approach were presented
during two-day GIMPA workshop for department heads and senior
staff in August 1984. Process of converting over shall begin
with the 1985 estimates. See also Accounting Systems below.
Experience with 1985 priorities and action plans will be reviewed
at midyear 1985 and procedures and content revised as needed.
Beginning in 1986. a three-year rolling financial plan will be
prepared, allowing after a trial period of at least two years,
introduction of an integrated or consolidated District budget
which Government has said it will require to implement its
decentralization program.
----------------------------------------------------------------
C. ACCOUNTIN6 SYSTEMS AND CONTROL
1. Accounting Systems
Accounts were brought up to date through 1983 and bank
reconciliations were current as at September 1984. Draft
estimates for 1985 will be prepared using new coding system whose
structure was agreed with SCC team in Sept/Oct; priorities and
action plans of city operating departments will be translated
into expenditure and revenue code items to form 1985 estimates.
System will operate manually until automated management
information system fully operative.
2. Manauement Information System
ACC Programmer ran tests of automated processing of revenue
expenditure data on a weekly basis in July 1984 using Central
Bureau of Statistics' computer located at some distance from lCC
headquarters. This arrangement unsuitable in the long run.
Operation of a fully automated accounting and management
information system can begin9following delivery of in-house
terminals to be hardwired to Bank of Ghana mainframe next door in
early 1985. Agreement signed by Director of Bank of Ghana and
ACC Chairman in September 1984. Funds for hardware purchase, new
billing forms for property tax and overseas training of



- 54 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 3
Programmer on new system included in PPF Supplemental Request
submitted by Government of Ghana in November 1984. Programmer
went on 2-mo. IBM training course in UK October 15, 1984.
Invoices for hardware and billing forms order ready for
processing November 1, 1984.
Experience with accounts coding system and management information
system will be reviewed at midyear 1985. Workshops on the new
accounting system and on output management and productivity and
forward output/resource planning and analysis shall be designed
and offered at GIMPA during second half of 1985. Draft manuals
shall be prepared and made available to all staff including
clerical during second half of 1985. For details on training and
preparation of manuals, see Accra report of Institute of Local
Government Studies consultant John Hill (Birmingham, UK) dated 28
September 1984, included at end of Sept/Oct 1984 twinning report.
After testing for one year, draft manuals will be critiqued by
staff, revised and disseminated. GIMPA course on decentralization
procedures could be offered in 1986 but not until ACC workshop
series has been completed.
, Desion of forms and procedures for control
Forms in use are standard and serviceable but could be improved
to maximize accountability and minimize fraud. New forms for
general rate demand notices, business licenses, individual
collections records, etc, will be printed as soon as possible.
Forms, procedures and reassignment of duties and authority
will be designed and tested on a trial basis beginning January
1985.
Forms and procedures which have been tested and proven workable
will be included in the draft manuals.
3. Audit
Recommendations on restructuring of internal and external audit
contained in GIMPA report of June 1984 by D. Obeng were reviewed
and commented on by SCC team in Sept/Oct. 1984.
Current arrangements are deemed satisfactory and audit reports
are prepared within a reasonable time. Structural improvements
could make better use of staff and reduce unnecessary duplication
of effort by internal and external audit sections.
WAP11R
October 1984



ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 3
GHAA,: ACCRA DISTRICT REH4BILITATION PROJECT
IKPL.UZRTATION SCHEDULE
1984    1   1985    1   1986    /   1987    /   1988    /   1989    1   199O
1 2  3  4  1  2  3  41  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  l  2  3 4  1 2  3  4  1 2  3  4
NBC ED 1F
rroject Processing                         1    K x
Property Revaluation                                                            X Now Valuatlon roll In *ffect 1V88
Property rdf *r eSnci   t360 )_. ,_
3 ValUers (100m)                             r
Valuer/trainer (12in)                            rrrrrrh _
unort-tezn assistanee (6E1)                                 T      T    T    T    T    T
Overseas tralning                                      oooooooooooooooooao0oaooooooooooooooooooooo0con
Local trainlag                                         111111121111
Lclpal Rovonue Mobilization          K           x            K           K           K            K           R
Tax Increase   Tax Inr.  Tax Incr.   Tax  acr.  Tax icr.  TaSx  aer. Tax lncr.
Usrs  * local trainitg            oL ooa    1   11   ooo I   1      1   1            1           1           1
:ounting & Managment                   K Now accounts code 12/84
IaformtLon systems                      K Computer delivery 2/85
K First MIS report 4185
Financial manuals                             K Draft 7/8S  K Final 9/86
xrt-term assistance (2444..)     T  T      T    T        T          T           T           T             T
.ci pal. Finance Repert (43o)             TZ                         _
-id I draina   rehabilitation                K                              K
I maintean4ce                          Start-up road asintenance a/    ACC takeover of ADRC 12/87
.- als I equIpment                        pppbbb      dd              dd
Lodic uaintnancoe                      ppbb pm MpbbgxIoI ooeIppbb ,----pbb-n--p-pb    _ AX           pbb
kgifn.er .zperts (96Em)                 rr.r.r             _
ir-toe  assistance (6Em)            T       T    T         T         T           T            T
*--affic study (30    . & works                   seassssssasppppbb
ad civil works
Rev Notorway link            assess   pppppppbbbbb
Neave  lRod rehabilitation  ssesse   pp
notoarmy rehabilitation     assess   pppppppbbbbb 
Ring load rehabilltatin    assess   pppp                   bbbbb       bbxx=cz
It Maauobi Upgrading
Pject Manager (3NM-)                                           --------
d.tdrams/water supply               ppppppbbbb          _
actrielty/refuse containers         pppppp      bbbbz, -
See Chart showing load Maintenance programs  on p.32
rz
* recrultment     T - twinntng visit                  b - biddins evaluation/award   o - overeas training
* arrival         a*  study                           d - delivery                    1 - local training
stay              p - final design specifications    x - execution                   K - other key det
-Pu
Iembr 1984



- 56 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 3
GHANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Z Cumulative Expenditure
100%.
90 _
dv
80                                                      o
V *#
70                              ,"                -
6.0                   /                   ." 
60.
50                                  I,* 
'O_     //'/- ' 
20
10
/~~ /
20~~~~~~~~00
10
86       87        88        89        90         91      1 92        93 Fisc-al
I          ~~~Years
Expected     I
-Project
Completion
(March 91)
_        project Profile
--    West Africa, all IDA
Urban, all Regions
WAPUR
February 1985



ANNEX 4-1
57 -           Page 3 of 3
Disbursement                         Disbursement
Quarter           each                  Quarter         each
Ending            quar.   Cum.    2   Ending            quar.   Cum.   z
(US$ million)                        (US$ million)
FY86                                    FY90
September     1.7      1.7     8        September    0.8   20.4   93.0
December      0.3      2.0     9       December      0.4   20.8   95.0
March         0.4      2.4    11        March        0.4   21.2   96.0
June          0.9      3.3    15       June          0.2   21.4   97.0
FY87                                    FY91
September     1.1      4.4    20       September    0.2   21.6   98.2
December       1.2     5.6    25        December     0.1   21.7   98.6
March          1.7     7.3    33       March          '.1  21.8   99.1
June          1.7      9.0    41       June          0.05  21.8   99.3
FY88                                    FY92
September     1.7    10.7    49         September    0.05  21.9   99.5
December       1.7    12.4    56       December      0.05  21.9   99.8
March          1.6    14.0    64        March        0.05  22.0  100.0
June          1.6    15.6    71
PY89
September     1.4    17.0    77
December       1.0    18.0    82
March         0.8    18.8    85
June          0.8    19.6    89
Note:  Assumes an Initial disbursement of US$1.0 million to refinance
PPF advances, the establishment of a US$700,000 milliom revolving fund
in the first quarter of FY86 and up to 90% IDA financing of local
expenditures (for a maximum of US$2.0 million) through the second
quarter of FY87. Also, generally assumes an average lag between
expenditure and disbursement of 12 months for the first year's
expenditure and 18 months thereafter. Project disbursement pace is
still expected to exceed the urban and regional averages because
front-loading of IDA contribution for local expenditures and a revolving
fund for foreign payments will at least partially free the project from
Government cash flow and budgetary procedure delays.
WAPUR
February 1985



-58-                   ANNE  4-2
Page 1 of 3
GHANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Responsibilities - Road and Drainage
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Component
The Accra District Roads Unit (ADRU) will be under the techni-
cal guidance of the Ghana Highway Authority (GRA) until no later than
December 31, 1987, when ADRU will be transferred to the Accra City
Council (ACC). Responsibilities of these agencies, as well as those of
the Technical Services Center (TSC) of the Ministry of Works and Housing
- the coordinating body for the project as a whole for the implementa-
tion of the component, are described below.
A.   GHA will:
1)   Provide managing expertise through the secondment of not more
than one GRA expert, who will head the unit, for a period of
three years beginning on or around December 31, 1984.
2)   Support the procurement needs of road equipment, vehicles,
spare parts, etc., through (a) the placing of orders to be
delivered to the workshops of ACC, based on the specifica-
tlons, bidding documents, evaluation and recommendations
prepared by the consultants being financed under the project;
(b) undertake to approve payment for such procurement upon
certification received from the ACC to the respective sup-
plier; and Cc) -repare the corresponding disbursement applica-
tions for furtk   processing by TSC through the Ministry of
Finance for IDA aisbursement.
3)   Support the procurement of civil works through prequalifying,
advertising, tendering, evaluatlng, awarding and supervising
the implementation of civil works to be carried out with the
technical assistance of the consultants supplied for that
purpose. The review of these functions will be the respon-
sibility of the managing expert supplied by GHA. In addition,
GXA will award these contracts, certify payment certificates,
and prepare the corresponding disbursement applications for
further processing by TSC. GRA will retain overall respon-
sibility for civil works until their completion. However,
ADRU will have operational responsibility for works super-
vision until transfer to ACC, and consultants engaged by GHA
for supervision of contractors will work directly with ADRU.
After the transfer, supervision consultants will vork with and
report to the Greater Accra regional office of GSA.
4)   Make budgetary provision for Government's contribution to the
component including civil works, and material, fuel and



-59 -                 ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 3
salaries for direct labor road maintenance by ADRU, as well as
the cost of periodic road maintenance by contractors. After
the transfer of ADRU to ACC, GHA will budget only for civil
works until their completion.
B.   ADRU vill:
1)   Plan, design and implement the Accra District routine and
periodic road maintenance program under the technical guidance
of GRA, with the participation of ACC and the help of consul-
tants and technical assistance. This will include the engage-
ment and supervision of local contractors for periodic mainte-
nance.
2)   Supervise road rehabilitation works financed under the project
(under the overall responsibility of GRA) through consultants
engaged by GHA. This responsibility will cease when ADRU is
transferred to ACC.
C.  ACC will:
1)  Make budgetary provision for a portion of the road maintenance
program to be carried out by ADRU.
2)   Second technical personnel to ADRU to assist In the inspection
of maintenance works.
3)   Assume full responsibility, after the transfer of ADRU from
QUA, for the road maintenance program, including budgetary
provision for all maintenance activities (direct labor and
contract) including salaries, materials, fuel and contractor
costs.
4)   Take delivery and assure the maintenance of vehicles and
equipment procured by GHA under the project for the Accra
District road maintenance program. The equipment will be
maintained in ACC's district road workshop for the exclusive
use of ADRU.
D.   TSC will:
1)  Maintain the consolidated accounts of the project, including
those relating to the road and drainage rehabilitation and
maintenance component. TSC will obtain the necessary data
and documentation on civil works, equipment and materials.
procurement, delivery and completion from ADRU, GRA and ACC in
order to maintain the project accounts.
2)   Prepare and process disbursement applications for presentation
to the Bank Group. In the case of activities under GHA
direction, this will involve completion of processing through



-60-                  ANNEX 4-2
Page 3 of 3
the Ministry of Finance to the Bank Group after preparation of
the disbursement applications by GRA.
3)  Maintain bank accounts for the project (including the road
component), including revolving fund accounts for both foreign
and local expenditures, and make payments from those accounts
for project expenditures certified by ADRU, GHA and ACC.
E.  Progress toward the transfer of ADRT to ACC will be re'-riewed
annually (in conjunction with the annual review of the GHA budget
in October) by the Bank Group, GRA and ACC, and adjustments made in
the transfer timetable if necessary. The review will also cover
possible transfer of maintenace responsibility for trunk roads in
Accra District to ACCIADRU depending on the technical capability of
ADRU and the financial strength of ACC at the time of the transfer
of ADRU from GHA.
WAPUR
December 1984



-61-                                          AN=EX 5
TA6LE                                         Page 1  of 8
GHANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
ACCRA CITY COUNCIL: NOMINAL VALUE OF GENERAL RATES EXCLUDING ARREARS
1980-1983 ACTUAL - '000 OF CURRENT CEDIS
BILLINGS
FY90       FY8!    a/ FY92        19B3       1984    b/ 1985
NON-MOVERNMENT PROPERTIES
IST CLASS RESIDENTIAL
RATEABLE VALUE (CEDI MILLIONS)            28         38          38         42         45          49
RATE IMPOST (RATE IN CEDI)           0.01832    0.03665    0.03665    0.03665    0.03665       0.0733
AMOUNT BILLED (CEDI THOUSANDS)           513        1393       1393       1539        1649       3592
2ND CLASS RESIDENTIAL
RATEABLE VALUE (CEDI MILLIONS)           442        450         450        500        500         550
RATE IMPOST (RATE IN CEDI)           0.0116B    0.02285    0.022B5    0.02295    0.02295       0.0457
AMOUNT BILLED (CEDI THOUSANDS)          5163      10293       10293      11425       11425      25135
3RD CLASS RESIDENTIAL
RATEABLE VALUE (CEDI NILLIONS)            17        19.6       18.6         20         20          22
RATE IMPOST (RATE IN CEDI)            0.0115     0.0225      0.0225     0.0225     0.0225       0.045
AMOUNT BILLED (CEDI THOUSANDS)           196        419         419        450        450         99O
SUBTOTAL, NON-GOY6ERNENT
RATEABLE VALUE (CEI MILLIONS)           487      506.6       506.6        562        565         621
RATE IMPOST (AVERAGE)                0.01206    0.02387    0.02-387    0.02387    0.02394    0.04785
AMOUNT BILLED (CEDI THOUSANDS)          5871      12094       12094      13414       13524      29717
FIRMS AND CORPORATIONS
RATEABLE VALUE (CEDI  UILLIONS)          9.4        9.4         9.6         45          90         90
RATE IMPOST (RATE IN CEDI)             0.042      0.126       0.126      0.126      0.126       0.252
AMOUNT HILLED (CEDI THOUSANDS)           395        1184       1210       5670      11340       22680
INDUSTRIES
RATEABLE VALUE (CEDI MILLIONS)           6.3        6.3         6.3          a        8.2         8.2
RATE IMPOST (RATE IN CEDI)            0.0395     0.1155      0.1155     0.1155     0.1155       0.231
AMOUNT BILLED (CDI THOU SANDS)          243        728         728        924        -947       1994
TOTAL, 6ENEAL RATES
PATE ABLE VALUE (CEDI MILLIONS)          503        522         523        615        663         729
RATE IMPOST (AVERA6E)                0.01295    0.02682    0.02685    0.03253    0.03892    0.07447
AMOUNT BILLED (CEDI THOIJSANDS)        6,508     14,006      14,031     20,009     25,911      54,291
COLL ECTIONS
AMOUNT COLLECTED cl                   6,023      7,139       9,630      8,703     15,497      32,575
PERCENT OF BILLS COLLECTED             0.93       0.5!        0.69       0.43       0.60        0.60
VALUE OF AMOUNTS COLLECTED IN 1977 CEDIS
ACCRA PRICE INDEX (1977 = 100)                   327        575         882       22089      291         3975
CONVERSION FACTOR TO 1977 CEDIS                0.306      0.174       0.113      0.045      0.034       0.026
YALUE F COLLECTIONS IN 1977 CEDIS              1,842      1,242       1,092        394        520         841
a/ The adjustment period July-Deceeber 1982 !change from July-June to Jan-Dec fiscal year) has been omitted
so that all columns shown represent twelve-month periods.
bl These rate imposts for 1985 were agreed on with ACC in October 1984.
el Collections are estimated for 1994 assuming a 60% collection rate.
NAPUR
October 1984



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 8
TABLE IA
ACCRA CITY COUNCIL
PROPERTY RATE IMPOSTS: 1984 ACTUAL AND-1985 PROPOSED
FIRST CLASS RESIDENTIAL AREAS
1984 TOTAL RATEABE VALUE: 45 MILLION CEDIS (8Z TOTAL NON-GOV)
RATE IMPOST: 3.665 PESEWAS IN CEDI
BILLIN6: 1.649.250 CEDIS
AVERAGE 1984 BILL TO OUNER: $448 (EST.) RARELY EXCEEDS $10 0
AVERAGE PROPERTY VALUE: $4.123 (ESTIMAlTE)
NUMBER OF PROPERTIES: AROUND 11.000 (ESTIMATE)
PROPOSED 1985 RATE IMPOST: 7.33 PESEWAS IN CEOI
1985 BILLING: 3.Z98.000 CEDIS
*AVERAEE I985 BILL TO OWNER: $800 RARELY EXCEEDING e2,606
AREAS AFFECTED
Contonments          Police Headquarters  Asylum Down
Kanda Estate        North Labone          Dzorwulu
Tesano              Roman Ridge           Teshie Nungue EstatC3
Airport Residential Burma Carp            North Kaneshie Estates
Ringway Estate      Kuku Hill Osu         Awudome Estates
East West Ridge     Laterbiokorshie Zoti
SECONO CLASS RESIDENTIAL AREAS
1984 TOTAL RATEABLE VALUE: 506 MILLION CEDIS (88% TOTAL)
RATE IMPOST: 2.285 PESEUAS IN CEDI
BILLING: 11.42S,000 CEDIS
AVERAGE 1984 BILL TO OWNER: $50 VAST MAJORITY PROPERTIES
$150 FEW RECENTLY VALUED ONES
AVERAGE PROPERTY VALUE: 42,188 (ESTIMATE)
NUMBER OF PROPERTIES: 228,500 SESTIMATE)
PROPOSED 1985 RATE IMPOST: 4.57 PESEWfAS IN CEDI
1985 BILLING: 22,850,000 CEDIS
AVERAGE 1985 BILL TO OWNER: *IO (e308 FEW RECENT ONES)
AREAS AFFECTED
North Kaneshie      Jamestown                 Abbossey Okai
Kokolemile          Swalaba                   Teshie New Town
Lartebiokorshie     Maiprobi                  Darkunan
Link Road        Ussher Town               Alejo
Christiansborg      South Labadi Estates      New Abossey Okai
Accra New Town      Korla 5onno               Labadi
Kotobabi            Odorkor                   Mataheko
Abeka               Bubuashie                 Akukufoto
Maarobi
.mm                     .. , _ m_.__._.__  ...................... _.,_ ......... , _ m_ mmm



ANNE 5
-63 -                       Page 3 of 8
TABLE LA (Cont 'd): ACCRA CITY COUNCIL
PROPERTY RATE IMPOSTS: 1984 ACTUAL AND 1985 PROPOSED
THIRD CLASS RESIDENTIAL AREAS
1984 TOTAL RATEABLE VALUE: 26 MILLION CEDIS (3.5  TOTAL)
RATE IMPOST: 2.25 PESEIAS IN CEDI
BILLING: 450,080 C0rDIS
AVERAGE 1984 BILL TO OWNER: *25 (ESTIMATE)
AVERAGE PROPERTY VALUE: #1.104 (ESTIMATE;
NUMBER OF PROPERTIES: 18,000 (ESTIMATE)
PROPOSED 1985 RATE IMPOST: 4.50 PESEWAS IN CEDI
1985 BILLIN6: 900.000 CEDIS
AVERAGE 1985 BILL TO OVNER: $56
AREAS AFFECTED
Teshie Old Town     Alogboashie Village  Areas incorporated in
Nungua Old Town     Akweteman            City of Accra not spe-
Avenor Village      Labadi               cifically mentionea.
Sukula              Aborri
Ni"a                Abofu
FIRMS AND CORPORATIONS
1984 TOTAL RATEABLE VALUE: 90 MILLION CEDIS (451 TOTAL RATES)
RATE IMPOST: 12.6 PESEWAS IN CEDI
BILLING: 11.340.000 CEDIS
AVERAGE 1984 BILL TO OWNER: AROUND $46.606 (ESTIKATE)
ABOUT A DOZEN FROM *98 ,m--1i0.606
ABOUT SIX FROI *1090,NO506.066
HI6HEST BILL *756.6e6
AVERAGE PROPERTY VALUE: $326,060 (ESTIMATE)
NUMBER OF PROPERTIES: AROUND :80 (ESTIMATE)
PROPOSED 1985 RATE IMPOST: 2S.6 PESEWAS IN CEDI
1985 BILLING: 22.566.060 CEDIS
AVERAGE 1985 BILL TO OWNER: 480.888
(MAINTENANCE OF CURRENT RATE ALLOWED FOR PROPERTIES
WHICH HAVE COME ONTO ROLLS SINCE 1970)
INDUSTRIES
1984 TOTAL RATEABLE VALUE: 8.2 MILLION CEDIS (4% TOTAL RATES)
RATE IMPOST: 11.55 PESEWAS IN C0DI
BILLING: 947.000 CEDIS
AVERAGE 1984 BILL TO OWNER: AROUND $9,400 (ESTIMATE)
HIGHEST BILL *48 .060
AVERAGE PROPERTY VALUE: g8t .D0 (ESTIMATE)
NUMBER OF PROPERTIES: AROUND 112 (ESTIMATE)
~~~~-----------------------
PROPOSED 1995 RATE IMPOST: 25.6 PESEWAS IN CEDI
SAME AS FOR FIRMS & CORPORATIONS
1985 BILLING: 2.050.000 CEDIS
AVERA6E 1S89 BILL TO OWNER: 426,06.
*----..s.--.m.-.s__S _.........s                       s
UAPUR
October 1984



- 64 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 8
TABLE 2
SANM: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PPOJECT
ACCRA CITY COUNCIL: NOMINAL VALUE OF GENERAL RAiES EXCLUDING ARREARS
1980-1983 ACTUAL - '000 OF CURRENT CEDIS
19B4       1985        186        1987        1988       1989
RATEABLE BASE
VALUE (CEDI MILLIONS)                        663        730         B02        882       17641      19405
1 INCPEASE OVER PREVIOUS YEAR                7.8        l           lO         10        1900         10
Hf INDEX OF VALUE (1984=100)                    104)       110         121        133        2660       2926
AVERAGE RATE IMPOST
VALUE (RATE IN CED1)                    0.0f382    0.07447    0.13622    0.19460    0.01459    0.01990
X INCREASE OVER PREVIOUS YEAR               19.6         91          93         43         -93         15
f  INDEX OF YALUE Q1984=100)                   100        191         350        500          38         43
AMDLONT BILLED
BILLINGS (C0DI THOUSANDS)                25,811      54.330    109,311    i71,645    257,468    386,202
1 INCREASE OYER PREYIOUS YEAR                29         110         10          57          50         50
INDEX OF VALUE !1984=!003                   too         210        424         665        99E        149
AMOUNT COLLECTED
*4 PERCENT OF BiL!S COLLECTED                    69         60          65         65          70         70
COLLECTIONS (CEDI THOUSANDS)              15,4d7     32,59e     71.052    111,570    180,228    270,342
7 INCREASE OVEIR PREYIOUS YErP-               30        i1O         118         57          62         50
INDEX OF VALUE U84=:100                      100        210        459         720        1164       1746
PLN'CHASING PURER OF AMOUNTS COLLECTED IN 1984
ANNAL INFLATION RATE                             0.35       0.30        0.15       0.15        0.15       0.10
ACCRA PRICE INDEI (i984=1001                      IO1        135         17b        202         232        267
CONVERSION FACTOR TO 1984 CEDIS               1.00000    0.74074    0.56980    0.^;548    0.43085    0.37465
VALUE OF COLLECTIONS IN 1984 CEDIS             15.487     24,147      40,496     55,2E0      77,651    101,284
ACCRA PRICE iNDEX (1977=100)                     2981       375         4457       5125        5894       6483
CONtVESION FACTOR TO 1977 CEDIE               0.03355    0.02580    0.02244     0.01951    0.01697    0.01542
VALUE OF COLLECT1ONS IN 1977 CEPiS                52'        841       1,594      2,177       3,056      4,170
DOUBLE STARS (++) INDICATE VARIABLES TREATED AS EXOGENOUS iGIYEN).
RATE ItPOSTS ASSUMPTIONS:                                            RATEABLE BASE ASSUMPT!ONS:
-) Rate imposts for each property class doubie -From '4 to '85.   -Ž One-quarter of properties eissing
-) Average iepost in 1987 iive tises that of 1'84.                      from rolls are incorporated over
-R Rate isposts adjusted in l999 so billings are 50X over 197.          1995-87 period.
They will be adjusted downward because of the huge jump in       -> A new valuation roDl with a total
the rateable base, but the adjustment would stiil leave              rateabie base 20 'twenty) tines
billings 50! higher than in the previous year.                       greater in value than the 1984 one
-i Rate imposts ad;usted in 1989 so billings are 50! over I988.         goes into effect in 1988.
VAPUR
October 1984



-ml in plo    w Pow a               .XJs  n mm on wi &AoI umeum `SLJO1  pMI At #MP1l   St~ -            u a    ,llff P    OM9 nuql a9 23q4pt a  aM*% Wnapp  MAi, p
ml3       ajm     ~        an .g        PW  J3 'I      1'2   GI~     tMu         ao   a93        a U     In        inpp   atin    am pq                               nup~
iaiz  mc    u~~~~   ml*i W           mat      Wa       Cl    aft         itti   WUi          ls   a's       mlt    WU        Sit   il                    lti
taft!    161U   IWri   Lto"    nV'i    Kul19  balls    ow4c  aZul       IIlu   mlii    ullW   men           MM1  IWV         UVif  i,a  sow I REIR 'Tauimi
*  *  *  a  e     0       *         *      *         .       me        *      me~       ~~~ ~~~          ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ac    Ie  . 
I                I         I                                 0    0  C                 I         S                        I  B  *LI *       u111i11unm
IMgi      Wu IWIL  u VI     zW w ?Vl        KLY      .V   io%    iL1iI          man    ml%       LLW   oE          mmu   UVLI    uV: i 1W.:  mum  U              ow
*  5  6  0  6      5                B         S       *         *      o         *       o         mc~ ~~~~        ~~~~~~ m1et  ino  mwnEMU
NM=d am
gVj  ar    Ua.         Wi       'lb    ILW      U         L 12 aYK          it   aSw                          AKitl tV  610    LL   SR                  noUS     lUint
Ii   o                I       N9                                a i 9      9      It         1      SI        L a               iI    II          3imu LhIEuro
SE          LU        it      LI               603        N      rat       All    Ut        a       911      191     UZ        Ut    SE            1m  luJ1
mz   *      ~~ml       I      I         S       i         £      I         I       I         L      et        IA      II        L      9             M    A= NU
01   0       N~~8      I      et        if      It       IC      Li         It     a        a       S         Ii      a         ii     atNN51E                  
K    59      Li~     ~ SI     ti        I       At        Cl     at        L            0           S         5O   0            9*    K*u nu
5        96      a         It      it              Al         III    Ut         It     LI        I      I         Z         
u,sn      MID   .Wia       mc    tI as'              m          cL&ll 1   lull  mcf    us':      net   u,e        pm1   pml         MI   ills  S m I 111a1in
19*i     *K      mc        *       %        t  mc *  m               *WI        z      a.l       *      la         CM     *         .      at*
Ut  U  UI  S  It   19     ill       S      WI        S       U        *       IL~~~~~~~~~~S  U  at        a9     act          muII11
ma iLIIM
in9       UV      S        U       w         'WI   'Wi        'WI   owl          a     pm        LAS               mc     ml        of,    I                uai    MNIII
WLti    ,Ez    WINI         ULI  LSu        16    stilt       lull   artI      L       nos       i      Lus           m             SD    OK    lw  mr   'UIma
WI               Is        811    OK        I       I         SE     S          Wi     at1        aI    a          Ia     U         SI      a        shiIN sNTli
II                         it1 s   I              9 at    el  do                       I         I                        1  a  I                       inIliitinli
*        0                 &       I        I       I                           5      91         I      sI        el    La         11      a                nu 9JIU
ml   i      ml a      IL      it        U      K         LI      i         I      L         I       a         I      I         1       I             i1n1fa
1  5  £  S  I     S       61        1      1         I       1         1    -i~~~~~~~~~~~9  I9  L    I   r                   MMtalm  IN
U  AL  U  S  U    IL      It        £11    S         SI      £         LI    ~     ~ ~ ~~           ~ ~ ~~~~I  I  1  1  9  *Ilflt        lm
91li      mi      btO      AP      sK                         toL  I  6ll       SI      i        NO    IN           C      it       ti      1u           soin  ma
I        L       LI        II      t   I    K       11        IL      I    I   U       9         U       SI        LI     SI        I1      I          Namm
aVE      ai~      IIt                u 10       I   15        aW                atL  I9  aW OW           WL               mc         .      us    mawn x£mn    m
66  w  OR  at    ml  IM11  St  ZK  Om    Dt    St         at    on          DE    at         am      "I                     iml
AISI    Salt  IWS          UK       Witz     ga'sI  IN%Z      MSU   EWU         mlV    6WIT      1119   Gulf              ase AV    OL   151   twrUThs 'U1aIin
IWE ISL  m ~ ULI IWL  1111    flI mWa AWE lAl   lVE       IVE cIVl    UI   I.'L             SIV:  m       ma  mu waM sU
mVs  it'  EI  IS  095   AWl   AW   e    5*9  OWl 599%     'Wi 6£            'WI   SI         ELI   oW
tIlL  6      tIll      S       II       S        I        91     15        ac    Mi          a      I          to     5         *                            7 iuw
Dio       I      611       IUSW              a3 61            Sel     a1        'W     a1        11*   Al          IE 'I            ULI 59                 Ii1
mcit    IA       mc.       6       OL ml        i   mc at        I 9    I in     i    61         451 II    *       mI      Nl           l UlaS
gala6  gala           SI    Wu1         oift    'I       A'sI    Wut    sw        at'f      wi5      eI       al   *RI          wl   6l
aLiS      In%    fall      £1     OR9        401%   fall      LWI   Wi'         all   0113    full   8Wm           5E%    sei  *mei   mvi                 -imi    1
6  I             A         IW  IA            Is     Ie        IW    Ie          pm     6S        SA       e        91      E         a       UE
owm c     m                I      am         at    inM        aWI   NC'         is    dil        It      U          a         a        t    m
in    J31   m  is                     m.um  mu   u ataIn                   in m    m .*i  a£82s2i -
8 J   xa                                                              -9 



-66 -                                                ANNEX 5
MINTOM 4                                          Page 6 of 8
S     s         USTL7 UOIULITATIU  MCT
OT lit OM: AL    W ESTIMA  S AduM SOB IYhIh
Is 'en w cLam  Nifl EMMiA                                         a-                      
m                                    ofnnCT u                    0                  -o                 C ama               la             - Oa
Mcam          a            e    ct            sit    p           Si9  3T    In   Il    sin                                 sit       it        at   C9    UT                a
macmu                                 us,         s    a            an                  S        47         m    m             i 16 61                                          3II am4
lop-M. PUt               2,6   * 2.46       I'm      I'm        4    14   "        784      Nw        1.u 1,1             1l.2      734        a       Q  1n  s           a
FM      ma 0IL                       6a                                              25       37        269    3IN         IV?      M          23        *        as        a         a"
36113111                             6          0       6          6       4         33        0        2in                 6                   I                  42       0         2
t OI tMT 11.          C      1      23                  7                   0          3       I          3       6          0       0           0T                 I       0 I
ins, WA4                                                            Ms nZ a    2   7 13@ 1        7 13 4"  NM       0                             M        2          "       2S    la
T.W.                     24.14    2,I2N     133        W         7        1,                  0         2,      2                    71         7        0         S       N          3
mum                     ..       .a         4,0    *,.         3,3    *,          *.       2.33      2,9    .,m         13,7      a        D N                 3.11      *         2.3323
Foy, a e                  ,4      3.£        32  C*3                      61       N.W       Il4      3.45                          3                    t        m6  3               44
_                            0       0          4       0           *       4         9      3          I         1                                                to 3    4  *2  *   S2
WI        .                6,                         4     6         0              6 0           4     a       I                 2                               I *  3  0       1
It.                    2.141  I3,          1,3       M          In3             N34        me        1,2        is        M       3 Z 3               17   2D    0       23        23
wriii,   au   am        &na   a,uS         S,m    ;m%         gm3    4.W         9.as   2112         N.99    IJ         2.23    I,31       NM3       101       3.27     463       3.3
sun,ma. MLuM                6Aja   la.         3,aD    em         2.733    U7         r.im    2,1u       4,3a    aja        ;,412   3.46        4343      311      N.M       401      i,
i~ s FM
innsM Pa.  -M              TR      is         3a       ao        3        4w         435 T    37        441                                                                a
cononi111uSI                9      12        23       Ii          S       3          I       3          2        0         43       4          1        N         2       6          2
_                                  at         to       In        132    136 *7                M          43 a*               2      39          *       W          26      3 
_ama                       a,14   a1          32 1     i 7a              37         u*       meI     I,J   a   7            36      0   t      2       2                  22
S_                         9       1          2        4          £       1          6       3          2       2I *                                   0          3 1                2
of  I U16 1230   s1111      tI       A          4       4          2       3           2      231               13n          7       9          3        I        1        40 
nu,                          2       N          3       3 r                 N          N       S I                6          2       0          5      2          2n        0 20 
au                 Fi E  IAN    1.24?     M                  in      Gm          M       W          m 7  2   a         a       as *                m         3.       m F        a
_eu        m                a      a'.         aZ     ISI        112      ml          ns                 a       is          2       S          u@      J         23       U          )2
ANK UI                       N       21         3       2           N a     2          2.      I                             * 2  2  2          N        2          5       N          2
M. am.U        t. a I                           *       *a         2        7          3       0          5       4          0       S          6        0          6 I                6
0U1     I                    3       2          3       6          4 *           I         I             2 I                 N       6           N      0           £       S          S
11111=   FM          a       to         aIv                 s        2         Is       2          3                          a              0   *                   0          I
S                           3 21    21         25       6         £2       0           4T Zs  I  I  0     6                          32                 f           S      33          0
Max.MMImfii                 49     396        "I        29        M        27         a  .    i I                M           0      1%2         1 is         2i           In          31
.695I          S           *3    34            I       *        12      2*         I2    1  22  23                          1 ZN  I0 76               35              IN            C 
mw      mau WI                en      at         em       a         M       ian         223     M7         374      M         III     172         ai                          a          31
T                  II     I                    2£       2             D 24  3         a        0         1                  II       3          &                   1       5 
Ow w le        u       s            IT 411     m      in          IT?     I      s   O1       a         2,3      M I           I    1                   a          43      M         ze
55333705                     6       I          I       6         2         6        i2n                 42      40         12       0         22       6          32       a         1
-u       gm.          M          gm           l     a,         istt  *17          49       a          M2       3'        M         7        In       a          S        N0 2
FM E-IIU           tT;f    N 11                 l        1.0     ,1Z       J.6     5.1        Nw         W          S=     5%          so      ba          5        I
M            r M11                  46        2n   S 3            NI        1          7       2          2       I          N                                      £
CLaI1                                6          4       3          2       4          2        9          6       6          2       6          N S                 N       6        I
5690                                 0              I         0    0                  3        3          2       2          2                  N        2I                 2£
SMnf tii           S        47                 21 44    3         27       23         M       is         a1       0          2                  : 2                 2       0          1
-            a                      14 1*              I*          4        1 *            2              *       *          z       *          £       *          0        6         0
Su  OF  WdIIIS               I       2         76      6?          4        I          I       0          1       3          3       I          0       T          S        5          3
rIUUf.STIII              M       300   D     36    la         132       I1         32      36         Si       I          17      11              *   2         11       2         13
_T         a  Nola5            U3     31           7      a           4       4          9       2           A       2          6       4          2 a                2       6          2
iIM       .439                        3ll        £72    im           57      42         a2       3          39      22   21            33     T            3         12       2    N     4
Sl=N6S                     1.3 3D       712   7,71   S6.=        7.33   42*         2346  4, 6 ,w       ,26    2.7n        3.74    2.3        3,92   1.11        1.7                 Z. 2,S2
ITISIIJ    _             s1a1       mi          0       6          0        *          0                          0          0       0          6 *        *       *
BUS E        SS          9.42   1.4%2        2,a2  36.3.7      3a,3   113,1 43    £,9   10jk          9,1401   9.72      I.3to 1s339         3.72   3,32        3,36#   32310      3.33
s au n  11131 _34                         0             0a         0        4          *      a V         0       6          0       6           *                  S       6          0
SIU., t    UT       iS,m ,     4.I3      1,2is  U,347       3i4.  11£,4        ING0   1032          6,30   9.7         1,36    7,9        32   3.52          32,3    3.336      3.1
IUtUILIWUm                   6       0        196      me3       £179       I        322      4a                                     0           I                 0        6          I
Jim                                  .        2U      t          17 * *22 0  0         0                                     *       *                  a    *    0         6 
_16TU,                   i le     0         296    1£4         179                122                          6 e                 6 *                0                  6    *     e
_lum         I_Ob I  TiNti  19.412  14.186     13.312  U6,5       14,75   13,9       11,111  I£03        9.36   9.75        61      7.9         %7    3572         1330   3,216       27
hEU.. Ut am                3,W   13 ABU2      22    22,6         23  193,4           254    24,4W      134,2   32.0         9.22    9,64          4    4.1e       1.2      4.3,l      6.23
lIk   t*b Is ti  r_t .4 i       oftoq    m     co. trM W7  wI        O   v  £   is& ti M"          o    pm i          St I  a
WM
-ktneES



- 67-                               AIXNEX5
Page  7 of  8
TABLE 5
HAAM: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
ACCRA CITY COUNCIL-EXPENDITURE BY DEPARTMENT
1976/77- 84
(ACTUALS IN '000 CURRENT CEDISI
1976/77  1977/79  1978/79  1979/80  1980/11  1981/82 19O2END          1993     1984
CURRENT
ADMINISTRATION
CHAIRMAN'S OFFICE                  14       17        20       15        17        0         0         3   19,965
CITY NHR'S DEPT.                  277      410       433      53B       BO8    1,319       423    1,242    4,762
LEGAL                            211       387      473       434       896    1,222       425    6,763       199
TREASURY                        1,606    2,453    3,079    3,416    6,514    7,031    3,243         233    9,!54
MISCELLANEOUS a/                  294    1,788    5,666    6,656    8,108    4,694           0       29       954
TRADITIONAL AUTHS.                 30       20        !5       30        30       20         0        0         0
PENS. & GRATUITIES                157      261       278      246       440      993         0        0         0
SUBTOTAL                       2,579    5,336    9,964   11,335   16,903   15,279    4,091    9,270   34,034
DEBT SERVICING                       759    1,726    2,304    2,566          0        59        0        67        0
OPERATIONS
CITY EDUCATION                  1,302    1,524    1,434    1,865    3,451    2,510           0    3,040   13,117
"ED. OFF.  EALTh               3,232       654   11,245   13,675   24,403   14,972   14,290   15,909   71,176
MECH. ENGINEER                 3,366   11,571          0    6,360   10,559    7,132          0    5,081    5,549
CITY ENHINEER                  1,367    2,980    3,391    6,99S   12,531   14,720            0    9,425   1!,539
SUBTOTAL                       9,267   16,729   16,070   29,796   50,944   39,334   14,280   32,454  101,380
TOTAL, CliRRENT                   12.604   23.791   29,338   42,697   67,747   54,613   18,371   40,724  135,414
CAPITAL
WORKS-RECURREhT
ROADS,DRA3NS,9ARKING           1,527    1,049    3.159    2,389    2,334    2.074            0      404    6,682
SCFD0LS.NARKETS,DLDGS          2,05$    1.792    1,616    1,073    1,399    1.592            0    2,570   11,948
--ECTRICITY,-RAN5PDRT            158       260      393       509        20       63         0        0
SUBTOTAL                       3.743    3,091    5,168    3,971    3,753    3,729            0    2,974   18,630
WORKS-EXTRAOPDI!NARY
PLANNING & DESIGN                 109      320      N.A.      117         0        0         0        0       330
ROADS CONSTRUCTION             1,650       590     N.A.        29       176    1,700         0    2,330    2,200
DISTRICT JORKS                   234    1,327      N.A.       167    1,241       199         0        0   11,240
OTHER CHARGES                       1       20     N.A.         0        25        0         0        0         0
SUBTOTAL                       1,994    2,257         0       313    1,442    1,090          0    2.i30   13,770
TOTAL, ALL WORKS                   5,737    5,34      5,168    4,284    5,195    5.627          0    5.304   32,400
TOTAL EXPENDiTURE                 18,341   29,139   33.506   46,991   72,942   60,240   18.371   46,020  167.9!4
ACCRA PRICE INDEX !!(77=100)          Is      :35       223      327       575       82      102'    2209       2981
a/  RENT ALLOWANCES TO COUNCIL STAFF, BANW. CHARGES AND COHNISSIONS,INSURANCE, LAND ACDUIlSTOGN, ENTERTAINMENT
AND OTHE°R  iNOR EXPENSES.
WAPIR
Otober 1984



A-6AEX  5
- 68-                                Pagp 8 of 8
TABLE 6
GHANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
ACCRA CITY COUNCIL-EIPENDITURE BY DEPARTMENT
1976177- 84
(ACTUALS 11 '000 CALENDAR 1977 CEDIS)
1976177  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1990/81  1981182 1i82END      1983     1964
CURRENT
ADMINISTRATION
CHAIRAN'S OFFICE                 1B       13        9        5        3        0        0        0      636
CITY M1R'S DEPT.                355      304      194      165      141      150       41       56      160
LEGAL                           271     287       212      133      154      139       42      306        7
TREASURY                      2,059    1,817    1,381    1,045    1,133      797      317       11      307
MISCELLANEWJS                   364    1,324    2,541    2,035    1,410      532        0        1       32
TRADITIONAL AUTHS.               38       15        7        9        5        2        0        0        6
PENS. & GRATUITIES              201      193      125       75       77      113        0        0        0
SUBTOTAL                      3,306    3,953    4,468    3,466    2,922    1,732      400      375    1,142
DEBT SERVICING                     972    1,279    1,033      785        0        7        0        3        0
OPERATIONS
CITY EDUCATION                1,669    1,129      643      570      600      285        0      138      440
RED. OFF. HEALTH              4,144      484    5,043    4,182    4,244    1,699    1,396      720    2,398
tECH. ENGINEER                4,315    8,571        0    1,945    1,836      809        0      230      186
CITY ENGINEER                 1,753    2,207    1,521    2,109    2,179    1,669        0      362      397
SUBTOTAL                     11,881   12,392    7,206    8,806    8,860   4,460    1,396    1,470    3,401
TOTAL, CURRENT                  16,159   17,623   12,708   13,057   11,712    6,192    1,796    1,844    4,543
CAPITAL
WORKS-RECURRENT
ROADS,DRAINS,PARKING          1,958     777    1,417       731      406      235        0       18      224
SCHOOLS,NARKETS,BLDGS         2,638    1,320     725      328       243      180        0      116      401
ELECTRICITY,TRMNSPORT          203       193      176      156       3         7       0         0        0
SUBTOTAL                     4,799    2,290    2,317    1,214       653     423        0       135      625
WORKS-EITRAORDINARY
PLANNING6 IDESIGN               140     237         0       36        0        0        0        0       11
ROADS COiSTRUCTION            2,115     437        0         9       31      193        0      106       74
DISTRICT WORKS                  300     983         0       51      216       22        0        0      377
OTHER CHAR6ES                     1       15       0        0         4        0        0        0        0
SUBTOTAL                      2,556    1,672        0       96     251       215        0      106      462
TOTAL, ALL WORKS                 7,355    3,961    2,317    1,310      903      638        0      240    1,O07
TOTAL EIPENDITURE               23,514   21,584   15,025   14,367   12,686    6,630    1,796    2,095    5,629
THIS TABLE IS FORMED BY ADJUSTING THE FIGURES IN THE PREVIOUS TABLE BY THE PRICE INDICES AT THE END OF
THE PREVIOUS TABLE.
WAPUR
October 1984



-69-                        ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 11
GHANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Benefits
1.        The main economic benefits of the road and drainage reha-
bilitation and maintenance component, which constitutes 74% of total
project costs are:
(a) vehicle operating cost savings due to:
(i)  improved running surface on the four sections to be
rehabilitated; total: 17.5 km;
ii)  shorter routings made possible bv the completion of
the Accra-Tema Motorway through to Winneba Road
(8 kim), affecting mainly goods traffic bypassing
Accra on its way to and from the port at Tema:
route shortened by 7.5 km; and
(iii) improved running surface on the paved and gravel
urban network resulting from periodic and routine
maintenance; total: 918 km;
(b) avoidance of future reconstruction costs and lower
maintenance costs on the paved network to receive period-
ic maintenance, estimated to have an average remaining
functional life of five years or less (varying from 3 to
9 years).
Other benefits include foreign exchange savings associated with the
above vehicle operating cost savings (imported crude and spare parts),
and time savings associated with the shorter routings. These are
implicitly taken into account in calculating vehicle operating costs
savings; as parallel measures they are also estimated separately (see
para 7 below).
2.        Unit vehicle operating costs with and without the project were
calculated using data from the Road Vehicle Operating Cost Manual
prepared for GEA under the Third Highway Project, as updated in 1981 and
adjusted for 1981-84 inflation and shortage conditions. Petroleum
projects were costed at an economic value twice the official ex-refinery
price (Tema Refinery) to reflect the high foreign exchange content
(imported crude), and the persistent shortfall in supply and tires were
also valued at a premium to reflect actual market sale prices. Vehicle
capital costs (replacement) were not adjusted because there is no
observed divergence between import and market sale prices.



- 70 -                      ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 11
Representative economic vehicle operating costs on good running surfaces
of rehabilitated sections with the project were estimated to range from
US$0.183 per vkm for an average passenger vehicle to US$0.687 per vkm
for heavy goods vehicles and to be 40 to 66% higher on poor surfaces
(without the project). Tables 1 and 2 give details (see end of annex
for tables).
Rehabilitation and New Construction
3.        Vehicle operating cost savings for the sections to be recon-
structed were based on traffic counts made during 1984 at 33 locations
on the primary road network. The benefit calculation assumed 25X higher
traffic levels than those observed during traffic counts made in May
1984 to adjust conservatively for the effects of particularly severe
fuel shortages at the time, I/ and zero traffic growth over the 10- to
15-year road surface lifetime period used for analysis, which is consis-
tent with the low-case zero-growth GDP scenario outlined in a recent
World Bank adjustment program report. 2/   Estimates for traffic to be
diverted to the new Motorway section were based on results from an
origin-destination survey carried out at the Motorway toll gate inter-
preted in the light of previous GRA surveys. It was assumed that 25% of
traffic now using the existing Motorway (up to the new section's east
end) and the Winneba Road (up to its west end) will divert to the new
section, rather than making the loop through town via Nsawam Road - Ring
Road West - Winneba Road. No increment for generated traffic was
included.
Periodic and Routine Maintenance
4.        Due to lack of reliable traffic counts on the secondary paved
road network to receive periodic maintenance, vehicle operating cost
savings from maintenance (both periodic and routine) cannot be
calculated in the same way. so the measure of benefits used is the
savings due to introduction of periodic maintenance as compared to the
without project case requiring pavement reconstruction after five years
and higher initial routine maintenance costs. The analysis is done for
a 6-year period once the periodic maintenance program has attained the
level of 90 km a year for a seven-year rolling program (by year six of
the project), with routine maintenance program built up to about 550 km
annually by year six so that the 918 km network could be serviced on
1/        Precise information on weekly fuel deliveries for the Greater
Accra Region are lacking, but these were known to fluctuate
from 1.5 million gallons a week to 0.4 million during 1983.
By local observation of petrol queues, the May survey period
was a particularly depressed one; the refinery was not
producing.
2/        Report No. 4702-GH.



-71-                        ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 11
about a two-year rolling program. Annual savings on paved collectors
are about US$3,000 per km. The corresponding figure for gravel local
streets is US$800 per km.
Economic Analysis
5.        The cost streams for rehabilitation and construction include
the cost of civil works and one-quarter of technical assistance costs
plus an allowance for maintenance. For routine and periodic mainte-
nance, costs include equipment, vehicles, plant and spare parts, oper-
ating supplies and materials, and three-quarters of technical
assistance. All costs are net of taxes and duties, and inclusive of
physical contingencies at mid-1984 costs. The cost of Accra District
Road Unit salaries was not included as they would be incurred with or
without the project.
6.        Consolidating the net benefit streams for the five road
sections to be constructed and rehabilitated yields ERR of 83% for the
road construction and rehabilitation subcomponent. Consolidating the
net benefit streams for the maintenance program yields an ERR of 39% for
the maintenance subcomponent. Since the streams for the two road
subcomponents are not comparable and cannot be consolidated, a weighted
average of the two subcomponent ERRs is used as a measure of total
component ERR; that is, 71Z. If the economic costs of all other project
components (property revaluation, revenue mobilization, and East
Naasobi) are incorporated in the consolidated net benefit stream for the
five road sections but no additional benefits are added for these other
components, the result is a combined ERR for the project of 62Z. The
weighted average of this ERR and the ERR for road maintenance is 57X.
This means that the road user savings from road reconstruction and the
investment savings from the maintenance program are large enough to
carry the costs of all project components, even without taking into
consideration the other benefits likely to be generated, such as those
from East Maamobi upgrading (paras 8-15 below). None of the ERRs
calculated for individual road sections or subcomponents falls below
30Z. The results for individual sections are summarized below.
Detailed cost and benefit streams are available in the project file
(Lavalin International final report, August 1984).



GHANA:  ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILTATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - ROAD COM5PONENT SUMMARY
Economic   Traffic      Surface       Surface
Cost      Level        Speed      Condition   Vehicle Operating Cost           Sensi-
Km (US$ mil.) ('000 veh/day) (rm/h)           (I/          (US$'OOO/yr.)        ERR  tiv$ty e/
Rehabilitation                             w/out  with  w/out  with  w/out  with   w/out   with  savings
1. Ring Road central,
Redemption Circle to
Nkrumeh Circle               3.0    1.98   32.1  32.1   56       64      C      A      8.3    6.6   1.7      652    42%
2. Ring Road West, Nkrumah
Circle to Lamptey Circle    2.2    1.11   37.9  34.2   40        64      C      A      7.3    5.3   2.0    1172    782
3. N9awam Road, Nkrumah Circle
to Achimoto Village a/       6.3    1.54   17.7  14.0   32       48     C       A      9.8    7.1   2,7    125X    84%
4. Accra-Tema Motorway, Tetteb
Quarshie Circle to Nsawam
Road                         6.0    1.75    8.1   8.1   64       72     D       A      4.8    3.8   1.0       792    452
Subtotal Rehabilitation 17.5    6.38   92.1  P8.4  32-64  48-72  C-D         A     30.2   22.8   7.4    1042    682
Construction
Complete Motorway extension,
Diamond Interchange to
Winneba Road a/              8.0    2.86   N/A    3.7  N/A       72    N/A      A      4.6    2.4   2.2 f/  582    37%
Total, Rehab. and Constr.      24.8    9.24   92.1 c/                                     34.8   25.2   9.6      832    54%
Maintenance b/                918.0    4.9                                                              3.8      392
Total Component          24.8+918.0   14.14                                                            13.4      71X
a/ Cost of new construction at Diamond Tnterchange allocated between these two (50/50).
b/ Includes both periodic (on a six-year cycle of 90 km/yr) and routine (on a two-year evcle at 550 km/yr);
ERR excludes benefits from vehicle operating cost savinpa (see pAra 4).                                                    oQZ
c/ Total network traffic does not change.  The 3,700 veh/day on the Rirg Road West-Nsawam Road section
shifts to Motorway.                                                                                                        0
d/ See Table 2, last page of Annex.
e/ Costs increased by 25X, benefits reduced by 25%.
t VOC savings to diverted traffic; this traffic not included on roads from which it will be diverteie
ro douible  oi,r i,).  Also excludes sav I'      i u I i  1inneba Road im) i   !4   s which are not )a,-: io:    s  iro ect.



-73 -                      AJNEX6
Page 5 of 11
7.        The foreign exchange savings associated with the vehicle
operating cost savings on the rehabilitated sections are estimated at
U5$9.6 million a year.  Savings from the maintenance program are
estimated at US$1.3 million per annum. Distance and time savings from
shorter .Accra bypass routings allowed by the new Motorway sectior are
expected to be substantial as truck travel time from Tema port to
Winneba and points west will be cut by 20 minutes (7.5 kn).
B. Upgrading of East Maamobi
8.        The upgrading of the East Maamobi site, which amounts to about
12X of project cost, will dramatically improve sanitation and accessi-
bility of this area. More importantly, it will provide practical expe-
rience to the Technical Services Unit team in carrying out this kis.Ld of
approach, to which C-overnment has long been committed but has lacked a
workable approach. The 30 ha pilot upgrading area in East Maamobi was
chosen as the most densely settled of a larger, 1,980 ha area (Nima-
Maamobi) which is the largest unserviced area of the city. The larger
area houses about 10% of Accra's population, or about 100,000 persons,
and the project area houses about 19,600 persons or 5.440 households
living in 637 compounds (8.5 households per compound).
9.        Considering that the area is presently totally inaccessible by
car and has few latrines, no public piped water or drainage, and these
services as well as garbage collection and electricity will be supplied
at such a low cost relative to income levels and with minimum disruption
(2% of rooms affected by new rights-of-way), the improvements can surely
be expected to have an impact on property resale values. Property sale
information in the area of the project and in neighboring areas with
better services indicates a five-fold difference in market sales value
for similar building types and lot sizes. Data was gathered on actual
transaction prices from the local traditional authorities who allocate
land in Maamobi from private valuers and from real estate dealers.
Areas covered include the immediate area of the project (East Maamobi),
neighboring West Maamobi and Nina where conditions are similar to the
project area, neighboring Accra New Town and nearby Alajo, where ser-
vices are better and Kaneshie, Labone, and the Airport Residential area,
where services are very much better.
10.       Looking at recent market sales (late 1984), a mudbrick struc-
ture of the compound type (8-16 rooms per structure) in the Maamobi
area, has been selling for about ¢ 50,000 per room, while the same type
of building in Accra New Town sells for about e 250,000 per room. This
type of building makes up about 60% of structures in Maamobi, but is
less common in New Town where few of the original residents were Moslem.
More than half of the buildings in Accra New Town and about 1OX of those
in Xaamobi are single-family cement block structures, and these have
been selling for about e 100,000 per room in Maamobi and about
9 500,000 per room in Accra New Town. There are no structures of
comparable quality in the better residential areas of town. Details on



-74 -                      ANEX 6
Page 6 of 11
area conditions and on the sales data gathered may be found in the
Project File.
11.       The occurence of this kind of one-time increase in property
values in East Maamobi within a year after the completion of upgrading
works would be associated with an economic rate of return of over 500x.
The calculation is based on an estimate of the value of housing stock in
the East Maamobi project area as follows: of a total of 637 structures
counted at the time of the June 1984 survey, 90% or 573 are com-
pound-type structures averaging ten rooms each (the survey found
8.5 households per structure, 3.6 persons per bousehold, and 3 persons
per room). The remaining 10%, or 64 structures, are single-family
houses with a slightly lower occupancy rate.
6,337 rooms, compound-type, e ¢ 50,000 per room - e 317 million
160 rooms, house-type, c ¢ 100,000 per room   - ¢  16 million
Current vatue housing stock, project area        - e 333 million
Rounding off to one significant digit            - e 300 million
12.       Looking now at the basic data on the cost side, infrastructure
and land compensation costs were calculated by excluding taxes and
duties and shadow-pricing foreign exchange at twice the official ex-
change rate.  3/   The exercise was done in cedis since the benefits
have value only in the local market.
3/        A shadow exchange rate of 2 is used here because the figure in
use by the Bank in 1983 has not been recalculated since the
devaluations in 1983 and 1984 which have brought the official
exchange rate from I 20 to the US dollar to 30. 35, and 38.5
(November 1984). Adjustment of the rate developed for 1983
(see Memorandum to files of Vilay Soulatha, EPDC&, of
September 10, 1984) of 2.36 (t 47/¢ 20) to correct for the
difference in inflation rates in the US and Ghana for 1984
implies a shadow rate of 1.58 (1.35t1.04 tfmes ¢ 47 - 61;
61/38.5 - 1.58). It is felt that a rate of 2 (one significant
digit rather than three) is more appropriate given the
approximate nature of the exercise at hand.



-75 -                       ANEX 6
Page 7 of 11
Foreign     Foreign
Local    _ ha     Exchsnge X 2      Total
mi.llions)
Roads                     2.772     9,702      19,404         22,176
Drainage                  2,050     7,174      14,348         16,398
Water                       675     3,376       6,752          7,427
Electricity                 440     3,520       7,040          7,480
Sanitation                  542     4,337       8,674          9,216
Refuse                      305     2,042       4,084          4,389
Design & Supvervision    1,732      1,155       2,310          4,042
Land                     25,002       -           -           25,002
Physical cont.            1,222     4,827       9,654         10,876
Total                                                     107.000
Half these costs are invested in the first year of the project and the
remaining works are completed by the end of the second year.
13.       Three possible outcomes were examined:
(a) Property values double in year two and again in year
three, so that values after improvement are four times
the preimprovement level, or roughly on a par with values
in Accra New Town.
(b) Property values double by a year after works completion,
half of the increase occurring in year two and half in
year three.
(c) Property values increase by 50% by a year after works
completion, half in year two, half in year three.
The associated cost and benefit streams and the economic rates of return
are shown below:
Costs     Benefits       Net Stream
---        (- millions)
Outcome (1)         Year 1            53         -               - 53
ERR: +541           Year 2            54        300               246
Year 3           -          600              600
Outcome (2)         Year 1            53         --              - 53
ERR: +182           Year 2            54        150                96
Year 3           -          150               150
Outcome (3)         Year 1            53         --              - 53
ERR: 40Z            Year 2            54         75                21
Year 3           -           75                75



-76-                        ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 11
The increase in property values in the project area would have to fall
below 40% for the ERR to fall below zero. Considering the large market
premium for New Town, where services are currently better than in East
Naamobi but probably not as good as the services in the project area
after the project, and the fact that the two areas are adjacent to each
other and the same distance from tovn, it is difficult to imagine that
property values in East Maamobi will not at least double. Even a
50% increase, which must be considered a modest increase in these
circumstances, would be associated with high economic returns.
14.       Given the limited data base, this ERR is meant to be taken as
indicative. The primary justification for this component is that it
demonstrates a low-cost, workable approach to upgrading other densely-
settled, underserviced areas in Accra.
15.       Because of the effective rent control and the artificially low
level of present enforced rents, most propert) owners are not expected
to invest in building improvements to existing structures, 60% of which
are 30-year-old mudbrick or earth structures. While rents may go up
because of improvements, they will still be very low and thev will
continue to be controlled by neighborhood political heads. Current
rents are about ¢ 100 per household, which amounts to about 3% of income
at the 50th percentile and 5% at the 25th percentile (see income and
poverty discussion below).
C. Poverty Impact
16.       About 90% of project cost is taken up by the road and resource
mobilization components which will benefit all residents of Accra
district (population 965,000), and the remaining 10% will benefit
specific area residents in East Maamobi (about 20,000 residents). The
1984 urban poverty threshold can be estimated using standard Bank
methodology by adjusting the 1983 GNP per capita estimate of US$322 or
e 5,808 per year to US$350 for 1984 by applying real GNP per capita
growth of 3.2Z and the increase in US inflation of 5%. The standard
approach to estimating relative poverty suggests taking 40% of average
per capita income for rural poverty threshold and adjusting the urban
estimate by the difference in the rural/urban CPI. In Ghana, the urban
CPI is actually about 20% lower than the rural CPI. Using this ap-
proach, the rural poverty threshold is US$140 and the urban,
US$112 (economic mission estimates). Converting this to cedis at the
adjusted 1984 shadow exchange rate of e 61/US$1 (see footnote above)
gives an annual urban poverty income threshold of e 6,832 per capita per
year or about e 2,050 per household per mouth.
17.       Comparing this threshold with 1984 survey data from East
Naamobi implies that about 25% of residents fall below the poverty
threshold.



-77- _AJN    6
Page 9 of 11
Yonthly Income and Expenditure in East Maamobi
(July 1984 survey)
Percentile          Per Household        Per Capita
25th                ¢ 2,000              e   555
50th                e 3,500              e   972
75th                ¢ 6,500              e 1,805
Note:  Household expenditure is taken as a proxy for income, as incomes
were underreported for fear of taxation.
18.       However, expenditure evidence from this survey and findings of
the Bank's recent economic mission indicate that two-thirds to 100Z of
East Maamobi residents and 50-90% of Accra's residents are consuming
nutritionally substandard diets despite use of savings and interfamily
transfers to supplement monetary earnings and allocation of 85% of
consumption to food purchases. It would cost about ¢ 800 per household
per day to purchase a diet satisfying minimal nutritional requirements
at Accra market prices, and about e 170 per household per day for a
subminizal "basic" diet of corn dough and bread for breakfast, yam and
fish stew for lunch, and leftovers for dinner. The latter works out to
about e 5,000 per household per month. In East Maamobi, about
two-thirds of households actually spend less than ¢ 5,000 per month on
food.
19.       Assuming for lack of better data that the city's income
distribution is similar to that of East Naamobi, with a median 50%
higher to reflect the difference between the minimum and average govern-
ment salaries, still half the households would fall into expenditure
groups spending less than e 5,000 a month on food, and at least 9% would
spend less than the e 24,000 per household per month required for the
nutritionally adequate diet. Even vith recent food price decreases due
to the first good rains in several years, it is clear that economic
hardship has been particularly widespread for a prolonged period of
time, and that given the unusual circumstances a large proportion of
residents must be considered poor.
20.       Thus, it has been estimated that at least half and as many
as 90% of Accra's residents can be considered to fall below the poverty
threshold, and from two-thirds to 100% of East Maamobi residents. Since
9OZ of the project is expected to benefit all residents equally and the
remaining 10% those in East Maamobi, 52% to 91% of project beneficiaries
are estimated to be poor.



-78 -                       ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 11
GHANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 1: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS:
ROAD AND DRAINAGE REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE COMPONENT
UNIT VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS UNDER VARYING SPEED LEVELS
(Bitumen Surface Urban Road)
(US ¢/km)
Speed Level        Car        L.C.V.      P.C.V.       M.G.V.      H.G.V.
32            21.8        22.5        53.6         50.4        83.7
40            19.9        20.8        49.4         47.0        77.5
48            19.3        20.1        45.2         43.6        71.7
56            18.3        19.3        44.1         41.9        68.7
60            17.9        19.9        44.1         41.9        68.7
64            17.5        18.3        44.1         41.9        68.7
72            17.3        18.1        44.1         41.9        68.7
Note: For purposes of simplification, all vehicle categories are
assumed to travel at a uniform speed for speed levels ranging from
32 kph to 48 kph. Beyond that, the impact of higher speed levels on
unit V.O.C. occurs only among passenger cars and light commercial
vehicles. For heavy vehicles, the longer deceleration/acceleration
cycle beyond the 48 kph level disallows any appreciable gain in average
speed.
L.C.V.:   Light Commercial Vehicles
P.C.V.:   Passenger Commercial Vehicles
M.G.V.:  Medium Goods Vehicles
H.G.V.:   Heavy Goods Vehicles



-79 -                       ANNEX 6
Page 11 of 11
GHANA: ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 2: ECONOMIC ANAlYSIS
ROAD AND DRAINAGE REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE COMPONENT
OPERATING COST INDICES: VARIATION OF UNIT VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS ON
DETERIORATING BITUMEN ROADS
(assuming standard vehicle speed relationship
and typical speed differential)
(Cost Indices: Base = New Surface Dressing)
Pavement Condition        Car      L.C.V.      P.C.V.    M.G.V.      H.G.V.
A. Good Asphalt           87          89         94          95         95
B. New Surface
Dressing            100        100         100         100        100
C. Slight Failure        110         109        106         105        105
D.  Moderate Failure    121          118        112         110        111
E.  Severe Failure       166        157         144         138        140
Source:
Ghana Highway Authority, "Fourth Highway Program: Pre-Construction
Studies - Vehicle Operating Costs". (Report prepared by consultants
Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick and Partners, 1981).
Note: These cost indices were based on normal traffic conditions on a
typical paved road within the national road network. Although average
daily traffic on urban roads is considerably higher (and typical average
speed somewhat lower) than that used for purposes of calculation in the
above-cited report, these indices are nevertheless considered as valid
approximations of the impact of surface roughness on vehicle operating
costs on urban arterials.



AMAURITANIA 
-                        l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.
MALI          N NIG E R
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TTE ;                                                   UAMEERSH2 ILOETECt
4612.~~~~~~~
5A
-~OJO T      NRD- :                            A
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~R                             ti
/1~~~~~~~~~~~CRE                                             L -0B
~~~~~O ~   ~        #
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~~~0                                               12KLmTi
NIOMTRS   EMPIN
'~~~~~~~    -~~~~~~~~~--.: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     AIE
RD                                   MLE



IBRD 1855
,,                                                                                                                              br. .'w     ft. h _n  e.u,.p b y
.: .  .-   \                                                                                     vl rW Dw F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  rdO _dr.. vl' i
-A|  010 Nr .hot
VWa.. ma VWoB
N                                                                                                              C-VamBo 1     V dW
N                                                                               .aad00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C-*W  Tr. daWN.a M,a
EN0 aW ,d a-k*. -, NW
Vaf al ma BOOo V 0 W N
S' AVj. 90 0 NW lAnd aMr
-amr-v m QWya' Oy
pTION~ ~ ~ ~~~~ -t  J                                                                                                               050'
..-  
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
0~~~~~~
:EC 
ROADS:                                         jPROJECT UPGRADING AREA
X3  l                                                            Arteriols                                0     MAINTENANCE YARDS AND DEPoTs
Major Coflectors                               POPULATION DENSITY:
Cirocles                                              Low (50 Persons/ho)
--   New Construction                                  Medium 150 - 350)
Rehabilitated Undef the Project          j       High (350 and Up)
72                   KIl!OMETERS                     PAVEMENT DISTRESS:                         3        ndustriol and Commercial
Throughout                             -- CITY BOUNDARY
]           ~~~~2 MILES                           Extensive                             - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Moderate
DECEMBER 1984



-               -=Il
X/'
P --S-- --                                              *A /1
*~ ~~~~~ /97<,  e:
--X-- - ----
t~~~~~~'-' ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     - '.- -. 
X~~~~~~~~ 4_                             P
xW   \\\                     _|gq_jse-Qeuh~@W~m



IBRD 18557
MAURITANIA
M A LI       NI GE R
ACCRA  GIRL                                                     -4NIGERIA
s' -                o_ SECONDARY SCHOOL              j               \                                     ,-c.f
A              _I__ O'_.
//<~~~- - -.-\
i..'         I             v               
145-                              -.--  --
R                 if
T
,{ ~    5 ,  .           .5                                             -
*.,                 I   S ,/
-. - pi ! ., , _tt ,.~~~~~~~~ G H A N A
-+ \s., t v  , /                                       ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
-;: .  -    /  /    /              -, iEAST MAAMOBI UPGRADING AREA
'' -'" ... 3 w/         /                 g        >o
-      * , '  x    !  ,    ws  t  j.;                     PAVED ROADS
5.5.%    ,        A        7/5                    ,PAVED FOOTPATHS
WATER 5UIPLY-
odZ /- Z                                                                  200 mm DIAMETER MAIN PIPES
---- '- -                                                                          -    100 mm DIAMETER DISTRIBUTOR PIPES
.....  ''75 mm DIAMETER DISTRIBUTOR PIPES
A .      D                                                                  *   PUBLIC LATRINES
ELECTRICITY NETWORK
_'2'L-a       -             7                                                    ____   LOW TENSION OVERHEAD LINES
A    REFUSE CONTAINERS
HIGHWAYS
RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
0 ,85   _/  o  50  100  150 METERS              -45-  CONTOURS IN METERS
~~~~~~- 0  ~  ~        D       5        D       10MTR
0   100  200  300  400  500 FEET                -  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Th_ -nIro-fucS.-e lao~ s wel..mynory o.d mor br
!ar.Ct !O nnlor n-od,f.cot.ons du-ng fmol dm-Sq
DECEMBER 1984






