Document of
The Worid Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Rqkt No. P-3896--(
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 22.5 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
February 27, 1985
This docu_et ba a rtited distribubid  _d nmay be mad by recipieats only in tue perforance of
their od     duti. its contts am  not odhewise be disosed without World Bnk uboriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -          Cedi (9)
US$1.00             =          9 50.00
e 1.00              -          US$0.02
SDR 1.00            -         USSO.989983
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
XEASURES
1 kilometer (1cm)        =         0.62  mile
1 meter (m)                        3.28  feet
1 millimeter (mm)                  0.039 inch
I square kilometer (km2)           0.39  scuare mile
i hectare (ha)           =         2.47  acres
1 square meter (=2)      =         10.76  square feet
I metric ton (t)         =         2.205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)          =          2.205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIAIIONS AND ACRONYXIS
ACC            Accra Citv Council
ADRU      =    Acc-a District Roads Unit
CIDA      =    Canaiian International Development Agency
GRA       =    Ghana Highway Authority
GIMPA          Ghana Iitstitute of Management and Public
Administration
GTZ       =    Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusa-enarbeit
(FRG)
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (FRG)
LGTS           Local Goverrment Training School
LVB            Lands Valuation Board
NLG       =    Ministry of Local Government
MRH       =    Ministrv of Roads and Highways
MD4WH          Ministry of o7orks and Housing
ODA            Overseas Development Admir.ist-ration
ROW            Right of Way
SCC            Staffordshire County Council
TSC            Technical Services Center
VIP            Ventilated Improved Pit
WFP            World Food Program



FOR OFFCAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECr SUKMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Ghaua.
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Works and Housing (MWH). Ministry of
Local Government (1LG), Accra City Council (ACC),
Accra District Roads Unit (ADRU).
Amount:             SDR 22.5 million (US$22.0 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard.
Project
Description:        The proposed project will remove transport
bottlenecks in Accra, strengthen technically and
financially the institutions responsible for
infrastructure maintenance and urban services in
Accra, and demonstrate cost-effective improvements
to basic infrastructure in a small area of central
Accra. To achieve these ends, the project vill
finance: (a) toe completion or rehabilitation of
three major roads; (b) technical assistance, train-
ing, vehicles, equipment and materials for a
six-year program of road maintenance in Accra
District by ADRU; (c) technical assistance, vehi-
cles, equipment and training to improve MLG's
property valuation and local government staff
training capability, ACC's revenue mobilization,
financial management and service delivery capabil-
ity, and MWH project management capability; and
(d) the construction of basic roads, drainage, water
supply, street lighting, sanitation and garbage
disposal facilities in a centrally-located 30 ha
area housing approximately 19,000 people.
Project Benefits
and Risks:          The project will contribute to the economic recoverv
of the country by removing infrastructure con-
straints hindering the movement of imports and
exports in the Accra area, a major bottleneck in the
national road network. The development of a sound
road maintenance program will avoid substantial
future capital expenditures for road reconstruction.
Revenue mobilization at the municipal level in Accra
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients on;y in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



and improved management procedures vill enhance
ACC's ability to maintain infrastructure and provide
urban services, thus reducing the burden on scarce
central government resources. City residents wll.
benefit from improved traffic flows and environ-
mental  provements resulting from the regular
maintenance of the road and drainage network. The
improvement of basic infrastructure in the East
1aamobi area will improve living conditions for its
19.000 residents while demonstrating a cost-effec-
tive alternative to the Government's high cost
programs of the recent past. The risks involved in
the project are: (a) that ACC will not be able to
sustain sufficient political backing to approve and
collect the najor increases in rates required to
continue funding improved road maintenance and
refuse disposal; and (b) that project implementation
viii suffer due to the difficulty of attracting and
keeping qualified Ghanaian staff. The latter is a
risk affecting virtually all undertakings in Ghana
due to chronic national 'brain drain". As for the
ACC rate increases, major increases for 1985 agreed
a: appraisal have already become effective and an
annua-l review process was agreed at negotiations to
assure continuing sufficient increases. The reha-
bilitation of roads with assistance from this
project and the improvements in refuse collection
through bilateral aid from GTZ/KfW (Federal Republic
of Germany) wwill provide ACC with important
political capital vith which to convince ratepayers
that ACC can deliver higher levels of service. A
sustained public enlightenment campaign, which is
also receiving support through the project, has been
designed to convey this message to city residents.



- iii -
Sumnary Project Cost Estimate
Estimated Costs:                             Local    Foreign    Total
-US$ millions) -
1.  Infrastructure Rehabilitation
- Road and Drainage Rehabilitation
and Maintenance                         3.6       11.9      15.5
- Basic Infrastructure in East Naamobi   1.0         1.6       2.6
2. Resource Mobilization
- Property Revaluation                    0.4        1.4       1.8
- Hunicipal Revenue Mobilization          0.1        1.1       1.2
Total Base Cost                         5.1       16.0      21.1 a/
Physical contingencies                    0.5        1.3       1.8
Price contingencies                       0.7        2.7       3.4
Total Project Cost                      6.3 bI   20.0       26.3
Financing Plan:
Percentage of
Total Project
Local    Foreign     Total           Cost
-~ (US$ millions)
IDA                      2.4       19.6       22.0            84
wFP                       0.1       0.2         0.3            1
CIDA, ODA                 0.1       0.2         0.3            1
Government                3.7 b/      -         3.7           14
Total                6.3       20.0       26.3           100
Estimated Disbursements (USS Thousands):
FY86        FY87     FY88    FY89    FY90   FY91   FY91
_  --    -  <(uS$ millons)         -
Annual          3.3 a/c/d/  5.7 d/    6.6       4.0     1.8    0.4    0.2
Cumulative      3.3          g 9.0    15.6    19.6    21.4   21.8   22.0
a/  Includes refinancing of Project Preparation Facility advances of
US$1.0 million approved under the project.
b/  Includes USS1.3 million in taxes.
c/  Includes a deposit in a revolving fund of US$700,000.
dI  Includes US$2.0 million front-loaded IDA financing for local
expenditures incurred in FY86 through the second quarter
of FY87.



-iv-
Economic Rats of Return:  71 percent for the road rebabilitation and
simntenance elements representing 74 percent of
project cost.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5327-GH dated February 27. 1985
AM=  I    18556:          Accra District Rehabilitation Project.
IBRD 18557:        East Naamobi Upgrading Area.



INTEXNAIIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTEREATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIAIMON
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR THE
ACCRA DISTRICT REHLABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and racoumendation on a proposed
Accra District Rehabilitation Project to the Republic of Ghana in an
amount equivalent to SDR 22.5 million on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Ghana: Managing the Transition"
was distributed to the Executive Directors in November 1984 (5289-GH).
A smary of the economic situation is presented in this section.  Basic
economic data and selected social indicators are summarized in Annex I.
3.        Ghana once enjoyed a fairly high standard of living compared
with most other West African nations. However, a declining gross nation-
al income has combined with high population growth (estimated at about
3 percent a year) to cause a substantial erosion in real per capita
income. The average real income in 1983 is estimated at US$320, which
represents a decline by about two-fifth from what it was a decade ago.
The rate of unemployment is quite high and underemployment is widespread.
Almost half the population of about 12 million is now estimated to live
in absolute poverty. The country's basic needs indicators, once the best
in Africa, are no longer much better than those of other Sub-S'ahara
Africa countries with comparable per capita incomes. Modern health
services are available to only about a third of the people and fewer in
rural areas; only 35 percent have access to safe water. Although the
education system is well established and elementary education has been
free since 1962, 50 percent of adult men and 70 percent of adult women
have had no formal education.
Basic Structural Characteristics
4.        Ghana is comparatively well endowed with natural and human
resources. The country has valuable mineral deposits, particularly gold,
but also diamonds, bauxite and manganese, and offshore oil. There is



-2-
further potential for hydro power generation. Ghana has a relatively
good supply of land suitable for growing cereals and starchy staples and
possesses considerable fishing and forestry resources.
5.        Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy, accounting
for over half of GDP. Only 11 percent of the land area is cultivated,
half of which is under cocoa. Nearly 70 percent of the population derive
an income from agriculture or related activities. The basic staple foods
are maize, rice, millet, yam, cassava, and plantain but, except for
cassava, yields of these crops have stagnated in recent years. Food
production in 1980 was only 88 percent of that in 1975.  Prolonged
droughts in 1975-77 and 1982-83, inadequate support services, poor
transport facilities, and lack of fertilizers and other inputs contribut-
ed to the decline. In recent years, Ghana has had to import 10 to 15
percent of its cereal consumption (mainly rice and maize).
6.        Ghana's economy is highly dependent on primary products for
exports. Cocoa (of which Ghana is the world's third largest producer)
still contributes about two-thirds of total export earnings, although
production has been declining. Timber is also an important expcrt item.
Mining is still Ghana's second largest foreign exchange earner, contrib-
uting 20 percent of the total, although production has been declining
over the past two decades. Efforts to diversify the export base have not
made much headway.
7.        Industrial production and services currently account for 7
percent and 39 percent of GDP, respectively. Manufacturing-including
textiles, steel, tires, oil refining and simple consumer goods-con-
tributed 3.4 percent of GDP in 1983 declining from 11.4 percent in 1970
and provided full- or part-time employment to just over one-tenth of the
labor force. However, manufacturing in Ghana remains heavily dependent
on imported inputs.
8.        Ghana used to import all of its petroleum, mostly in the form
of crude oil, which is refined domestically and used chiefly as a source
of fuel for the transport sector. Recently, some oil deposits have been
discovered and commercial exploitation has commenced. Production of
crude is now about 1,200 barrels per day, equivalent to 7 percent of the
country's requirements. Hydroelectric power meets most of Ghana's
non-transport commercial energy needs, although it has been drastically
affected by the drought in recent years (see para. 15).
Past Economic Developments - The Inheritance
9.        Throughout the 1970s, Ghana's economy was subject to gross
mismanagement. Large budgetarv deficits, necessitated partly by the need
to support a sprawling, inefficient public sector, led to a marked
acceleration in domestic inflation. Given the reluctance to move the
exchange rate, the fixed nominal rate became grossly overvalued, shifting
relative incentives away from exports into import trade, and more specif-
ically from cocoa, Ghana's main export, into subsistence food production.
The resulting deterioration in export performance, combined with a
growing disenchantment on the part of aid donors with Ghana's policy
performance, caused a perpetual foreign exchange crisis that pushed



-3-
successive Governments into ir,creasingly restrictive import regimes.
Thus, what was once an economy with ample imports became starved of the
main fuel for its growth. The erosion of the tax base due to declining
exports and imports, and the related decline in economic activity forced
severe cutbacks izm G-tvernment operations and maintenance and capital
expenditures. Thus, foreign exchange shortages and declining public
expenditures contributed to the marked deterioration in what was once a
fairly well developed economic and social infrastructure. This in turn
further reduced the country's productive capacity.
10.       A tendency to respond to shortages with controls and rationing
worsened the problem; extensive price controls and widespread resort to
administrative price setting eroded the incentives to produce and save,
diminished the capacity of public sector entities to maintain the level
and quality of services, and created a vast parallel black market with
its related evils of corruption, smuggling and tax evasion. Declining
real wages, political instability and reduced economic opportunities led
talented and skilled Ghanaians to leave the country, depriving the
country of scarce managerial, administrative and technical skills.
11.       To add to all its difficulties, Ghana was subjected in the
early years of the present decade to three additional problems. First, a
prolonged and severe drought that created the worst food shortages since
Independence. Second, a sharp deterioration in external terms of trade
following the increase in petroleum import prices, and a softening in
prices of Ghana's major exports (cocoa, gold and manganese). Third, the
sudden and unexpected return of over one million Ghanaians from Nigeria,
placing a severe strain on the food and unemployment situation. The
cumulative effect of this downward economic spiral and these most recent
"shocks" to the system can be seen in the trends in key economic indica-
tors between 1970 and 1982: per capita real income declined by 30 per-
cent; import volumes fell by a third; real export earnings fell 52 per-
cent; domestic savings and investment declined from 12 and 14 percent of
GDP .espectively in 1970 to almost insignificant levels; inflation
averaged 44 percent per annum over the period.
A Program of Reforms
12.       The Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC) which came to
power under the leadership of Flt. Lt. Rawlings on December 31, 1981,
established a National Economic Review Committee early in 1982 to review
the country's economic difficulties and to develop an adjustment program
that would check this downward economic spiral and pave the way for
national economic recovery. An Economic Recovery Program was developed
by the Government in close coordination with the IMF and the World Bank.
The program was supported in the period April 1983 to August 1984 through
a (First) Standby Arrangement for SDR 238.5 million and through IDA
financed operations including a Reconstruction Import Credit (US$40
million) and two Export Rehabilitation Projects (US$93 million). Support
for the period August 1984 to December 1985 is being extended through a
(Second) Standby Arrangement for SDR 180 million and a Second Reconstruc-
tion Imports Credit (US$60 million). Since its inception, the Economic
Recovery Program has focussed on:



-4-
(a) establishing a more realistic exchange rate, which has
resulted in an exchange rate movement from ¢ 2.75 - US$1.00
to e 50.00 - US$1.00 within a twenty month period;
(b) establishing realistic relative prices and incomes in the
context of the new exchange rate. Cocoa producer prices were
raised by 67 percent to e 20,000 per ton on May 1, 1983 and
further to 9 30,000 per ton for the current crop year
(1984/85). A further increase is expected to be announced
for the next crop year (1985/86). In the case of all admin-
istered prices of imported goods and services, or inputs, a
full pass through of the higher cedi cost following the
exchange rate movement was effected. Public sector salaries
and wages, and statutory minimum wages were raised to offset
in part the drastic erosion in real incomes. Public utili-
ties announced substantial tariff adjustments to more realis-
tic levels;
(c) increasing domestic resource mobilization, by an improved
public savings effort, and by improving the environment for
private savings and investment. Since the last one and a
half years, all interest rates were raised by 65-70 percent,
or by 4.5-6.5 percentage points; and
(d) rehabilitation programs for key sectors designed to ensure a
prompt supply side response to the planned improvement in
incentives. The three IDA-financed import sector credits
(and the proposed Second Reconstruction Imports Credit) are
intended to help achieve such response.
13.       Following the announcement of this program, the Bank, in
consultation with the Government, decided to reactivate the Ghana Consul-
tative Group, which had lain dormant for 13 years. There has been a good
response to this initiative. The Group met in Paris first in Novem-
ber 1983 and for the second time in December 1984 and has been broadly
supportive of the Government's program. Aid indications provided at the
meeting of about $415 million, together with the existing aid pipeline,
could generate disbursements during the year exceeding US$300 million.
This, together with the IMP Standby and the Bank's proposed Second
Reconstruction Imports Credit, is designed to help finance the third year
of the Economic Recovery Program (1985) by:
(a) an increase in imports, which would in turn stimulate
domestic production and exports; and
(b) a further reduction in Ghana's past payments arrears
(US$256.8 million at end December 1984).
Response of the Economy
14.       Data are inadequate to assess in depth the response of the
economy to this major dose of policy reforms.   However, it does appear
that while the country experienced almost no growth in 1983, economic
recovery was evident during 1984. The overall growth of the economv is



-5-
estimated at over 6 percent in 1984. This is the first major upswing
that Ghana's economy has experienced since 1978. The weather provides
a major explanation for this improved performance although impToved
supplies of imported inputs were also making an impact in the latter half
of 1984. The near normal rainfall patterns in 1984 have resulted in a
sharp recovery in agricultural production, and the conseoq.ent decline in
food prices since May 1984 is providing much needed relief.  Energy
availability has also improved, as water levels rose In the Akosombo and
Kpong reservoirs, and as petroleum imports returned to more normal
levels. Capacity utilization in manufacturing, while still unacceptably
low, has improved compared to 1983. About one-half of the one million
returnees from Nigeria are believed to have re-migrated. The response of
donors to Ghana's recovery program in 1984 has also been encouraging.
While much remains to be done, Ghana now needs to build on the momentum
it has generated.
15.       The Budget.  In broad terms, the structure of the budget has
improved: (i) revenues financed 65 percent of current expenditures in
1982, 76 percent in 1983, and are estimated to finance 99 percent in
1984; (ii) the proportion of total expenditures financed by revenues has
risen from 57 percent to 82 percent; (iii) development expenditures and
net lending are estimated to rise from less than 5 percent of total
expenditures in recent years to about 14 percent in 1984; and (iv) the
overall budget deficit fell from 4.4 percent of GDP at market prices in
1982 to 2.3 percent in 1983, and is estimated at 1.6 percent in 1984.
16.       Prices.  At the time the reform program was initiated, it was
anticipated that inflation in 1983 could be held to around 50 percent.
This expectation did not materialize because of the severe drought and
the resultant increase in food prices which fuelled the 123 percent
increase in consumer prices in 1983. On a December to December basis,
the index of consumer prices rose by 142 percent during 1983. After the
initial large increases associated more with the drought than with the
exchange rate adjustment, the inflation rate dropped sharply. In the
eight months following April 1983, prices rose by 50 percent. That
inflation was not higher, despite the large exchange rate adjustment, is
evidence of the fact that most prices already reflected sc..rcity values,
and that fiscal and monetary policies have been largely successful in
curbing inflation. The good rains and the abundant crops have helped
reduce inflation further in 1984, with the annual rate through August
1984 down to 23 percent.
17.       Balance of Paymerts.  The main feature of the balance of
payments results for 1983 was a decline in exports in current dollar
terms for the third successive year. At US$440 million, merchandise
exports were 28 percent below the level of 1982 and 60 percent below the
1980 level. There were several principal causes of this poor perfor-
mance. Of these, the most obvious was the serious impact on the volume
of cocoa exports of the drought and bush fires which affected many parts
of the country in 1983. It is estimated that the drought accounted for a
loss in this sector alone of some US$80 million in exports, the volume of
which reached an all-time low of 170,000 tons - about 35 percent below
the 1982 level. For the other export sector most seriously affected by



-6-
the drought--electricity--the impact was noL felt until 1984. However,
the fact that non-cocoa exports were some US$86 million (or 35 percent)
down against recovery program expectations indicates that other negative
factors were at work--notably, the severe transport bottlenecks and
managerial constraints discussed above. As a result of thie shortfall in
exports and lower than expected disbursements from foreign aid commit-
men:s, overall, the value of merchandise imports fell by 8.5 percent as
compared with 1982.  However, as a result of a substantial (although
largely forced) cutback in oil imports, non-oil imports, taken together,
were about 33 percent higher than in 1982. This still left the economy
with severe shortages of raw materials, spares, and equipment, as imports
were some 37 percent below their 1980 levels in real terms.  The net
r-sult was that the current account deficit for 1983 (excluding grant
aid) nearly doubled as compared with 1982 to US$356 million-equal to
3.3 percent of GDP--while the overall balance of payments moved from a
surplus of US$27 millior. in 1982 to a deficit of US$243 million in 1983.
This deficit was more than covered by net purchases from the Fund under
the First Standby and CFF (US$259 million), so that it was still possible
to reduce arrears of foreign debt by US$34 million.
18.       Preliminary data on the 1984 balance of payments out-turn
suggest a considerable improvement in the overall balance of payments
position in 1984. This is due to an improvement in Ghana's export prices,
and a substantial increase in capital receipts. The value of exports is
estimated to have risen to US$566 million, a 29 percent increase over the
very low level of 1983. The recovery of exports is led by cocoa, earn-
ings from which grew by some 45 percent. This is despite a decline in
the volume of cocoa exports, which at 165,000 tons will reach a new low.
However, unit prices for cocoa have risen temporarily by over 50 percent
above 1983 level. Cocoa exports are set to recover to some 200,000 tons
in 1985. Exports of other goods rose much more modestly in 1984 (12 per-
cent over low 1983 levels). Imports rose by some 21 percent. This
partly reflects the return to near normal levels of petroleum imports.
Non-petroleum imports are expected to rise by 17 percent. The terms of
trade improved in 1984 due mainly to the improvement in export prices.
The current account deficit of US$322 million at 3.4 percent of GDP is
substantially below original program projections. Net capital receipts
are projected to increase by some USS70 million to US$200 million in
1984. This is mainly on account of gross aid disbursements which are
expected to nearly double to US$298 million. The capital account might
have looked healthier but for the increase in the level of public sector
amortization payments between 1983 and 1984 from US$85 million to US$123
million, delays on the part of donors in committing quick disbursing aid,
and the relatively slow initial pace of disbursement of such aid.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.       Ghana's medium- and long-term external public debt outstanding
and disbursed at end-1983 is estimated at about US$1.1 billion, repre-
senting less than 4 percent of GDP. The debt service of public and
publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term debt was estimated at around
10.7 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services in 1982.
However, it is estimated to have risen sharply to 26.3 percent in 1983 on
account of both a further decline in export earnings and the expiration



-7-
date of the grace period on rescheduled debt. Arrears on Ghana's short-
term aebt went from US$245 mdllion in 1977 to US$601 million by the end
of April 1983. The arrears are now being reduced in a phased manner
under the economic recovery program. By December 1984, they declined to
around US$256.8 million, a rate of reduction beyond the IHF requirement.
A further net reduction of US$60 mi2llion is planned for 1985.
20.       Ghana must rely on official sources for most of the external
capital required to support its development program; relatively little of
its medium- and long-term borrowing is on commercial terms. Consequent-
ly. Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed at end-1983 (USS192.1 million)
together represented about 17.5 percent of the country's estimated public
external debt of US$1.095 billion at end-1983. Service payments on these
loans and credits accounted for 25 percent of the country's external debt
service, but they are projected to decline to 17 percent of external debt
service by 1987 as other sources of lending revive. Bank Group commit-
ments on a per capita basis amounted to only US$1.76 during 1977-82.
Lending dropped to less than a project a year during this period before
increasing sharply in 1983 to support the economic reform program.
21.       Ghana's extremely difficult economic situation and its vulnera-
bility to fluctuations in cocoa export earnings make it desirable that
future debt service obligations be kept as low as possible. Consequent-
ly, Ghana wlll have to depend on IDA resources for Bank Group borrowing
over the next few years. This is also consistent with Ghana's relatively
low per capita income. At the same time, to help ensure an adequate flow
of foreign exchange into the country and support the country's resource
mobilization efforts, it would be appropriate to finance a significant
portion of local costs of projects.
PART II - BSK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
Lending Strategy
22.         The principal objectives which now guide the formulation of
the Bank's assistance program to Ghana are: (a) to support the adoption
of policies designed to reverse the downward trend in the economy and
return it to a path of growth; (b) to help rehabilitate and improve
capacity utilization of the country's existing assets; (c) to stimulate
agricultural and industrial production, particularlv for export promotion
and efficient import substitution; and (d) to improve the country's
essential infrastructure (transport, water, petroleum, power) and relieve
major bottlenecks to increased production. The Bank Group also plans a
substantial increase in economic and sector work to broaden and deepen
understanding of the constraints which are likely to impede the recovery
process, to provide direction to our future lending and the design of
project components. To assist in the deepening and strengthening of
policy reforms and pave the way for a structural adjustment credit, a
Second Reconstruction Import Credit for $60 million has been appraised.
In both lending and economic and sector work, attention will be given to
ways of strengthening the institutions responsible for economic manage-
ment and development spending. The Bank's dialogue has been most



-8-
effective, and the Government continues to be both re-eptive and respon-
sive to the Bank's advice.
23.       A major impediment to Ghana's economic recovery is the dilapi-
dated conditions of roads and low transport capacity. This Accra Dis-
trict Rehabilitation Project is designed to remove transport bottlenecks
in the movement of exports and imports through the improvement of Accra's
road network.  The Project's road rehabilitation component is part of a
coordinated effort to remove major transport bottlenecks together with
the port component of the ongoing Export Rehabilitation Project, Third
Highway and proposed Road Rehabilitation and Port projects.  In addition,
the revaluation of properties, which has not been carried out for the
past several years, will improve Accra's finances and permit the city to
reduce dependence on Government subventions. The improved accounting and
financial management system developed for Accra in this project would be
directly applicable to the other urban districts. The project also
includes upgrading of a small area inhabitated by about 19,000 people.
This will have a significant impact on Government policy through the
demonstration of cost-effective alternatives to high-cost housing and
slum clearance.
Past Operations
24.       Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has made 10 loans totalling US$190.4 million and 26 cred-
its tutalling US$408.2 million. In addition, Ghana is a beneficiary of a
Bank-financed regional clinker project covering three countries (Togo,
Ivory Coast, and Ghana). An IFC investment of US$55 million in Ashanti
Goldfields Corporation in Ghana was approved in June 1984. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of December
31, 1984.
25.         Agriculture has been a major focus of Bank Group lending,
receiving 21.8 percent of the Bank Group's lending to Ghana. The lending
progra.i in agriculture has covered fisheries (1969), Eastern °egion cocoa
(1970), sugar rehabilitation (1973), livestock development (1974),
Ashanti Region cocoa (1975), oil palm (1975 and 1984), Upper Region
agricultural development (1976), and Volta Region agricultural develop-
ment (1980). The main thrust of the Bank Group's operations in agricul-
ture has been to assist the country in achieving greater self-sufficiency
in agricultural production, particularly food and raw materials for agro
industries, and rehabilitating the cocoa subsector. Alongside agri-
culture, power generation and distribution has also been a major focus
of Bank Group lending (21.7 percent). The sector has been assisted by
three power generation prejects and three power distribution projects.
Transportation is the third most important sector in the Bank Group's
program in Ghana (16.1 percent of commitments). Projects financed in the
sector include three road projects (in 1973, 1975 and 1980) and a railway
rehabilitation project approved in 1981. The road projects focussed
initially on rehabilitation and reconstruction of part of the country's
main trunk road system. In light of rapid deterioration in the entire
road sector, later emphasis was placed on emergency maintenance to keep
roads open for agricultural and export traffic. A telecomnmruications



-9-
project currently under implementation aims at improving and expanding
domestic telephone services in Accra and major urban centers. In the
field of water supply two projects (in 1969 and 1974) have helped
increase and improve the water supply in the Accra/Tema metropolitan area
and adjacent rural areas. A third water supply project was approved in
March 1983 to help carry out emergency repairs and maintenance on the
pipeline from Kpong which presently provides two thirds of the Accra
water supply. In the manufacturing sector, two DFC operations (in 1975
and 1979) have financed investment projects in manufacturing and
agro-industry undertaken by small and medium enterprises. The main
emphasis in this sector has been to encourage enterprises using local raw
materials and which are capable of contributing to foreign exchange
earnings and savings. In the energy sector, a project aimed at
strengthening Ghana's technical capacity to accelerate petroleum explora-
tion was approved in May 1983. A second project in the sector, approved
in March 1984, will provide technical assistance and finance immediate
requirements for rehabilitation of Ghana's sole refinery.
Project Implementation Experience
26.       The serious economic difficulties which the country has experi-
enced in recent years have adversely affected implementation of a number
of Bank Group-financed projects. The dwindling revenue base of the
Government has constrained its ability to finance the local costs of
projects, and the lack of foreign exchange has resulted in a severe
shortage of imported materials and spare parts required for the operation
and maintenance of completed projects; the mass exodus of qualified
Ghanaians to neighboring countries, and demoralization, absenteeism and
low productivity among the remaining work force have also adversely
affected project performance. The unusually adverse condition surround-
ing Bank Group-financed projects and their generally poor performance
have been described in greater detail in the Project Performance Audi;.
Reports. Overall, the main conclusion of the reports was that macroeco-
nomic and sectoral policv constraints were the major factors responsible
for poor performance of the audited projects. Because of delays experi-
enced in the implementation of a number of Bank Group projects in Ghana,
the disbursement performance is behind appraisal estimates. Annual. gross
disbursements over the four-vear period FY81-84 have averaged about 20
percent of outstanding loan/credit commitments and as of December 31, 1984,
US$202.8 million remained undisbursed.  The Bank Group has held periodic
implementation reviews with the Goverrment to identify steps which could
be taken by borrowers and the Bank Group to accelerate disbursement on
ongoing loans and credits.
IFC Operations
27.       IFC approved an investment of US$55 million in the mining
sector (Ashanti Goldfields Corporation Ltd.) in June 1984. IFC's invest-
ment comprises: (i) a loan of US$45 million of which US$22.5 million is
for IFC's own account and US$22.5 million for the account of partici-
pants; and (ii) a standby loan of US$10 million of which US$5 million is
for IFC's account and US$5 million is for the account of participants.
This is IFC's first investment in Ghana. The loans will help finance a
USS158 million rehabilitation project designed to increase gold output



- 10 -
from about 260,000 oz. expected in 1983/84 to 400,000 oz in FY 1989/90, a
level of production AGC last achieved in the early seventies before the
deterioration in Ghana's foreign exchange situation began to affect
production at the mine.
lhe Bank's Response to Ghana's Economic Recovery Program.
28.       In response to Ghana's economic recovery program, the Executive
Directors approved a US$40 million Reconstruction Import Credit in
June 1983 and a US$76 million Export Rehabilitation Project and a
US$17.1 million Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project in
January 1984. A proposed Second Reconstruction Imports Credit of US$60
million is intended to provide further support to the economic recovery
program. In addition to these projects, a more broadly-based program of
rehabilitation of the country's economic assets will be required. In the
near term IDA would support a program to rebuild the network of trunk
roads including a major bridge reconstruction component, and provide
assistance to rehabilitate the power distribution system. In agricul-
ture, further assistance to the development of cocoa is envisaged given
the overwhelming importance of this crop, at least in the short term, for
foreign exchange earnings. In energy, through a Petroleum Refinery
Rehabilitatioa and Technical Assistance Credit approved in March 1984,
assistance is being provided to help reduce the cost of petroleum prod-
ucts required by the country. In brief, projects with major r-habil-
itation components are likely to absorb the bulk of Bank Group resources
for the next few years as these are likely to show the highest benefits
and quickest returns. For the outer years, the Bank will begin to
examine prospects for new productive investments including support for
education, health and other important activities in the social sectors.
The extent to which the Bank Group can provide financial and technical
assistance to support such a broad-based program will be conditioned upon
the performance of the Government in carrying through its economic
recovery program.
29.       The Government of Ghana has requested the Bank Group to help
muster external assistance through cofinancing and more generally in the
context of strengthened aid coordination. At the request of the Govern-
ment, the Bank Group convened a second meeting of the Ghana Consultative
Group on December 11 and 12, 1984. The participants of tie meeting
re-endorsed the Government's economic recovery program, and it is expect-
ed that the foreign exchange requirements for 1985 under the program will
be substantially met by the donors' contribution.



- 11 -
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Accra
30.       Approximately 36 percent of Ghana's present population of 12
million live in urban areas. The urban growth rate (5.1 percent) is
70 percent higher than the overall rate of population increase and by the
end of the century the urban population is expected to exceed 50 percent
of total population. About one-third of the urban population is concen-
trated in the capital of Accra (approximately 1.4 million population in
the Greater Accra Region, according to the 1984 census). Accra has been
Ghana's preeminent city since the capital of the Gold Coast Colony was
transferred from Cape Coast early in the colonial era. The city is
situated on the sea in the dry southeastern coastal plain. It is the
commercial/administrative center of the country and the second largest
industrial center (after the neighboring city of Teua). EXpanding at a
rate of about 5 percent annually, the city's population will double
before the year 2000.
Urban Institutions
31.       At the national level, the Ministry of Works and Housing (MUH)
is most directly responsible for urban development, having under its
aegis urban planning, and the development of townships and housing
estates (through several parastatals). EWH has been responsible for the
Government's sector programs to date, which have been based on implicit
policies of subsidized infrastructure provision in public and privately
developed areas, and the development of subsidized, high-cost rental
flats and housing estates. The Ministry of Local Government (MLG),
through its Inspectorate, Its training school and its Valuation Depart-
ment, has a policy, coordination and training role in relation to munici-
palities, and is responsible for property valuation. These functions are
critical to the local authorities in reversing the technical and finan-
cial decline of the cities. The Ministry of Roads and Righways, which
through the Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) and the Feeder Roads Department
is responsible for the construction and maintenance of all roads in the
country, has a vital role in relation to urban infrastructure. Responsi-
bility for urban roads, which heretofore has been delegated to the
municipalities, has recently reverted to the Highway Authority. At the
local level, the Accra City Council (ACC) is responsible for primary and
secondary school construction and maintenance, urban infrastructure,
waste disposal, and other services in the Accra District, with a popula-
tion of 965,000 in 1984, the most populous of the four districts forming
the Greater Accra Region (Accra District, Tema District, and two rural
districts lying inland). ACC is one of Ghana's 67 local government
districts, which are the local taxing authorities. Responsibilities
include education (except teachers' salaries), sanitation, solid waste
management, and provision and maintenance of public markets.
32.       Institutional Reorganization.  The Government has recently
begun to take measures to improve the organization of Urban sector
institutions. A Lands Valuation Board (LVB) is to be established which



- 12 -
viii centralize currently scattered property valuation functions and make
more efficient use of scarce manpower in this field. MWG would surrender
its Valuation Department, as would the Ministry of Lands and Mineral Re-
sources. With budgetary and administrative autonomy, LVB would provide a
better vehicle for updating the tax base of Accra and other urban
areas. 1/  Authority for setting the level of property tax charges and
for collecting property tax would remain with the local authorities. MUR
recently established the Technical Services Center (TSC) to develop and
undertake innovative approaches to urban problems.
33.       The Government has also recently begun to implement a decen-
tralization program, designed to make local government more autonomous,
more responsive to local needs, and more technically capable of providing
services. This should help to reverse the financial decline and deterio-
ration in service delivery, thereby giving local authorities control of
their affairs by harnessing local initiative and by tapping neglected
local sources of revenue. The program involves ending the direct con-
nection and dependency relationship between district authorities, grouped
into regions, and central government ministries, making each region
solely responsible for planning and administering its own development
programs. Each region is headed by a Regional Secretary with cabinet
rank. Each sectcr of Government would have offices at the regional and
district levels which vould report to the Regional Secretary. Ministries
at the national level would be responsible only for policy, performance
monitoring, and personnel matters. While the Regions would not be given
taxing authority, they would take on the function of reviewing and
approving district budgets previously held by the Hinistry of Local
Government, and would be given a broader responsibilitv to set regional
spending priorities and exercise control over allocation of district
resources through a multi-year reglonal development plan. While the
decentralization progr3m is underway in the Eastern and Volta Regions, it
is moving slowly and the Government has requested Bank Group assistance
in the planning and implementation of a training program to be carried
out by the Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration
(GIMPA) for local authority personnel to improve the progress of decen-
tralization.
34.       An interim measure of the program is the transfer of respon-
sibility for urban roads from the local authorities to GHA (effective
January 1, 1984) until the local authorities are sufficiently
1/       The establishment of LVB has been delayed due to the difficulty
of recruiting a suitable director and other appropriately
qualified staff. Because of the uncertainty about when LVB
would be operational, and since the objectives of the project
can be achieved through the MLG Valuation Department, LVB has
not been retained as an executing agency for the project and is
not described further in this report. Should LVB become
operational during the project, the transfer of the Valuation
Department and its responsibilities in relation to the project
to LVB are not expected to pose problems.



- 13 -
strengthened to adequately assume the responsibility. 2/  The new Accra
GUA, but will be transferred back to ACC on December 31, 1987, by which
tim the Unit will be functional and ACC will be financially ready. ADRU
would be one of several technical departments to be spun off from central
government and attached to ACC tc strengthen its service and maintenance
capability. By consolidating scarce equipment and technical manpower,
this reorganization, appropriately supported, could provide a better
mechanism for lasting improvements to the road and drainage network in
Accra.
Sector Problems
35.       Deteriorated Road and Drainage Network. The condition of the
once highly-developed urban infrastructure in Accra has severely deteri-
orated. The road network is extensive, comprising 946 km, of which
550 km are paved and 396 km are gravel. Of the paved roads, 28 km are
considered part of the national trunk road network while the remaining
(522 km) are city arterials or local roads. All the gravel roads are
local in nature. In terms of alignment. tne arterial network shows no
significant geometric design shortcomings and traffic capacivies are
generally satisfactory. There are discontinuities, particularly in the
motorway/outer bypass network carrying port traffic around the city. Due
to lack of maintenance in recent years, the condition of the urban road
network, especially th-- heavily-traveled paved roads, has deteriorated
and suffers from var-ying degrees of pavement distress, moderate to
extensive, over much of the paved network, with severe distress condi-
tions on large sections of the trunk and city arterial roads. The
remsining pavement life is, on average, five years.
36.       This deterioration of the network and the missing network links
cause extensive delay in the movement of goods and services (particularly
to and from the ports), damage to vehicles and equipment, very high
vehicle operating costs, and loss of life due to accidents. Traffic
bottlenecks countrywide have seriously affected the implementation of the
Government's economic program by slowing down movement of import/export
items, including emergency food aid. As a result, eliminating traffic
bottlenecks has become one of the main objectives of the Government's
budgetary applications and the international community's aid efforts.
Due to the lack of routine maintenance, the drainage system in Accra has
also deteriorated to the point of ceasing to function in many places, and
flooding during the rainy season causes extended road blockages and
further deterioration of the road network.
37.       Poor Infrastructure in Residential Areas.  The city's growth
long ago exceeded the capacity of national and city governments to
provide for the increasing population or to maintain existing infra-
structure. As a result, Accra is characterized by poorly serviced or
2/        However, given GHA's own current institutional problems, this
move appears to have been ill-timed.



- 14 -
badly-deteriorated areas such as James Town, Ussher Town, Nima-Maamobi,
Mnamprobi, Zongo, and Teshie. These communities suffer from the lack of,
or poor condition of, roads, drainage, sanitation, water supply, 3/
electricity, and refuse disposal systems. In addition, many of these
areas lack basic medical, educational, and other community facilities.
More than 50 percent of the city's population lives in these areas.
38.       Serious health hazards for the majority of the city's popu-
lation are posed by seasonal flooding caused by poor drainage, unco7lect-
ed garbage due to the lack of an effective solid waste management system,
and exposed human waste (which turns Accra's main drainage basin-the
Korle Lagoon-into an open sewer) due to the absence of a sanitation
system.
39.       Institutional Weaknesses and Need for Training.  In spite of
Government's recent efforts to strengthen some sector institutions, all
the ministries and agencies active in the urban sector suffer from
problems related to a lack of traired staff or othervise inadequate
technical capability. While it has advocated policy reforms and new
approaches such as sites and services, upgrading, reduction of subsidies
and improved cost recovery in housing, Ministry of Works and Housing
(MWR) has lacked the technical capability to depart from the
well-established housing and land development policies of the past.
Ministry of Local Government (MLG) has not been able to effectively
assist the local authorities to stop their financial and technical
decline. Its training program has neither an appropriate curriculum nor
the capacity to ensure adequate numbers of trained staff to the local
authorities. The Valuation Department suffers from an acute lack of
trained staff. GHA has experienced considerable difficulty in carrying
its responsibility in relation to trunk roads, and has neither the
capacity nor the capability to assume effective responsibility for urban
roads which have recently been added to its burden. Accra City Council's
department heads and its accounting and revenue staff require training in
the new budgeting system to be introduced in connection with the decen-
tralization, as well as in improved collection procedures. The Accra
District Roads Unit lacks key technical staff (and equipment), and staff
need training if road mainterance is to be improved.
40.       Deteriorated Municipal Finances.  ACC suffers from acute
shortages of key technical and financial personnel, as well as from an
almost total lack of machinery and vehicles necessary for maintenance and
service activities. These problems are due, in part, to the general
3/        Improvement of water supply in the Accra area is being
addressed under the Water Supply Technical Assistance and
Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 1342), which is financing
the rehabilitation of the main pipeline (from the Kpong
reservoir) and technical assistance to improve the management
and operations of the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation.
However, the water distribution network has not been extended
into some areas of the city, the Nima-Maamobi area included.



- 15 -
economic decline but are also due to ACC's poor financial condition which
has deteriorated rapidly since 1975. The tax base has been seriously
eroded and collection performance has declined. As a consequences ACC
has grown more dependent on central government subsidies which cover all
salaries now representing more than three-quarters of total revenues,
compared to 55 percent in 1975. Expenditure on materials for maintenance
and capital works, which must be covered out of internal revenues alone,
represented about 10 percent of the total in 1983, down from 50 percent
in 1975. Capital expenditure has, in fact, been virtually nil since
1979, the first year it came to less than 10 percent of the total.
Improving service delivery and infrastructure maintenance, and reversing
the financial decline vill require considerable support to introduce
improved accounting, budgeting and control procedures, to enforce pen-
alties for non-payment, to update the tax base and fee and rate levels,
and to improve collections.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       Preparation of the project in its current form effectively
began in August 1980. Using funds remaining from an earlier PPF for an
urban project, MWH engaged a consultant to assist its project preparation
unit in repreparing the upgrading component, updating planning concepts,
costs, socioeconomic data and implementation arrangements, while other
components were being prepared in cooperation with MLG and ACC. The
project was preappraised in November 1981, but the change in government
in December 1981 halted further processing while new approaches to
development were being worked out and development priorities redeter-
mined. A preparation mission in November/December 1983 reconfirmed the
priority o' the project an-i its individual components in the Government's
economic recovery program, with particular emphasis on eliminating
traffic bottlenecks created largely by heavy weight import-export related
traffic detouring through the city because of missing motorway sections.
Following further preparation financed by a new PPF provided under IDA
terms and a CIDA grant (CPPE), appraisal took place in May/June 1984.
Detailed design of the East Maamobi component and various preimplementa-
tion activities (referencing of properties for revaluation, training of
ACC personnel, initial twinning visits, etc.) are being financed by the
IDA PPF. An additional Can$150,000 is being considered by CIDA for the
detailed design of the roads/drainage component.
42.       In its earlier form, the project included solid waste manage-
ment and sanitation components. In 1980, the Government requested assis-
tance from the Federal Republic of Germany in these areas in the city of
Accra and a KfW/GTZ project was consequently prepared. There has been
close cooperation between the Bank Group and KfWIGTZ staff during the
preparation of the two projects, which are mutually supportive. The Bank
project, for example, makes provision for sufficient revenues to be
raised to cover solid waste vehicle renewals and running costs, as well
as for the road maintenance program receiving direct Bank support. The
KfW/GTZ project got underway in November 1984 and the full technical



- 16 -
assistance team and the equipment are expected to be in place by
June 1985.
Project Justification and Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
43.       The project vill support the Bank Group's country assistance
strategy and the Government's economic recovery program by removing
bottlenecks in the movement of exports and imports through improving
roads rehabilitation, domestic resource mobilization, and upgrading
maintenance. The project focuses on improving and completing the Accra
outer ring road which will carry Tema port traffic around the city
center. This traffic, mostly very heavy trucks, is deteriorating city
trunk roads and streets. The completed outer ring will result in speedi-
er and less costly movement of export and import items. The project vill
also develop a maintenance capacity within the City Council to protect
the substantial investment in the city's vital road and drainage network.
44.       The project also supports Bank Group objectives by reducing the
burden on GEll through the transfer of ADRU to ACC, and by demonstrating
the feasibility of urban road maintenance by a local authority rather
than GMA. The resource mobilization component will improve the city's
finances and its ability to provide services and maintain road and
drainage infrastructure. The progressive improvements in Accra's financ-
es, particularly property taxes, should ultimately permit the city to
reduce its dependence on government subventions. The improved accounting
and financial management systems developed for Accra in this project will
also be directly applicable to the other urbanized districts. The
upgrading component, although relatively small, should be highly visible
and will have a significant impact on Government policy through the
demonstration of cost-effective alternatives to high-cost housing and
slum clearance.
45.       Bank Group involvement is necessary because of the lack of
funds and relevant expertise in the Government and the lack of other
bilateral and multilateral sources of financing. The Bank Group has been
a major donor supporting the removal of transport bottlenecks in urban
areas. Several other donors have made minor commitments to this project
but the donor community in general is committing available resources to
the Export Rehabilitation Credit and the ongoing and proposed Reconstruc-
tion Import Credits. The Bank Group is also a major donor in a position
to influence Goverrment policy on municipal organization and finance,
which the project aims to change.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The objectives of the project are:
(a) to remove transport bottlenecks in Accra which are con-
straining general economic recovery;
(b) to mobilize revenues at the municipal level in Accra;
(c) to demonstrate cost-effective improvements to basic
infrastructure in a small central area of Accra; and



- 17 -
(d) to strengthen the capacity of institutions responsible for
infrastructure maintenance in Accra (ACC/ADRU) and urban
project management (TSC).
47.       The main features of the project are as follows:
(a)  Infrastructure Rehabilitation
(i) Road and Drainage Rehabilitation and Maintenance:
*                              Civil works, technical assistance, vehicles, equip-
ment, materials, training, and food incentives in
support of the Accra District Roads Unit of ACC/GHA.
This component will help establish and carry out a
six-year program involving the completion of the
missing portion of the Accra outer ring road, the
rehabilitation of four other major road sections, and
routine and periodic maintenance of the road and
drainage network of the city of Accra. The component
also includes a study of the Accra Central Business
District to determine road network requirements and
traffic management measures; a small provision for
pilot measures and minor works consequent to the
study is also included; and
(ii) Basic Infrastructure Upgrading in East Maamobi:
Basic roads, drainage, water supply, electricity,
sanitation and garbage disposal in a 30 ha area of
Nima-Maamobi east of the Nima highway and north of
the Nima stream inhabited by approximately 19,000
people. This component includes the acquisition of
land for roads, public facilities, and compensation
for structures displaced by the infrastructure. It
also includes technical assistance, %ehicles and
equipment for the implementation of this component as
vell as the coordination of the project as a whole.
(b) Resource Mobilization
(i) Property Revaluation: Technical assistance, vehi-
cles, equipment, and training to assist the MNG
Valuation Department in carrying out revaluation of
properties, beginning in Accra, improving management
and control systems in valuation, and training of
valuers and other technical personnel both within and
outside Ghana; and
(ii) Municipal Revenue Mobilization: Technical assis-
tance, computer hardware, and vehicles for ACC to
improve revenue collection and financial management;
local consultancies for curriculum development and
delivery of sLort coarses for ACC staff and manutals
of procedure; vehicles, equipment, and books for the
MLG Local Government Training School; short overseas
study visits for key ACC staff.



- 18 -
Efforts have been made in designing the project to keep the recruitment
of external firms or individuals to a minimum (through the use of local
private sector valuers for some of the property revaluation and the Ghana
Institute of Management and Public Administration for some technical
assistance and training requirements) and to improve the delivery and
effectiveness of external technical assistance where it is unavoidable
(through the twinning of Accra City Council with Staffordshire County
Council of the UK and the Valuation Department with the UK Valuation
Office). These arrangements will mean that individual external recruit-
ment and external consulting firms will be required for only a few
specialized tasks accounting for less than a quarter of the combined
total for contract services (55 staff-years) and technical assistance
(27 staff-years).  Such tasks include a part of civil works design and
supervision, a traffic study, recruitment of the project manager if a
suitable Ghanaian cannot be found, and other minor short-term assistance.
Project Implementation
48.       The project will require about six years to implement, begin-
ning about April 1985, but disbursement of the greater part of the IDA
credit is expected to take place during the first three years. The
Ministry of Works and Housing (MWH) will have responsibility for the
coordination and administration of the project because it has been the
lead ministry for the project since its identification, and has set up a
relatively well-staffed unit to coordinate the project. The Technical
Services Center (TSC), established under MWH as the unit to execute
special government projects in the urban sector, will have overall
responsibility for project coordination and will be strengthened by the
project through the provision of a project engineer (individual inter-
national recruitment) and short-term assistance in accounting and other
areas defined during the course of the project. The existing staff of
TSC, mostly architect/planners and drafting personnel, will be supple-
mented by additional local engineering and accounting staff seconded from
MWH or other government agencies.
49.       TSC will have primary responsibility for the East Maamobi
component and will coordinate the inputs of the project to the other
components. It will maintain consolidated project accounts and will
coordinate expenditure of IDA contributions to all components. TSC, with
the assistance of consultants, will supervise the infrastructure works to
be undertaken in the East Maamobi component. To insure the coordination
of the various activities of the project, an interagency coordinating
committee has been established with representation from the concerned
bodies and chaired by the representative of MWH.
Road and Drainage Rehabilitation and Maintenance
50.       The Roads Unit, initially under joint GHA/ACC direction and
later under ACC direction, will be responsible for the implementation of
the road and drainage rehabilitation and maintenance component which will
take the form of a six-year program. Road rehabilitation works will be
undertaken by international contractors supervised by consultants engaged
by ADRU. The routine and periodic maintenance program will commence in
the first year, starting with a relatively small annual program and



- 19 -
building up gradually as ADRU's contractor supervision and direct labor
capability increases. ADRU staff will receive food incentive in addition
to wages under the existing incentive program financed and managed by WFP
which has recently been extended to cover GBA and ADRU employees. Local
contractors will undertake most periodic maintenance while ADRU will
undertake directly routine and some periodic maintenance. The local
contractors will be engaged by ADRU in accordance with local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures to be agreed at negotiations. ADRU management
and technical personnel will be strengthened by technical assistance and
training which will focus on programming and operation of continuous road
and drainage maintenance, and on vehicle and equipment fleet maintenance
and operation. The objective of this assistance is to build ADRU into a
self-contained unit to minimize the impact on GRA and prepare ADRU for
its transfer to ACC (Development Credit Agreement Section 3.05). The
assistance to ADRU is included in the twinning arrangement with
Staffordshire County Council. The road completion and rehabilitation
draft final design and the first year's maintenance program will be
completed prior to Board presentation. Further design of the maintenance
program will be undertaken annually on the basis of priority works
identified during each year. ADRU will also engage consultants to
undertake the Central Business District study and will undertake the
minor works ensuing from the study.
Resource Mobilization at Municipal Level
51.       The resource mobilization component will be the primary respon-
sibility of ACC and MLG. ACC City Treasurer's Department has embarked on
a program of increased collection of revenues from the most important
sources, primarily property rates, market fees and business licenses.
This program, begun in January 1985, is based on a revalued property tax
base (as established by MLG Valuation Department) and improved revenue
assessment and collections procedures in the City Treasurer's Department.
Tax rate increases and revenue collection targets identified and dis-
cusset at appraisal were agreed at negotiations and will be revieved
annual.y with the Bank Group on the basis of each year's performance and
ACC revenue requirements for the following year (Development Credit
Agreement, Schedule 3, Section E). The City Treasurer's Department will
be strengthened through a technical twinning arrangement with
Staffordshire (UK) County Council, which will provide residential expert
assistance supplemented by periodic short-term visits by specialist
Staffordshire County Council staff and consultancies as needed. The
twinning arrangement will assist the Treasurer and other ACC department
heads to introduce a service-oriented accounting system, to improve
financial management, revenue assessment, revenue and debt collection,
and operating budget preparation and control, and to strengthen internal
audit. An initial twinning visit in September 1984 led to an agreement
to adopt a new management accounting and information system and detailed
action plans for revision of accounting arrangements, preparation of the
1985 budget, and improving revenue collection and debt recovery proce-
dures. A draft twinning agreement covering assistance to the Treasurer's
Department, the roads unit and the City Engineer's Department has been
reviewed and agreed in principle by ACC and SCC. Local consultancies
could be carried out in part by the Ghana Institute of Management and
Public Administration (GINPA), in particular, design and delivery of



- 20 -
vorkshops for ACC, which it has already successfully begun, and training
for decentralization, a responsibility it has recently been given by
Government. GIMPA, which is an experienced Government-funded management
consulting and training body, could then offer similar courses to other
district government staff under their normal arrangements.
Property Revaluation
52.       NLG Valuation Department will carry out the revaluation of
properties in Accra as the first phase of a national property revaluation
program which will eventually cover all local authorities in Ghana.  The
first step in the process, which is underway, is the referencing of
properties not currently on the valuation list. This work is being
carried out by local private sector valuers. The newly-referenced
properties will be valued by the Valuation Department, using current
values, and added to the list. This work is expected to be completed by
December 1985. The revaluation program will require three years, and a
complete revalued list will be available in late 1987 and become effec-
tive January 1, 1988. Technical assistance will be provided to fill
current staffing gaps, carry out the revaluation of properties in Accra
using the vehicles, equipment and local valuer services provided by the
project, and improve management and control techniques (Development
Ciedit Agreement, Schedule 3, Section D). A twinning arrangement with
the Valuation Office of the UK is expected to be finalized during a visit
of the Ghana Commissioner of Valuation to UK in February 1985.
Project Costs and Financing
53.       Total project cost is estimated at 0 1,316.4 million
(US$26.3 million) of which 76 percent or e 1,000.1 million
(US$20.0 million) is the foreign exchange component. A breakdown of cost
by major category is given in the Loan and Project Summary. Base costs
as at December 1984 have been calculated in cedis and converted into
US dollars at the official exchange rate of US$1 - 9 50.0 for the calcu-
lation of price contingencies, and the estimated rate of inflation on
foreign costs applied to both foreign and local costs. This assumes that
any persistent divergence in foreign and local rates of inflation will
have to be corrected by exchange rate adjustments. Physical contin-
gencies have been estimated at 15 percent on civil works components and
10 percent on all other components except technical a3sistance and land
acquisition for which no physical contingency is included. Price con-
tingencies for both local and foreign costs are based on rates of infla-
tion of 8 percent for 1985, 9 percent for 1986-88, 7.5 percent for 1989,
and 6 percent for 1990, which are the appraisal mission's best estimates
of expected price increases. On this basis, total contingencies are
estimated at 25 percent of base costs. For Government budgeting purpos-
es, local rates of inflation (30 percent for 1985, 15 percent for
1986-88, 10 percent for 1989-90) have been applied to its annual share of
financing to establish the estimated total cedi contribution required
from Government. Thus, the total Government contribution amounts to
¢ 219 million.  Upgrading design of East Maamobi is complete.  Final
design of road work is underway with field work completed in mid-January
and no major changes in total costs are expected. Any modification in
the total cost will be resolved by shifting the proportions of road and



- 21 -
drainage works within the current cost estimate and vili not change
finacing requiremets.
54.       The proposed IDA credit of US$22.0 million vill finance 84 per-
cent of total project cost (88 percent of total cost net of taxes), 98
percent of foreign exchange costs, and 39 percent of local costs.
Cofinancizg totalling US$490,000 has been committed, 4/ and an addi-
t'onal US$110.000 has been tentatively agreed. 5/ and is expected to be
committed before negotiations. Cofinacing vili then total US$600.000
and vill finance 2 percent of total project cost (2 percent of foreign
exchange costs and 2 percent of local costs). A number of donors active
in Ghana (UK. USAID, KfU, GTZ, Italy, Japan. CIDA. 1FP) were approached
about cofinancing but their resources were committed to either their own
programs or to the Export Rehabilitation and the First and proposed
Second Reconstruction Import Credi-s. The total o' US$600,000 noted
above vas the maximum cofinancing that could be mobilized. The Govern-
vent's coctribution of US$3.7 willion will cover 14 percent of total
costs CUS$2.4 mdllion net of taxes or 10 percent of total cost). The
proposed project is a priority in the Government's current investment
program. The Government and the Bank Group are currently engaged in a
public expenditure review and projects in tiin' core program (which will
include this project) will be sheltered from badgetary constraxnts.
55.       The credit will be made to the Government of Ghana and will be
passed on to EWH, MIG. ACC, and GRA on a grant basis because of the
rehabilitation nature of project works and actlvities. Cofinancing will
also be in the form of grants (CIDA project preparation funds already
utilized for the project have been contributed on a grant basis).
Government's contribution will take the form of budgetary allocations to
each of the executing agencies concerned based on the counterpart financ-
ing required for the components to be carried out by the respective
agencies as detailed in their annual budget requests and reconfirmed in
quarterly work programs and expenditure estimates. Provision fvr the
project has been made by each agency in it; 1985 submission.
41        US$120,000 from CIDA for preliminary road design, US$300,000
from WFP for the food incentive program, USS70,000 from ODA for
training of Valuation Department personnel.
5!        An additional project preparation grant from CIDA for detailed
road design.



- 22 -
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       Procurement of road equipment? -ehicles, spare parts and office
equipment under the project totals about US$3.6 million, including
continjencies. Two bidding packages will be prepared for vehicles and
civil works equipment, and will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group procurement
guidelines: one for ADRU requirements and one for all other vehicles for
executing agencies. The first package will be managed by the Ghana
Highwayl Authority and the second by TSC. Road works totalling some
US$10.5 million, grouped into three packages, will also be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. Procurement of these vorks will be managed by the
Ghana Highway Authority. Consultants' services and training and advisory
services, amounting to a total of about US$7.1 millin,n will be procured
through twinning arrangements, individual recruitment, or through reputa-
ble firms/agencies on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group
and in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Procurement of these
services will be managed by TSC. During recruitment, every effort ill
be made to advertise in the local market and to attract qualified
Ghanaians presently working abroad before recruiting internationally.
57.       Works involved in the East Maamobi component comprising roads,
drainage, water distribution, electricity, sanitation and garbage depots.
totalling about US$1.4 million, are not expected to attract international
contractors, and will be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB)
managed by TSC in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank
Group. Materials for road maintenance(procurement through ICB managed by
the Ghana Highway Authority) and food incentives for ADRU staff (procure-
ment managed by World Food Program) totalling US$1.9 million will be
financed under the project segment for pe;iodic and routine maintenance
of the Accra road and drainage network. Periodic maintenance works
totalling US$400,000 will be awarded to local contractors according to
LCB procedures agreed at negotiations. AIRU will undertake, through
force account, the minor road works (totalling US$770,000) resulting from
the traffic study. Office equipment and supplies totalling about
US$260,000 (individual purchases not to exceed US$20,000) will be pur-
chased locally after at least three quotations are obtained through
normal channels in accordance with Government procedures   Procurement of
office equipment and supplies will be managed by TSC.  The table on the
following page summarizes the procurement arrangements to be followed
under the project. Land acquisition and compensation (totalling
USS650,000) will be managed by MWH through negotiaticns with individual
land and building owners according to normal Gomernment procedures. No
IDA funds will be involved in this component.



GllANA:   ACCRA  D[STRlC'r R"HABII.ITATION  PROJECT
FRGCUREhEfT ARRAKN6EMEITS
(IDA SHARE IN PARENTNESESI
Procurenot  lethods
Number     Principal                ...............-..                       ..                            Tatal
of      Responsible                                      Force       Local                            Value of
Project Category/Eleuent                          Packages   Agency/Dept.              ICb           LC6     Account    Shopping       Other        N/A   Procurnemnt
Civil Noris
Roads and drainaqe                                  3           AORU             10,476.3          0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   10,476.3
(8,32084)       (0.0)      ( 0. 0)      (0.0)      (0.0)       ( 0.0) (328.(.  )
Contractor periodic  aiintenance                    I           AORU                   0.0       405.3        0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0       405.3
( 0.0)    (328.3)      ( 0.0)       (0.0)       (0.0)      ( 0.0)   (321.3)
Minor workis - Central Business District           N.A.         AORU                   0.0         0.0      77113          0.0        0.0         0.0       771.3
( 0.0)      (0.0)   (539,9)         (0.0)      (0.0 )      ( 0.0)    (539.9)             N
Upgrading                                           I            NWH                   0.0    1,356.7        1".0         0.0         0.0         0.0    1,356.7
(0.0) (1,098.9)        (. 0)        (0.0)      (0.0 )      ( 0.0) ( 1,098.9)
Vehicles, road equipeent,spares, office,
teaching equipeent                                Sundry    YHl,ACC,AORU,NlG       3,363.1          0.0        0.0       258.0         0.0         0.0    3,621.1
(3,329.5)       (0.0)      (0.0)    (224.5)        (0.0)       ( 0.0) (3,553.9)
Materials, food incentives                         Sundry       ADRU,NFP             1,604.5         0.0         0.0         0.0      300.0         0.0    1,904.5
(1,444.0)       (0.0)      (0.0)        (0.0)      (0.0)       (0.0) (1,444.0)
Technical assistance, consultant services          Sundry   NHI,ACC,A0RU0ML6             0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    7,143.9         0.0    1,143.9
( 0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)        (0.0) (6,707.0)        ( 0.0) ( 6,1707.0)
Land acquisition and coopensation                    N.A.         hull                   0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0      649.4       649.4
(0.0)       (0.0)      (0.0)        (0.0)      (0.0)       (0.0)       (0.0)
TOTAL PROCUREMENT VALUES                                                      15,443.9    1,161.9        771.3       258.0    7,443.9        649.4   26,326.4
(13,101.5) (1,427.2)   (539.9)    (224.5) (6,707.0)             (0.0)(22,040.0)
*aau.        ugne.   .lz            ......  ,.us.             amuu    aauuuu* mu..... ... ....
NAPUR
February 1965



- 24 -
58.       The proposed credit will be disbursed during tht period
1985-92. Disbursements of the IDA credit proceeds vill be made against
100 percent of foreign exchange expenditure and 10 percent of local
expenditure (90 percent until December 31, 1986, see para 59 below) for
civil works; 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditure and 90 percent
of local expenditure for vehicles and equipment; 100 percent of foreign
exchange expenditure for road maintenance materials; 100 percent of
foreign and 90 percent of local expenditure for technical assistance,
contractual services, studies and training (15 percent of local expendi-
ture after December 31, 1986, in relation to road and drainage rehabili-
t..tion and maintenance). On this basis total disbursements are estimated
at US$10.3 million against civil works, US$3.6 million against vehicles
and equipment, US$6.7 million against technical assistance, contractual
services, studies and training, and US$1.4 million for road maintenance
materials.
59.       Up to US$2.0 million of IDA credit proceeds will be ,front-
loaded in the first two years of the project (until December 31, 1986) to
cover up to 90 percent of local expenditures in order to reduce the
burden of project counterpart financing on the Government's constrained
budget. A revolving fund will also be established to offset likely
delays in disbursements due to Goverument cash flow and budgetary proce-
dure problems. The fund will be in the form of a special account in a
commercial bank in Ghana or the UK and will be managed by TSC.
IDA credit proceeds in the amount of US$700,000 in US oollars will be
deposited in the special account. This amount, representing the equiva-
lent of approximately four months of total expenditures to be covered
from the revolving fund, should be sufficient to ensure an adequate cash
flow (Development Credit Agreement, Section 2.02 b).
60.       Approval of the terms of reference for the Central Business
District Study and of the works proposed by the study will be conditions
of disbursement. Disbursement will be made against statements of expen-
diture (SOE) for the following items: (a) contracts of less than
US$10,000 equivalent under all categories; (b) local training programs
approved by the Bank Group; and (c) force account civil works. Support-
ing documents will be retained in a central location and made available
for review by visiting Bank Group missions; separate accounts will be
established to cover withdrawals on the basis of SOEs. and these accounts
will be subject to special auditing requirements. The minimum size of
reimbursement applications under this project will be US$30,000
equivalent.
61.       Final design of the East Maamobi component and draft final
design and costing of the civil works of the road and drainage component
and of the first year's maintenance program will be completed prior to
Board presentation.
Cost Recovery and Affordability
62.       The main financial impact of reaching the project objective will
be to permit the city to sustain a maintenance program that can obviate
the need for costly future rebuilding of existing roads. The central



- 25-
governmet's contribution to these objectives will be in the form of
investment in the capital improvements covered in the proposed project,
that is, road rehabilitation and the infrastructure in East Muamobi. The
mnifcipality's contribution is in the form of ongoing maintenance of this
and other city infrastructure. Revenue mobilization efforts supported by
the project will focus on generating revenues to cover the operating
costs of an ongoing road maintenance program to be supported through this
project and those of a concurrent KfW/GTZ-financed solid waste and
sanitation project, including vehicle replacement reserves. As a result
of the property revaluation and expansion of the valuation list, the
agreed regular increases in property rates and fees and licenses, and the
agreed program of measures to improve collection performance. ACC reve-
nues are projected to reach ¢ 165 million annually in real terms (1984
cedis) by 1989, four times estimated 1984 revenues. This increase is
sufficient to cover the costs of these key services plus a modest level
of growth in other services. The upgrading of East Maamobi w1il also
lead to higher property taxes, due to the reclassification of the area in
view of its improved infrastructure. This increase is small in compari-
son to the overall citywide increase due to changes in rate levels and
revaluation, but still establishes the principle that areas where im-
provements are made should increase their contribution.
63.       Water supply costs in East Maamobi will be recovered through
tariffs and charges te residents opting for individual connections.
Charges for metered water were raisea from O 2.7 to ¢ 22 per 1,000
gallons as of Januarv 19M4, and proposals are in hand for a further
doubling of tariffs in early 1985 as part of the Water Corporation's
program to regain financial viability. The charges are set to cover
operating costs and minimum maintenance. Access to piped water at these
charges represents a substantial savings for most households who have
been spending about ¢ 250 per household per month for water (C 1 a
bucket). Road user charges, gasoline taxes and vehicle duties, taxes and
license fees, which normally contribute to the costs of road programs,
are quite low in Ghana and also require revision. The types and levels
of such charges and the broader issue of how to finance national
(non-urban) road construction and maintenance programs are being ad-
dressed in the Second Reconstruction Import Credit and the Fourth Highvay
Project.
64.         While sustaining these kinds of increases will require both a
firm commitment by the Council and some degree of economic recovery, they
are deemed affordable and reasonable. The total property tax bill in-
crease envisaged in these projections is better than six-fold in current
terms between 1984 and 1987, and more than doubles again by 1989 for a
total nominal increase of 15-fold over a five-year period (six- to
seven-fold in real terms). The increase in the business charges envis-
aged here is less steep but nonetheless substantial. However, the level
of property rates and charges is so low now that a doubling from 1984 to
1985 will result in easily affordable bills for all classes of property.
The vast majority of residential property bills currently average around
0 50 per house per year or less than one-tenth of iZ of estimated median
annual household income. The estimated average property tax bill in 1989
would represent about three-tenths of 1Z of estimated 1989 median
household income. The increases proposed over the next five years are



- 26 -
also in line with the Bank's medium-term objective for overall resource
mobilization in Ghana, to double the current ratio of revenues to GDP
from about 8% to about 16x. Should general economic stagnation or
consumer resistance to property and business taxes cause actual collec-
tions to fall short of these levels, Government subvention for road
mintenance may need to be sought, services curtailed, or service-related
charges introduced.
Economic Benefits and Poverty Impact
65.       Benefits have been calculated for the road and drainage reha-
bilitation and maintenance component which represents 74 percent of
project base costs. The main economic benefits are:
(a) shorter routings for port traffic around Accra due to the
completion of the Motorway/Bypass;
(b) improved running surface on 17.5 km of rehabilitated major
trunk roads; and
(c) improved running surfaced on the 918 km urban road network
due to periodic and routine maintenance introduced by the
project.
Cost-benefit calculations yield economic rates of return (ERR) ranging
from 58 percent to 125 percent on the five road sections being completed
or rehabilitated. The ERR for a consolidated net benefit stream for the
five sections is 83 percent. Economic rates of return for the periodic
and routine maintenance program range from 30 percent to 46 percent
(consolidated ERR for maintenance, 39 percent). The combined ERR for the
road component as a whole is 71 percent. Incorporating the economic
costs of all other project components into the analysis but vith no
additional benefits yields a combined ERR of 62 percent.
66.      The upgrading of the East Maamobi site, which amounts to about
10 percent of total project cost, will dramatically improve sanitation
and accessibility in this area. More importantly, it will provide
practical experience to the Technical Services Center team in carrying
out this kind of scheme, to which Government has long been committed but
has lacked a workable approach. Property sale information in the area of
the project and in neighboring areas with better services indicates a
five-fold difference in market sales value for similar building types and
lot sizes. The occurrence of this kind of one-time increase in property
values within a year of the completion of upgrading works would be
associated with an economic rate of return of over 500 percent. Even a
modest increase in property values would be associated with high economic
returns. Because of rent control and the artificially low level of
present enforced rents, most property owners are not expected to invest
in building improvements, and renters would not be expected to suffer
from rent increases or displacement. The primary justification for this
component, however, is that it demonstrates a low-cost, workable approach
to upgrading other densely settled, underserviced areas in Accra.



- 27 -
67.       A comparison of a 1984 urban poverty threshold of US$112 per
capita per year, calculated according to standard Bank methodology with
1984 survey data from East Mamobi, implies that about 25 percent of
residents fall below the poverty threshold. However, evidence from this
survey and findings of the Bank's recent economic mission indicate that
two-thirds to 100 percent of project area residents and 50-90 percent of
Accra's residents have been consuming nutritionally substandard diets,
despite use of savings and interfamily transfers to supplement monetary
earnings and allocation of 85 percent of expenditures to food purchases.
Even with recent food price decreases due to the first good rains in
several years, it is clear that economic hardship has been particularly
widespread for a prolonged period of time and that, given the unusual
circumstances, a large proportion of residents must be considered poor
for some time to come. If the poverty threshold in Accra is conserva-
tively taken to be around the 50 percent income percentile, then about
half of project beneficiaries would fall below the threshold, given that
90 percent of the project is expected to benefit all residents equally
and the remaining 10 percent East Maamobi residents.
Risks
68.       The risks involved in the project are (a) that ACC will not be
able to sustain sufficient political backing to approve and collect the
major increases in rates required to continue funding improved road
maintenance and refuse disposal; (b) that project implementation will
suffer due to the difficulty of attracting and keeping qualified Ghanaian
staff; and (c) that the Government may not be able to finance its share
of project costs. Concerning the ACC rate increases, major increases
for 1985 have already became effective and an annual review process was
agreed at negotiations to assure continuing sufficient increases. The
rehabilitation of roads with assistance from this prcject and the im-
provements in refuse collection through bilateral aid from KfW/GTZ will
provide ACC with important political capital with which to convince
ratepayers that ACC can deliver higher levels of service. A sustained
public enlightenment campaign, which is also receiving support through
the project, has been designed to convey this message to city residents.
The shortage of qualified personnel is a risk affecting virtually all
undertakings in Ghana due to chronic national "brain drain". This
shortage will ease as economic conditions improve and expatriate
Ghanaians return.  To ensure that the Government makes available funds to
finance the project, a revolving fund for the counterpart contribution
will be established and funded on a monthly basis. Also, the project is
part of the Government's core investment program and will receive priori-
ty in capital investment allocations. Finally, the Government's counter-
part contribution represents a minor share of total projected capital
expenditure.



- 28 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMTS AND AUTHORnT
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Ghana and IDA, the draft Project Agreements between IDA and the Ghana
Highway Authority, and between IDA and the Accra City Council, as well as
the recommendations of the Comittee, provided for in Article V, Section
l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
70.       Special features of the draft Development Credit and Project
Agreements are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex
III to this report. The conditions of Credit Effectiveness are:
(i) the installation of an appropriate accounting svstem by
TSC (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01) and
(ii) the opening of a Special Account (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 2.02 b).
71.       I an satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 27, 1985



AMIE I
-29                                          Page I of 5
TA*LF  3A                                       mm I
CAUI                  - SOCL DWATMS DTA 
HOS                   (NMS UNCUT hSTDIHAI) !
i96e      ire,Qfb    UNUNCUTCOR L        -   AnnA         HIDsLMc
1STDIATIab      soU0m 0o SAHAA     ARCL S. OF SARI
S TIDA  sq. S)
TOTAL                             23B.5    238.5       238.5
AaIOIUAlLS                         6Z.3     61.4       62.2
GM  S CA?fl CURS)                    170.0    230.0      360.0             249.1                  1l11.9
(KIWGRAIS or OIL EQUaLU)           72.0   1U0.0        161.0             62.6                   529.0
fOOL DMA  WTL  S UAXMS
POPnLATo  tl'-TEA (THOUSANDS)    6304.0   86L4.0    12169.0
URBAN POPUIATIO   a OF TOTAL)     23.3     29.1       37.3              1.2                    -29.7
POPUIATIGN PRZE CrTI0S
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (HILL)                        24.2
STATIONARY FOPULATON (MCL)                            83.5
POPULATION ZCIERUR                                     2.0
POPUATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Rl.                      28.5      3e.L       49.6             32.5                    55.6
PER SQ. Di. AIL. LAUD            109.3    16O.Z      190.Z            119.2                   111.5
POPULATION ACE STUMCURE CZ)
0-14 IRS                         44.5     65.6       47.0             45.6                    45.4
15-64 RSt                        52.9      51.6       50.8             51.5                    51.7
65 ASD ABOVE                      2.6       2.7        2.7              2.9                     2.9
PPULTION CRWM3 RATE (r)
TOTAL                              4.4      Z.4        2.9              2.6                     2.8
URBAN                             9.2       4.6        5.0              6.2                     5.2
CaUDrs BIRTH RATE (    TSIS)       50.2      50.2       49.3             48.6                    47.0
CRtDE DEATH RATE (PER TOM)         20.3      16.8       13.0             17.7                    15.2
CROSS REPROODUCTION RAE             3.4      3.4         3.3              3.2                     3.2
FAVlLY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANIUAL (TIOUS)           .,      8.3 .     33.5 Ic
USERS a: OF nanMw U )               ..      ..        10.0 7
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. MER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      93.0    101.0       72.0              85.3                    91.6
PER CAPITA suPPLY or
CALORES CZ OF YEQUIRElEtTS)      92.0      97.0      68.0              36.4                    98.2
ROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0      51.0       44.0             49.9                    56.7
OF YlICH ANDIAL AND PULSE       13.0     17.0       15.0 IC          ls.3                    17.0
aInDD (AGES 1-4) DEATR RATE        27.0     21.0        15.0             23.8                    13.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRH (YEARS)       44.6     49.9        54.3             48.4                    51.7
[NFWAT RT. RATE (PER THOCS)       132.0    107.0       86.0             117.5                   102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WMAt (2POP)
TOTAL                                      35.0       35.0 Ia          21.8                    35.6
URBA                               ,,      36.0       86.0 7e          61.5                    54.1
RURAL                              ,,      14.0       14.0 7           14.2                    27.3
ACCESS TO RXCRETA DISPOSAL
(: OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ,.      55.0       56.0 Ie          32.0
URBAN                              ..      92.0       95.0 7           69.2
RURAL                              ..      40.0       40.0 Te          24.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        21600.0  12910.0 /b  7630.0 Id        27477.8                 11948.3
POP. PEt NURSIN  PERSON          5430.0 if 1070.0 7Wr   78O.0 7;       3396.2                  2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1290.0    760.0      660.04          1039.0                   936.9
ORB"                            300.0 /f 770.0       830.0 Th         395.2                   366.7
RURAL                          47590.0 7F 890.0      730.0 7Tc       3094.0                  4012.1
AD11SSION0 PER HOSPIrAL RED          ..       ..         ..                .
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..      4.7
URBN                               ..        .,
RURAL                              ..       ...                           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROON
TOTAL
URAN,                                        ... ..                    ..
RURAL                              ..       ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (S OF IELLNGS)
TOTAL
URA                                ..       ..
RURAL                              ..        ..         .                 ..



30-                                          ANNEX I
-~~~~                            P~~a~ge  2 ~of 5
T AS LE  34                                      PAGE 2
GHANA - ~~SOCIAL INDICAT0OB MUT sEEK
GHANA                      RKFEEENU NcE MMUV  (UZIGITE  AVERAGES) /a
NDUT                    (NMS RECENT EBTDIATB) l
197& .  197Ob                 LW INCOME AFRXCA        NIBs 4605
zSTh6A2zL~   SO=T 07 SAMA"       AFRIC  S. OF SAMAl
ADJUSTE ENROLIMNEN RATIOS
PUDIANY   TOMA                     36.0     6.          69. Id            69.2                     91.0
hAL                      52.00   7"3.0       77.007             7S.S                    go:.5
FEMALE                  25.0      54.0       M0O Z             57.6                     73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    5s.a    14.:0       36.0 /d           13.1                    17.4
MALE                     9.       21.1U      44.0 7i_          17.6                     23.7
FEAL.E                   3.0       6.0       27.0 7i-           8.3                     14.8
VOCD.TXOUAL Cl oF sEaCOnDR)          12.6     23.3         3.5I              7.2                      5.3
PUPEL-TEAaIER ATIO
PRIMARY                            31.0     3.          270               46.1                     38.6
SECONDARY                ~~~~~~~~~16:.0     1,7.0  I9:00j        25.9                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE CZ)              27.0 a   30.2          ..44.3                                   35.6
FASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP          3.0       4.6        6.8 /c             3.6                    20.7
RADIO RECEIVERSITNOMUSD POP          42.7     81.6       162.6              41.9                   100.8
TV RECEIV`RSITKOUSAND MOP            0.1 1k   1.9          5.0               2.0                     16.5
NEUPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCflATION
FIE ThOUMAND POPUIATIOV            30.0     35.1        30.5               5.4                     17.2
CINMA ANNUAL ATIENDANCECAPITA         1.6      2.2        0.4                1.4                     0.3
LANRM PUEC
TOTAL LABO FORCE (T300S)           2919.0   3421.0      4530.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   42.6     42.1        41.1              36.5                     33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              64.0     58.0        53.0              77.4                     57.1
InDosTRY (PERCNT)                  14.0     17.0        20.0               9.8                    17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENTr)
TOTALL                             42.9     39.7        37.2              41.0                     36.3
HAL                                50.0     46.6        44.0              52.1                     47.6
FEMALE                             36.0     33.0        30.5              30.2                     25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.1      L.2         1.3               1.2                      1.4
INC DISTREIRTIA
PERCENTr OF PRIVATE INCM
RECEVED BY
KIGEST 510Of ODSENDLDS 
HIGHEST 201 OF OSEROLDS
LOVES? 20 0F HOUSEHOLDS
LOVES? 40107 Of OSENOLDS 
ESTISArED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOIE
LEVErL CUSS PER CAPITA)
tItRAN                               ..       ..       307.0 A           166.3                    525.3
RURALZ                               .0                150.0              90.8                    249.0
ESTINArED RELATIV POVERTY INCOME
LMWML tub* rta eazeL..j
URBSAN                               ..       .        156.0 /d          107.7                    477.4
RURAL                                                   30.0  6. 1.0      65.0                    186.0
ESTIMA tED POP. SELW1 ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCaME LEVEL (E)
URBAN                              31.0                                   34.7
RURAL                              1.       1.          1.                65.4
NOT AAILALtE
NOT APPLICABLE
/a   he grm39 averaes for each indieator are, population-Vsighted arithmatic means. Coverase of countrima anong the
Indicators dependa on availablity of data and is not uaiform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted. 'Data for 1960- refer to any year betwa.. 1959 and 1961; -Data for 197V betusem 1969 &and
1971; and data for -ost Recent Estiasts beten 1980 and 1982.
Ic 1977; Id 1979: Ia 1975; If 1962; IL 1978; Ah Registered, not all practicing In the country; /I Public
educationm only; 11 Age 6 and over; Ak 1964.
JUNE. 1984



- 31--                                                               ANNEX 
or 2::l.::  In=                                                       Page 3I01f 5
003.0 OOo0..0  oo040  .30. 11l.oto   1    o33 p, I141  it                .0.Sl.          20. -0001. 0. 4-0 T.  do0....EOtoto -.o.io-ootor
_VIoool.3 10 O.oo.g.. 4d._. _10. .ooo.. 0  po.3i.oo.IiM. soloOt,-   o.                  obl0o010                 .3    00111001.01 03
4101..   t.10  0    i03~.-  3300 00. .0.10.  no.011.0         - 1   CZ) i0.00. 4.04.-   10.f .1.IltOity   -4.5050I. 2-     0.3I0h. 40.v 10 .01
33000 i.0.oo ....4- ...0..I                                               .-   ~s a".  .  mai~tl.    00-t d- 100050  4.1   33o o.0  .1  l00-OO.
-     -9-i.$o.ob    gy-.3' 3.o .. .     -45.. P0...;  440                    olo2s  -N    3 50- too -% -.0r 0            -1-0.4'101  101.1.-  . 
29300.43034000.   _                                                            L0..3Oi1       0v Z     0..0    00i01.0  1t3.4  y0     .1 000130
300   4 06 400                                                                               o..r4ost0.4 - lO   -1&0..  0 00 -3   p.I 0   1.00.
cm  Z.0 t5ml (003-7CW  -o  -L.'        o.o   tot.   fo.t P,ico.                            tool  t.0   I pb.OUo -4 Pfto.0  goro  -d o....1304 OoolI.  -4
IV40. 1470. W0 31412 4....                                                               by -o 3.-.  -   b,.iLt..  O.00hA00o1  01-01410  -tt p.Il o1          d.
-0  -t  -  1.03.40. 0.-0  b1k1.   .0..  -I."l  OSik 0.4
10.1'?00000.11   W"00?  - 00-.1 bpo.o.oto   ot oo..oto.                               O si -Z.-11   .0  f..o      v .1.. 1.4 by * O00.1o1  (M.  by I 04101
3470. 0  1103 dot..    ~~~107i~ "4£S S£jk   -. 0001 wbel .11                                                                                    -a0o  ~ 4.o..
0.        ~o001 Po0.l.sbo. 004. .0   itO ftoco                      . 113 3-   14. 330 .4t0 3003                 04301        sg"    Wr-d.     -a
4000.                                                                                 * I"    d.-  ft w       "2909 4    1 -..101.  Io   .1 .0.- W10.0  00
t04  ; 310. 370.      141 Co..                                          o. 000134too.0.0.0501 OSul0
30.                                                  so o.I -Z o    m0000   01000.. ms m             -0   4  t.v - o~     0
-.0 -M-,IV. 47.      1M. - .           3000  0  .000  3                         1  p..0t            .1   03.         t          .  -.
bel  io       001  010. -.MLf  --  130 OMIooL--& .0lI.% gt 7. 0.1           ~          t3.L4.3000   1.101        13   0tOO-00.
Th.0. 1. 001.0  .0 c1."tlit  .0. .1.. 0.oo  lO  I0.-..I0.. t.                                     0   t11       l    lt003
Z-10.01 4  110 10...  1000t   ....  to1   ..1-1.       WA4 30o  041               0.1
11003011001. 3. .0~.01  = J=.L.2.  0 01000   0ol.000003.o .                                         0 4111.00 lt0- .- o1 t010.0  .4001 
0d ~t  .5.4.00  1.0. 14 14   100.1I  30  0ot  03101. It  010  .000.    0.010. 0. -ft1.0.                                                 - o0  Res 34.0
01. .41.00004000.0l10   1  0 000050110.9- .            300  11                       lo.10    30. 1. - 0133. .0   0400. - (et"1 ~0.1.; 0.04
U0."  003.0..4ot1.P01 1.00331.0 000to ool                    3.01.                    .4.000.  rbt10 - ..o.  000  o...o1    .00.4  000   0.0.1.
00.300010.0 -  10 0-.- 304.0  101g ..IIt  (00.0 0    I-L.0                         p0040pt5.0-OI  0 1.00So.t   01.     1.00
50. .-..1.  OOoc  t003- %kw          0031g..0o     .03. %   k. 100  apw o..ool _.001.4.4.    i 
.0-01.4  10.0 4010M.                                                                 003."0 .    00M14;--:I1  - U-".0   f00000     10101  C.00 -.d1W3..4t-)
Oo.301.  .o!.                                                                     00.00OOt.10  003C-010    I0s0 -t 1..00   0 
lo  0.0   o.LL0.3000 5w.0- I10. 014.10 o.                                           W" 1I0t0530    110000  00   1    A00tt0  0404 00000.        l _~r-.
(m10, 3403. 1400 004 30v- 4000.
0     C- 1.0. 1.Lon- 10b.00    0231-.2. ('3-30 ..n3. .003-o.  t301.            131030
C.o." IMLIA    330.  30.03                 blob.                                        0.1.0."0--  4 1000. 00- 030   .0;.oI6.0.0.0.00 
S                                                             I-103.0101  .  401.0   404  01000   0.1.1  30 ltOlo         010       TV1  .0 .0000.  0401.
001003110  00. 0.  0 it0 WOlo                             0-010  0.110                                          ""o..0
10000.30y -00       "I,0000.4 s-  3.1 40000 p.ot 1.a0 041007 = 2200111 (.00 330   0000300 0.    0015..  ..000..
9.0010010.0 3060. 1000. 0  1002 4010.                            0000101 p~P. .ot1.-o   .-I -0  3-00103.  00.1 1          '7.04  0Ooo..
000 0o004ooI.0O.3o   &ooow .00.0.140.ol.   001 0.011               3  50100   0r 1t 10000 10 001001.011.1     .000    1         100
0.01.30.010    ol.=t0000.0p.00000110300100330  01030    0010  -0                                                                             0  01
lOlIUy  .00010.11  10.000  5.060  016  .  40. 330  0005010.0140110001  13000  000.0.                 l4.3- 00.1.I- .
102                                                                                oOl00 405001.1?  010.40   0001-0    13 050.
100  10010   000.. 10. :1-300.0040  . 30.    =0.0   00..                           .0   01~0.1  400   10.   01000
.0010-00.  4.1...00.01   O  o Ul  103  plV           g10000    000   r1030010     0.       0    0.
0AI0610I..                                                                             10000  004  0f 41n00.113.4101020.I0-4a0t" 01.0.4
1-ff                                                                                            C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.011.  2   00.01010.  10 F-00.  totIl.  --9.
3001-L0104yoC01.01 M S30  '                 -.0 .110-3.40..  ot010                      .301...) - 1.103  00 A00  000000.10                        001110
.0.10001000 05 00001-             03 .-.dt0000530.       - .01.00  0    0.4           02030   30.1100-3 -  F0.  0."0  50 1.0013         oli  q 114.1010131 0304
1040.0  10..10 00 00 00100 00 013013. 0  000   00100  00                             1.4.000-  -01.    - 100. 1000  300.0.000001.                 0101
014- -d.10   oo1op0.0  0100.- 0.3401. 3.300.% 11.r 0   06.                                3143tb             Al4.0..It                            fb;  "       W
401d -                                                                                OO01-. 0p0 (010P03    1001.-030.00IVA.              - 11d1000.0.0
--W.  "M=103  M1,Io.01.30                 bo4ot        Cv1.o0 to..- M.0..140..  3ow                     43 4.. 50.        01.F-"     0m.~  U1W   00001 0 ~1.10:
o1.0000. 0          3000.  0.3 703-.-  0.- 10  oolI 1.0  04.1100. 114   . -d AIS da                                   Tof 10 000100 -4  1 t     O  30.01."P~I   0
joOtOl7.. 04  00 00p.0 -001 l. I- 10.-0.3     -&-I 010.0-0. . 3100             0 ",,&-.0 000 010.001-Wl.a
00110        00  001401t.113 0.l100505 1o-.001o0. 0.4p A.0100                        00006 100001.1                         04)
____________ "_-_-___-______ __________                                                                 0.     000                     #- L 0 1 0 )    0 . "    by    1.10 00 
0.110.11   0. 01 0  " '00 3 4 1 010  01  00   tO .  O dO   00.0 . 0000   00 11     __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     __  -____ -________________
"-10   oo P_-I.003 =   -ow  001   01 -001 p.,-1.10.    .10h                           ..    .I       =     d1                -l
01   00. 00010Ot  P00.0  1.0 30P.0.4-. o.1o4 07 MAN1  001er                     .014 0. 300`0000104  0100 4        -.t.001    -05..   Vy
4000.                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-1.104.050.%%- a .'  1      .    -
0134 (.1.. 1-03 100001001. 1.01 101.00040 - 001o1 000. p.1 1000 1.tOt 300¶40 0.3.011.1.001. 13000 301.1 00 000¶0011o)  .001- 0t0.`-' 
U0000= 0 140. 310011 4000.                     `                                        00.1.1-
1.0000 000111 00. 10000.000)  400.0 4000.001000.   0
0000000  0010 -p 000000-0 -1 b0.111. -  0.3.d0. -         0 -.10 F
00    1010 1101  .00.01            -Id 1.01010  ...002 t0,  00oI                                                      1501o  oloo 4 f              11..
tow0 do    swlwi7  t10341 00.0104 0001..00  01.14
00.001     -C33010000   1000 1000010. 0011.0-1.  5000-
00000Ot000.01000 00 0              -300 -1  - e V= .1 .0. .40d 0



-32-                                  I
Page 4 of 5
-         .hCA~
N P    CM  IAM   I 1983: 1S13201/
Gi8 N,.ATIA  PBC    a 1983 1/                                                 AETAL RAE OF= M
(2 cautum Priem)             I
C        HlU.                              1 978-63
P a8t YAet PrIs                           189,73D             10.0                    -2.41
Cam"Dss osi  Iniit                          7,758              4.1                   -14.39
Gzm N      1atiwi Savft                       638               0.3                  -20.33
rrit Accmt kIM                              7,120              3.8                      -
ESiportof Gxods, Mrs                       11,260              5.9                    -6.48
qoet of GOOds. W1S                         17,020              9.0                    -9.51
Un1UT AND IAKX FE
oatput in 1983                        tabor Force, 1983
Gnus Ha.                                        S _
liaa1ture                                  101,886               53.1            2.58        57.2
bnmczy                                      13,372               7.0            0.691        15.3
Sevim                                       76,671              39.9             1.242      27.5
Total                                      191,931              100.0           4.517       100.0
Ce-tm GmrE
Cadis HUl.    Z of CDP In 1982    C4lis Ml.  -  Of x i  in 1983
Total Ruom     ad Grats            5,253.2            5.8           10,241.0           5.4
Total. Bi=tuze an Net L lirU       9,220.1           10.2           15,177.5           8.0
Ovea: l Deficit (-)               -3,966.9           -4.4           -.936.5           -2.6
MM, CEDr SD PRCES
1977     1978     1979      1980     1961     1982      1983
tmya adQ t     yi-ecs              3.01      5,131    5,944    7,951    12,031   14,839   22,0f
DBm  Credit to  oblic Sectr        3,203    5,636    6,536    8,485   14,014   17,144   22,393
11d Ccedit to Private Sector         560       739      799      943    1,345    1,562    2,82
(Pct pSW Of TMN %AiMer)
YAW2 ydQm&-uyanZof MP               27.3      24.4     21.1      19.4     15.7     17.6      11.J
Geural Price IMw (1977-100)        100.0    173.1    267.3    401.2    868.6   1062.4       23.7
y Staff Etintu.
arcs 1961



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANC OF PAIM11                                       ISIAWISE E            (AVA  1979-1983)
1982     1983 1/
(U$ milli                                       US$ SiUoa
L    Irade Balance                    -24     -137           Ccoax  Bemis & Products     528.6       69.5
Bxpor  f.o.b.                 607      440           Gold                         135.3      17.8
lmports c.i.f.                631      577           Resldbal Oil                 31.5        4.1
Tlizer                       28.7        3.8
Invistiles (Net)               -168     -219           Electriclty                   9.9        1.3
Services                     -167     -233           ianganese                     8.1        1.1
Transfers                      -1        14          Diimod                        7.3        1.0
All Otier Gwods              10.7        1.4
Carrent Pbaice2                -192      -356
Capital kccsmts                                       Total                       760.1      100.0
Gzamts                         84        79
OEffical Capital (Net)        113        37          EDKA      OT, DBHt   1983
Private Capital (Net)          -5        12
Arrears PaYnmtts               35       -34                                               USS  il.
Overall  aance 2/                27      -243          Total  Oxstmxding and
Disbursed MELT                     1,095.1
Grows Interratimonml                                   Total Oztstmding and
Reserves (Eki of Period)      223       128            Disbxwsed inc. shart-tezIn         1,370.9
DEMT avI  RAI  FMR83 3/                  Z
February 1973 - June 18, 1978                          Total CbtstanlIqg and
US$1 - 01.15                                    Disbursed MlLT                        23.5
Since Aug. 26, 1978,  US$1  - C 2.75
Since April 21, 1983, US$1  - C24.692
Since Oct. 10, 1983,  US$1  - g30.00                    MM/,h LIE          (D ecember 31, 1984)
Since Mrch 25, 1984, US$1  - 035.00
since Aagust 25, 1984, US$1  - 08.50                                               I__         IDA
stwading & Disbursed        125.39  210.1k
Uodisbursed                    8.39  194.37
stanin, incl.
UzKisbursed               133.78  404.52
I/ Provisiosal estimtes subject to cimuge.
Z/  Inud  errors and osioos.
3/ As % of exports of goods and non-factor services.
December 1984



- 34 -
THE Ma    OF lBX GM  Ma1     3N MM  1/
SIAm4J cF   I NS um        DA aKf  (As of Decmbwer 31, 1984)
rTn or                                                        AhI t $ )Mflim)
Credit   Pial                                                -1e  Cmlltim-
NuIi,er   Year     Borrower               Pmik IA 2/ Umliabursd
Eight   o andi thirtese crdits fully did3used                146.4 107.4
1122-01  1975     Past & Teleco-
1MILCatims        Teleommuzdcations       23.0            7.3
1291-1 3/1976     Repxble of Qtu   Upper Pegi Ag4Dv.          21.0           1.1
90130  1979       Rpblic of Qwia  Second NIB                       19.0     5.1
1009-H  1980      Rpublic of Qwia  Volta Reirn Ag.Dev.              29.5    2f.9
1029-40  1980      RPublic of  m      Third  9r                     25.0     4.6
1170-0   I8        Rqxbli  of Ghmna  Raibuy                         29.0    15.2 4/
1342-01  1983     ReptblIc of cana  Water supply                    13.0     8.3 4/
1327-01  1983     Rept6lir of QGsm   Recxwtnm±ii CIMAD               9.3     8.44/
1373-0   1983     Rptblie of Qian   Enery Project                   31.0     9.1 41
1393-01  1983      Republic of       Itaa   e I xr nrunctian Import Cr.  40.0    10.9 4/
1435-G0  1984     Republic of aQnm   ERport  1elubalIstIw           40.1    33.8 4/
F009-0   1984      Republic of Gin    qiport l l a tatid            35.9    31.6
1436-    1984     Pepblc of Q2an   Eqport Rebabi
ech-nical Assstmde          17.1    14.3 4/
1446-01  1984     Republic of Ghana  Petzrole Reftaezy Rdihb.
and Technical Assist  ee      6.9     5.8 4/
1498-G1  1984     Repubhlc of Qh2m    Secondl Ol Palm               25.0    22.2 4/
Total                                     190.4 408.2  202.8
of %ihd bas been paid                      56.6   3.7
Total. ncw cutstamdirg                     :33.8 404.5
Amount sold                 0.4
of vIdh has been repaid    0.4             0.0   0.0
Total maw held by Bank & IDA               M33.8 404.5
Total urndsbursed                           8.4 194.4  202.8
1/  The statu  of the project listed in thi part is describd In a separate tepor   all
Bak/ ID&-finaiced projeet iDn emeitm, hich is updated bdice yearly and cirwiated
to the Eccutive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/  PrIr to emWd        adjustments.
3/  Interest subsy find (Cdrd Widow).
/  Cal(lated at the ebaqge rate applicable n December 31, 1984.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
GHANA
ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
The Association has been worciag on de_fning an urban project in Ghana
since August, I980. However, it was frequently interrupted by
uncertainties in the general policy environment. 'With the introduotion nf
the economic recovery program in April 1983. vork on the project commenced
agaiu in November 1983 and the project concept was greatly modifi.I to
accord with the priorities of the economic recovery program.
(a) Time taken to prepare project:           7 months
Cb) Project prepared by:                     Wia/IDA
Cc) Date of first Bank mission to consider
the project:                            November 1983
Cd) Date of Appraisal Mission:               Kay 1984
Ce) Date of completion of negotiations       February 1985
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:           July 1985
Section II:  -Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) A detailed program of implementation for all components of the
project has been agreed with the Government (paras. 50, 51, 52).
Cb)  GRA to transfer ADRU to ACC according to a timetable acceptable
to IDA (para. 50).
(c)  Conditions of effectiveness are
(i) TSC shall have installed an appropriate accounting system
acceptable to the Association (para. 49);
(ii) Borrower shall furnish evidence to the Association of the
opening of the Special Account (para. 59).



/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
-   -   -     -   -     -   -     -   -     -   -  



IBRD I
-                  _.  I
-1--T _
TV, W
=\~~~~~~~~C
ae~~~~ I
N                                                                                         - -RADS-  - PROJf. 0PR N  ARE
I N N .~~~~ Nbo Col  s~ NOUiO  DENllY
_  New  Glon             z      Medium 150 - 350}~~~~~~~~~G 0~
'N. ~  ~      ~
N,~~
NN
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ N
N~~~~~~~N
RhOAUhS-                                    PRJC  UPGRDIN  AREAAR
2 MltES ExkN~~Areril                                                MA-INTERNATNCYARD  AONDARIEPOS
KILOAPEMRS ~ ~      PAEMN  DISTRESS                                Inlstil9 omeca
ThrLgoct                         IT BUNAR
2 ANES  913M   derti                                     NWRAINLBUDRE
E=FMC3    AoderaN
N~~~~~~DCME  "



ACCRA GIRLS        I
a  <  >>s SECONDARY SCHO
-145 -
111                                 A~~~~~
- ~~~~~~~~7
2  .3  E ACCPA  DISTI
o /         10  METE-es
0 _  _ 200 300 400 SW FEET



IBRD 105Y
MAUWfTAMA
M AL I   / IGE R
ACCRA\ G                                                              rIEM
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    'to     \'
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1
:5
'5- .-8to
-==/.-   -N                   \
,A,/
*L~~~~~~~~'~~                     t_       \                                      .
sv--                                          ~~~~~~GHANA
_ g -    -r--                    ~~~ACCRA DISTRICT REHABILITATION PROJECT
-e7/;Z-    j;W_-.,, ,s, g,,. ,,EAST MAAMlOBI UPGRADING AREA
PAVED ROADS
> . R  -  .   -                                 PAVED FOOTPATHS
MWATER SUPPLY
200 mm DIAMETER MAIN PIPES
>  s  --    10W mm DlAMETER DISTRIBUTOR PIPES
75 mm DIAMETER DISTRIBUTOR PIPES
PUBLIC LATRINES
ELECTRICITY NETWORK
5-                              @LOW TENSION OVERHEAD LINES
A-'~-~ ~-                                                    A   REFUSE CONTAINERS
HIGHWAYS
- RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
/      50    100    150 MRS                      CONTOURS IN METERS
O   100  2W  300   4D  50F                 -  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Th- -,fiouri-   k reo.rr m  v1    s   nd -wb.
sebecct to m.w -"odfcahon dung fol deuqn-
DECEMBER 1984






