OFFICIAL
0"CUW1T 'CREDIT NUMBER 1564 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Accra District Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      Xo.k Oo%           , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1564 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1985, between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) Part A (1) of the Project will be carried out by the
Ghana Highway Authority with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
Ghana Highway Authority part of the proceeds of the Credit as
provided in this Agreement;
(C) Part B (2) of the Project will be carried out by the
Accra City Council with the Borrower's assistanc? and, as part oif
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Accra
City Council part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Association
and, respectively, the Ghana Highway Authority and the Accra City
Council;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "ACC" means Accra City Council;
(b) "ACC Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement of
even date with the Development Credit Agreement between the
Association and ACC;
(c) "ADRU" means Accra District Roads Unit;
(d) "Cedi" means the currency of the Borrower;
(e) "GHA" means Ghana Highway Authority;
(f) "GHA Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement of
even date with the Development Credit Agreement between the
Association and GRA;
(g) "GIMPA" means Ghana Institute of Management and Public
Administration;
(h) "LGTS" means Local Government Training School;
(i) "MFEP" means Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning;
(j) "MLG" means Ministry of Local Government;
(k) "MRH" means Ministry of Roads and Highways;
(1) "MWH" means Ministry of Works and Housing;
(m) "TSC" means Technical Services Center, a unit of MWH;
(n) "WFP" means World Food Program;
(o) "Project Preparation Advances" means the aggregate of
the project preparation advance granted by the Association to the
Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 31,
1984 and December 4, 1984 between the Borrower and the
Association, the project preparation advance granted by the
Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters
dated January 13, 1984 and May 2, 1984 between the Borrower and
the Association, and the project preparation advance granted by
the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated
May 21, 1976 and June 1, 1976 between the Borrower and the
Association; and


﻿-3-
(p) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (t) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 1I
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-two million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 22,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreemen.t between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself and the Bank the amounts required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount
of   the  Project   Preparation   Advances  shall   thereupon  be
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1995, and ending November 15,
2034. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2004, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A (2) of the


﻿-5-
Project through TSC, Part B (1) of the Project through MLG, and
coordinate and administer all Parts of the Project through TSC,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and urban
planning practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause ACC and GRA to perform in accordance with
the provisions of, respectively, the ACC Project Agreement and
the GHA Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable ACC and GHA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Part A (1) and Part B (2) of the Project available
to GHA and ACC, respectively, on a grant basis.
(d) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs
(a) and (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by Agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Parts A (2) and B (1) of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts A (1) and B (2) of the Project shall be carried
out by GHA and ACC, respectively, pursuant to Section 2.03 of,
respectively, the GHA Project Agreement and the ACC Project
Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the generality of the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
not later than one month before the start of each calendar
quarter: (i) prepare and submit for approval by the Association
in respect of that quarter a work program together with an
estimate of the Borrower's expenditures on the Project; and (ii)
furnish to ADRU, GHA, ACC and all other departments and agencies
of the Borrower involved in the Project an amount in Cedis which
together with the Cedi resources then available to each such
department or agency will enable it to meet its estimated
expenditures on the Project during such quarter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through MRH and MLG, shall
cause GHA and ACC to cooperate in directing the operations of
ADRU and to take all steps necessary to enable the transfer of
ADRU from GHA to ACC by December 31, 1987, at the latest, in a
manner satisfactory to the Association. The Borrower, in
cooperation with GHA and ACC, shall review annually with the
Association the progress made toward strengthening ADRU and its
transfer to ACC.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, of TSC and MLG in respect
of Parts A (2) and B (1), respectively, of the Project.
(b) The Borrower, through TSC, shall maintain consolidated
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of GHA, ACC
and of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(c) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which


﻿withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enaIe the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) have the consolidated accounts
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association within four months
after each fiscal year a copy of the unaudited consolidated
accounts and, as soon as available, but in any case not later
than eight months after the end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request, including
quarterly reports on the progress of the Project.
Section 4.02. the Borrower, shall not later than four weeks
after the end of each calendar quarter, furnish to the Associa-
tion with respect to such quarter, a report on the progress of
the Project, broken down by the several Parts thereof as set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, together with a statement
of expenditures pertaining thereto.
Section 4.03. In pursuance of Section 3.01 of this Agreement
and without limitation upon any of its other obligations under
this Agreement, the Borrower shall make sufficient foreign ex-
change available in a timely manner for the purchase of equipment
and vehicles required by ACC to replace equipment and vehicles
needed for its financial management and its roads and drainage
maintenance and solid waste management programs at the end of
their useful life.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿-8-
(a) GHA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the GHA Project Agreement.
(b) ACC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the ACC Project Agieement.
(c) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date  of  the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
GHA or ACC, as the case may be, will be able to perform its
obligations under, respectively, the GHA Project Agreement or the
ACC Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of GHA or ACC or for the suspension of the operations of GHA
or ACC.
(e) ACC shall have failed to fund its road and drainage
maintenance and solid waste collection programs in an amount
acceptable to the Association and based on the results of the
annual review referred to in paragraph 3 of Section E of Sched-
ule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are speci-
fied:
(a) the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿-9-
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) TSC shall have installed an appropriate accounting
system acceptable to the Association for keeping consolidated
accounts for all components of the Project; and
(b) the Borrower shall have provided the Association with
evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been
opened.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the GHA Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by GHA, and is legally binding upon GHA in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the ACC Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by ACC, and is legally binding upon ACC in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (d)
and (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall cease and deter-
mine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on the date 15 years after the date of this Agree-
ment, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Provisional National Defence Council
Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
For the Borrower:
The Provisional National Defence
Council Secretary
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P. 0. Box M 40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:
ECONOMICOM
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Uni.ted States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
e, Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Works
(a) for Part A
(1) (a) of
the Project
(i) to Decem-        3,470,000        100% of foreign
ber 31,                          expenditures and
1986                             90% of local
expenditures
(ii) thereafter       2,250,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
10% of local
expenditures
(b) for Part A              610,000        100% of foreign
(1) (c) of the                        expenditures and
Project                               10% of local
expenditures
(c) for Part A (2)
of the Project
(i) to Decem-          720,000        100% of foreign
ber 31,                          expenditures and
1986                             90% of local
expenditures
(ii) thereafter         310,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
10% of local
expenditures


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(2) Vehicles, equipment,
spare parts, office
equipment and supplies,
including local dealer
preparation and installa-
tion of directly imported
vehicles and equipment
(a)  for Part A (1) of    2,350,000        100% of foreign
the Project                           expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(b) for Parts A (2)         310,000        100% of foreign
and B of the                          expenditures and
Project                               90% of local
expenditures
(3) Materials for road         1,020,000         100% of foreign
maintenance                                expenditures
(4) Training, consultants'
and experts' services:
(a) for Part A (1) (b)      820,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(b) for Part A (1) (a)
and (d) of the
Project
(i) to December 31,    720,000        100% of foreign
1986                             expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(ii) thereafter         310,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
15% of local
expenditures


﻿-14-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(c) for Part A (2)          410,000        100% of foreign
of the Project                        expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(d) for Part B (1)        1,430,000        100% of foreign
of the Project                        expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(e) for Part B (2)          720,000        100% of foreign
of the Project                        expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(5)  Refunding of Project      1,020,000        Amount due under
Preparation Advances                       Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(6)  Special Account             720,000        Amounts to be
deposited pur-
suant to para-
graph 3 (a) of
Schedule 5 to
this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                5,310,000
TOTAL               22,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 15 -
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) Category (1) (b)
until the Association shall have approved the works proposed to
be carried out; and (b) Category (4) (a) until the Association
shall have approved the terms of reference for the study referred
to in Part A (1) (b) of the Project.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to remove transport
bottlenecks in Accra; (ii) to demonstrate cost-effective improve-
ments to basic infrastructure in a small central area of Accra;
(iii) to strengthen the institutions responsible for infrastruc-
ture maintenance in Accra; and (iv) to increase municipal
revenues of Accra City Council.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modification thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Infrastructure
(1) Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Roads and Drainage in
Accra:
(a) Establishment and execution of a six-year program of
(i) completion   and  rehabilitation  of  major roads and    (ii)
periodic and routine maintenance of the road and drainage net-
work.
(b) Execution of a study of the Accra Central Business
District to determine road network requirements and traffic man-
agement measures.
(c) Execution of pilot measures and minor works indicated
by the results of the study carried out under paragraph 1 (b)
above.
(d) Strengthening of ADRU through improved procedures,
technical assistance, temporary secondment of GRA and ACC tech-
nical staff, and modernization and expansion of its equipment
fleet.
(2) Basic Infrastructure in East Maamobi:
Provision of basic roads, drainage, water supply, electri-
city, sanitation and garbage disposal in a 30 ha area of Nima-
Maamobi east of the Nima highway and north of the Nima stream,
and technical assistance, vehicles and equipment therefor.


﻿- 17 -
Part B:   Resource Mobilization
(1) Property Valuation:
Referencing and revaluation of all properties first in Accra
and thereafter in other cities, improvement of valuation
management and control systems, and training of valuers and other
technical personnel.
(2) Municipal Revenues Mobilization:
Improvement of ACC's revenue collection, financial manage-
ment, and accounting systems, training of ACC staff, and execu-
tion of the "Pay Your Rates" public information campaign.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1990.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
A.   Overall Coordination and Administration of the Project
1.   Overall coordination and administration of the Project will
be assured by the Technical Services Center of the Ministry of
Works and Housing. TSC will be strengthened through the recruit-
ment of a project engineer, secondment of engineering and
accounting staff from MWH or other government agencies, and by
short-term technical assistance in accounting and such other
areas as may be necessary for the efficient coordination and
administration of the Project. TSC will maintain the consolidated
project accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agree-
ment and will coordinate the disbursement of the Credit to all
components of the Project. TSC will operate the account referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, and will make payment
from this account for Project expenditures certified by ADRU,
GRA, ACC, and all Government agencies included in the execution
of the Project.
2.   To assist TSC and to give it guidance in its role of coordi-
nator of all Project activities, the inter-agency coordinating
committee will be maintained. The committee will be chaired by
the head of MWH and will include representatives of ADRU, GHA,
ACC, MLG, MRH and MFEP.
B.   Part A (1) of the Project
1.   GHA's Accra District Roads Unit will be responsible for
implementation of Part A (1) of the Project. ADRU will be
strengthened through secondment of an expert by GRA and through
technical assistance and training. The GHA seconded expert will
direct ADRU until transfer of ADRU from GHA to ACC. ACC will
recruit or designate a deputy to said expert to assist him and to
assume the management of ADRU following its transfer from GRA to
ACC. All procurement for ADRU will be handled by GRA until its
transfer to ACC upon which ACC will assume responsibility for
ADRU's procurement. Supervision of all civil works started under
Part A (1) of the Project will remain the responsibility of GHA
until their completion. ADRU staff will receive food in addition
to wages under an incentive program managed by WFP. Training of
ADRU staff will focus on programming and operation of continuous
road and drainage maintenance, and on vehicle and equipment fleet
maintenance and operation.


﻿- 19 -
2.   Vehicles and equipment procured by GHA for the road and
drainage maintenance program shall be registered in the name of
ACC. They shall be maintained by ADRU in its own workshop.
Beginning with the Effective Date of this Agreement, ACC shall
establish an account for vehicle and equipment replacement. ACC
shall annually provide in its budget and credit to such account
such amounts as shall be required to replace said vehicles and
equipment at the end of their useful life as determined in accor-
dance with sound engineering and financial practices.
3.   Pending the transfer of ADRU from GHA to ACC: (i) GHA and
ACC will, not later than October 31 of each year, agree on
sharing the recurrent expenses of road and drainage maintenance
for the forthcoming fiscal year and make appropriate provision of
their respective budgets for such shares; and (ii) GHA will
assure the supervision of the road and drainage maintenance pro-
gram in its entirety. Following such transfer, ACC will assure
full operating and financial responsibility for ADRU's road and
drainage maintenance program.
4.   The roads and drainage rehabilitation and maintenance pro-
gram will comprise:
(i) completion of a key motorway segment (Motorway III
from Nsawam Road to Winneba Road);
(ii) rehabilitation of priority truink road segments as
aTreed upon from time to time between the Borrower
and the Association; and
(iii) institution of a maintenance program comprising:
(a) periodic maintenance averaging about 50 km of
roads and drainage per year, increasing from about
10 km in the first year to about 90 km in the
sixth year; and (b) routine maintenance averaging
about 325 km per year, increasing from about 25 km
in the first year to about 550 km in the sixth
year, as agreed upon from time to time between the
Borrower and the Association. The maintenance
program will be designed annually on the basis of
priority works identified during each year.
C.   Part A (2) of the Project
1.   Part A (2) of the Project will be carried out by TSC,


﻿- 20 -
2.   The following works will be undertaken and the following
facilities will be installed in the East Maamobi area: construc-
tion of approximately 2.2 km of up to 10 m, right-of-way (ROW)
bitumen-surfaced roads with associated drainage, construction of
approximately 1.65 km of up to 5 m ROW bitumen-surfaced
footpaths, about 4.3 km of 10 cm and 20 cm diameter waterpipes,
installation of 10 fire hydrants, 8 multi-compartment public
latrines, 11 refuse containers of about 10 m3 capacity, and about
2.2 km of low tension overhead cable and limited street
lighting. The electrical network will not be designed for private
connections. The capacity of the water system will be designed to
permit individual connections at the option of the building
owners.
3.   The Borrower shall provide timely and adequate compensation
to the owners of structures destroyed in connection with the
infrastructure   installation   and   for   land   acquired   for
rights-of-way and public facilities.
D.   Part B (1) of the Project
1.   Part B (1) of the Project will be carried out by the Valua-
tion Department of MLG or such agency to take over the functions
of said Valuation Department as the Borrower may establish. Prior
to establishing such agency, the Borrower shall consult with the
Association on the organization and staffing of such agency and
shall take all measures necessary to ensure the smooth transfer
of all staff, technical assistance, vehicles and equipment
necessary to carry out Part B (1) of the Project from the Valua-
tion Department to said agency.
2.   The Valuation Department shall employ local private valuers
(approximately 360 staff-months) to assist it in referencing all
properties in Accra and shall obtain technical assistance from
three qualified valuers (approximately three years each) to
undertake the revaluation of real property in Accra and, time
permitting, elsewhere in Ghana. A qualified valuer will be
employed for approximately 12 staff-months to improve the
Valuation Department's in-house training program and to develop
improved management and control techniques for application in a
country-wide revaluation program. The Valuation Department shall
obtain short-term technical assistance to satisfy such other
needs as may be identified during the execution of activities
under Part B (1) of the Project. Training abroad of technicians
and valuers shall also be provided.


﻿- 21 -
E.   Part B (2) of the Project
1.   Part B (2) of the Project will be carried out by ACC, which
will obtain such technical assistance as may be required for the
purpose.
2.   ACC's municipal revenue mobilization program will focus on:
(a) increased revenue collection, (b) improved planning and
budgetary procedures, and (c) improved accounting systems and
controls.
3.   Increased revenue collection will result from increased
charges, increased collection targets, stepped-up enforcement and
a public awareness campaign. ACC will annually review with the
Association and revise its charges (including property rates,
market fees, licenses, permits and fees) as required to permit
the financing of its road and drainage maintenance and solid
waste collection programs. Collection targets for 1985 will be
increased to correspond to 1985 revenue estimates and will be
based on overall collection levels of 80% of local assessments
for fees and charges and 60% for property tax rates. Target
collection levels will be revised annually. It is the intention
that by end 1989 collections on property rates shall be at least
70%, and collections on fees and charges at least 90%.
Enforcement of debt collection shall be enhanced through the
recruiting of additional staff for the Solicitor's Department and
through improved procedures for debt collection. Collection of
municipal property tax arrears of parastatal entities shall be
improved and increases shall be sought in the Government's
contribution in lieu of full assessment on Government property.
The timing of the "Pay Your Rates" public information campaign
shall be coordinated with the timing of scheduled improvements in
road maintenance and solid waste collection and in the upgrading
of East Maamobi.
4.   Planning and budgeting procedures will be improved through,
inter alia, change-over to a service-oriented accounting and
budgeting system, the establishment of annual action plans for
ACC's operating departments and the adoption of a system of
three-year rolling financial plans and an integrated Accra
District budget.
5.   The accounting system will be improved through, inter alia,
adoption of a new coding system and conversion to a fully auto-


﻿- 22 -
mated management information system. Workshops on the new
accounting and management information system will be organized
and procedure manuals will be introduced. Improved billing forms
and accounting records will be introduced and amended as needed
following a year's testing. The internal and external audits will
be restructured to eliminate unnecessary duplication.
6.   Training programs for ACC staff in subjects relevant to the
activities to be carried out under Part B (2) of the Project will
be established and carried out. Training will be provided by
GIMPA and LGTS and such other entities as the Borrower and the
Association may agree. To this end, the Borrower shall cause
GIMPA and LGTS to employ such technical assistance and procure
such equipment and facilities as are necessary to deliver
effective training assistance.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
A.   International, Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
2.   Contracts for vehicles and civil works equipment will be
grouped to the maximum extent practicable to allow bulk
procurement.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A (1) of this Schedule, goods manufac-
tured in Ghana may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Works to be carried out under Part A (2) of the Project may
be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding in accord-
ance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Contracts for office equipment and supplies estimated to
cost less than $20,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of
price quotations from at least three suppliers, provided that the
aggregate amount of such contracts shall not exceed $260,000
equivalent.
3.   Periodic and routine maintenance of the Accra road and
drainage network may be carried out by ADRU by force account.
D.   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 24 -
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and each contract for
vehicles, equipment, spare parts, office equipment and supplies
and raw materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appen-
dix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however, that
where payments for such contract are to be made out of the pro-
ceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association, pursuant
to paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however,
that where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines together with the
other information specified therein, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a)
and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in coordinating and admini-
stering the Project through TSC and in carrying out Part B (1)
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ accounting and engi-
neering consultants and valuation experts whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants and experts shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to Categories (1)
through (4) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
Dollar equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (6) which
is to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   (a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such inLervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories (1) through (4),
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been


﻿- 26 -
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (1) through (4), minus the
amount of any outstanding qualified agreement to
reimburse made by the Association and of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Catego-
ries (1) through (4) shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.


﻿- 27 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
otherwise agreed by the Association, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198S.
FOR SECRETARY


