Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIClAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13866-MOZ
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
THIRD REHABILITATION CREDIT
(CREDIT 2021-MOZ)
January 11, 1995
Country Opearations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Metical (pl. Meticais)
Appraisal (April 1989):     US$1 =          709 Meticais
Completion (August 1993):   US$1 =        3,521 Meticais
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGRICOM       State Enterprise for Agricultural Marketing
BCM           Banco Commercial de Mocambique
BOM           Bank of Mozambique
ERC           Economic Recovery Credit
ERP           Economic Rehabilitation Program
ESAF          Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IDA           International Development Association
IMF           International Monetary Fund
Mt            Meticais
PRN           National Reconstruction Program
PTIP          Plano Trienal de Investimento Publico
(Three-year Public Investment Plan)
SAF           Structural Adjustment Facility
SNAAD         System for the Non-Administrative
Allocation of Foreign Exchange
SRC           Second Rehabilitation Credit
TRC           Third Rehabilitation Credit
UTRE          Unidade Tecnica de Reestruturacao das Empresas
(Enterprise Restructuring Unit)
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 11, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Program Completion Report on Mozambique
Third Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 2021-MOZ)
Attached is the Program Completion Report on Mozambique - Third Rehabilitation Credit (Credit
2021-MOZ) prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The Third Rehabilitation Credit (TRC) was designed to consolidate the policy reforms initiated in
1987 under the Government's Economic Rehabilitation Program. Its main objectives were to continue
support for appropriate fiscal and exchange rate adjustment, and to reform the foreign exchange system,
trade tariff structure, public expenditure management, and pricing and distribution policy.
T he TRC was implemented over a difficult period marked by several exogenous shocks, including
a severe drought in 1991/92, ongoing civil strife (until the signing of a Peace Accord in 1992), and a
termination of trade links with the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe in 1991. Although these
shocks inevitably affected economic growth and macroeconomic stability, the policy reform objectives
of the TRC were largely met. The project also contributed to the development of an institutional
capacity to formulate national investment plans. In addition, through this operation the Bank was able
to play an important catalytic role in mobilizing external financial support for Mozambique's adjustment
efforts.
Overall, Mozambique has implemented a difficult adjustment program in extraordinarily adverse
circumstances. Major price distortions have been eliminated; production, marketing and internal trade
have been largely liberalized; progress has been made in fiscal, parastatal and financial sector reforms;
and a basic framework for private sector development has been put in place. However, considerable
challenges lie ahead. Poverty is widespread, institutional capacity remains severely limited, and the
country is still heavily dependent on external aid flows and technical assistance. The sustainability of
benefits will depend to a large extent on the ability of the policymakers to generate an adequate supply
response through further structural adjustments in a peacetime environment when aid flows are likely
to decline.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. Institutional development is rated as modest and
sustainability as uncertain.
The PCR is of good quality. It provides a comprehensive and candid assessment of the program's
performance and draws important lessons of experience. An audit is not planned at this time.
Attachrment
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its conteoau
mray not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                                           i-vi
PART I - REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    The Economic Rehabilitation Program                             1
Background                                              1
Macroeconomic and Sectoral Objectives of the ERP        2
B.    Role of IDA                                                     3
Justification of IDA Support                            3
Program Design                                          3
Primary Policy Goals                                    4
Complementarity between the TRC and the IMF Program     4
Complementarity with Other Aid Flows                    5
C.    Implementation of Adjustment Program                            8
Implementation and Results of the Adjustment Program    8
The Reform of the Foreign Exchange System               9
The Reform of the Management of Public Expenditures     12
The Reform of Price and Distribution Policy             15
The Effectiveness of the National Customs System        17
Enterprise Sector Reform                                17
Institutional Development                               19
The Impact of the Donor Community                       20
Progress of Macroeconomic Adjustment                    23
The Implementation of Macroeconomic Policy Adjustment    25
Poverty and Recent Social Developments                  26
Utilization of the TRC                                  27
Assessment of Risk                                      27
Overall Progress in Reform                              27
D.    Lessons Learned for Subsequent Adjustment Programs              31
The Reform of the Foreign Exchange System               31
The Reform of the Management of Public Expenditures     31
The Reform of Price and Distribution Policy             32
The Enterprise Sector Reform                            32
The Impact of the Donor Community                       32
E.    Borrower's Performance                                          34
Compliance with Credit Agreement                        34
Disbursements                                           34
Audits                                                  35
Procurement                                             35
F.    Bank Supervision                                                37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEX 1: COMPLIANCE WITH COVENANTS           37
PART II - REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE    38
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION             42



PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
THIRD REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Credit 2021-MOZ)
PREFACE
This is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Rehabilitation Credit in
Mozambique, for which Credit 2021-MOZ in the original amount of SDR 68.2 million
(US$90.0 million equivalent) was approved on May 18, 1989. For disbursement purposes the
Credit was closed on August 31, 1993, over two years behind schedule. A further extension
of the Credit closing date to April 30, 1994, was approved pending resolution of some of the
Credit's audit and accounting issues. An undisbursed credit amount of SDR .770 million
(US$1.08 million equivalent) was cancelled on June 6, 1994.
The Credit was cofinanced by the United Kingdom (12.8 million pounds, US$21
million equivalent); Norway (75 million Norwegian Kroner, US$12.3 million equivalent);
Switzerland (20.1 million Swiss Francs, US$ 14 million equivalent); Finland (40 million
Finnish Markkaa, US$10.4 million equivalent), and Denmark (US$545,545, transferred from
the Second Rehabilitation Credit).
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Borrower (Part II) and the Country Operations
Division of the Southern Africa Department (Parts I and III). Parts I and III draft were sent
to the Government and Cofinanciers with a request for their comments. The Government
submitted Part II of this report, which incorporates their comments on the credit's program
and its implementation.
The PCR is based on the President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement,
theLetter of Development Policy, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, and discussions with the relevant Government
officials and Bank staff.'
1The Program Completion Report (Parts I and III) was prepared by Mr. Andrew Goudie (Consultant) and Ms. Carolina Machado
(AF6CO). The Task Manager at the time of Appraisal and at start of implementation was Mr. Nils Tcheyan. Task Managers during
implementation were Mr. James Biderman, Ms. Jane Armitage, and Ms. Machado. Mr. Praful Patel is the managing Division Chief, and Mr.
Stephen Denning is the Department Director.






PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
THIRD REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Credit 2021-MOZ)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The Third Rehabilitation Credit (TRC) was designed both to consolidate the policy
reforms of the first two years of the Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) and to maintain
the momentum for further reforms in subsequent years. Within this context, the objectives of
the TRC were fundamentally unchanged from those of the Second Rehabilitation Program
(SRC) - which had supported the reform program of 1987-89 - and, therefore, maintained the
focus on the structural adjustment of key aspects of the economic system.
2.    The initiation of the Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) in January 1987 marked
a move towards a comprehensive reform program, based on establishing an increasingly
greater reliance on market mechanisms, a substantial reduction in the degree of centralized
direction of economic activity and the integration of the national economy within the
international economic environment. More specifically, the objectives of the ERP were to (i)
reverse the decline in production and sustain a steady growth path in order to restore a
minimum level of consumption and income for all the population, particularly in rural areas;
(ii) reduce substantially the domestic financial imbalances and strengthen the external accounts
and reserves; (iii) enhance efficiency and establish the conditions for a return to higher levels
of economic growth once the security situation and other exogenous constraints eased; (iv)
integrate official and parallel markets; and (v) restore orderly financial relationships with
trading partners and creditors.
3.    The TRC was an integral element of the broader international support for the reform
program and, in conjunction with the SAF and ESAF programs of the IMF, the TRC played
an important catalytic role in the mobilization of other external sources of finance. Indeed,
the level of total external assistance (including all grants, credits, debt relief and the effective
assistance from the accumulation of arrears) averaged almost four times the value of the
export revenues from both goods and services in 1989.
Implementation Experience
4.    Despite the powerful adverse influence of the insecurity situation until the signing of
the Peace Accord in October 1992 - and, indeed, for many years to come as the massive
impact is gradually overcome - and the serious repercussions of the 1991/92 drought, the
primary objectives of the Third Rehabilitation Credit were attained. Of most importance, the
program of policy reform continued across a wide range of macroeconomic and structural
policy. Moreover, upon project completion in 1993, it is clear that the impetus for reform is
being maintained. The key policy objectives of the TRC were implemented as follows:



- ii -
(i)    Allocation of foreign exchange. Despite initial difficulties in establishing a system
for the non-administrative allocation of foreign exchange, the SNAAD accelerated the
progress towards the formation of the Secondary Market in 1990,and the subsequent
unification of the official and secondary markets in 1992;
(ii)    The deployment of public expenditure. With the compilation of the rolling three-
year PTIP, there was a major enhancement in the efficiency with which public
expenditures were deployed and in their orientation towards the primary objectives of
the ERP;
(iii)   The market-based price mechanism. The establishment of a market-based pricing
mechanism for the allocation of goods and services was broadly achieved, with
important benefits as an integral element of the incentive framework for economic
production and trade; and
(iv)   The review and reform of the trade tariff structure. A major review of the tariff
structure was undertaken in 1989 and 1990, leading to a substantial rationalization of
the rate structure and the elimination of most exemptions.
Results of the Program
5.    It is impossible to isolate the specific impact of the TRC, as it was an integral element
of the overall ERP: instead, it is appropriate to assess the global impact to which the TRC
contributed.
6.     While GDP growth averaged 6.1 percent per annum over the 1989-93 period, falling
well short of the 11.4 percent per annum averaged over the life of the SRC from 1987-89,
most of the deterioration in performance was attributable to the two constraints: the impact of
the insecurity and the drought. Certainly, the deterioration in 1992, when GDP fell by -0.8%,
is primarily attributable to the severe impact of the drought, allowing little inference to be
drawn from the production indicators about the effectiveness of the policy reform programs
supported by the TRC.
7.    It is preferable to assess the effectiveness with which the reforms were implemented.
In each of the five policy areas targeted under the TRC, progress in implementation was
generally successful in meeting the initial objectives.
8.     Throughout the first seven years of the ERP, exchange rate policy played a critical
role. Following the major readjustment of the exchange rate in 1987, which precipitated the
fall in the ratio of the parallel exchange rate to the official exchange rate from 40 to 2.2
during the year, there followed three years of comparatively little adjustment in the real
official exchange rate. While the nominal exchange rate was progressively and steadily
depreciated over the three year period, 1988-90, this adjustment process was only sufficient to
maintain a broadly constant real effective exchange rate: in fact, in the three years, the real
effective exchange rate appreciated by a little over one percent. Consequently, the parallel
rate premium over the official rate generally showed an upward, if volatile, trend.
9.     The most marked progress in policy occurred with the introduction of the secondary
market in November 1990, following which the real effective exchange rate recommenced its
depreciation. In consequence, the premium on parallel market rates fell sharply from a high



- iii -
of 165 percent in 1990 to less than 20 percent in April 1992, before reaching a post-
Independence low of 14 percent in August 1992. In the course of 1991-92, the real effective
exchange rate depreciated by over 22 percent. The second major policy step was the
unification of the official and secondary markets in April 1992. Although the unification was
temporarily suspended in September 1992, a unified rate was successfully reinstated and
maintained from June 1993.
10.   In 1987 and 1988, the fiscal adiustment was equally striking. Bank financing of the
budget stood at 12 percent of GDP in 1986, and, having fallen sharply in the first two years
of the ERP, the Government was able to reduce its credit outstanding with the banking system
to 1.4 percent in 1993. The success of this policy was a major factor in the progress towards
sustainability in the monetary aggregates. One of the key underlying reasons was the
significant increase in budgetary revenues, from 18.1 percent of GDP in 1986 to 20.7 percent
in 1988 and, subsequently, to 21 percent on average in 1992 and 1993. Over the TRC period,
government expenditures averaged 47-48 percent of GDP. This level, however, hides the real
trend of government expenditures, since there were substantial changes in the budgetary
coverage over the period. As is reflected in the trends in bank financing to the budget, the
overall deficit after grants showed an encouraging downward trend from a peak of
12.4 percent of GDP in 1990 to 5.2. percent of GDP in 1993.
11.    Throughout the life of the Economic Rehabilitation Program, the adjustment
framework has embodied a substantial degree of macroeconomic disequilibrium. This,
however, was explicitly recognized as an important part of the overall reform program, in
order to secure the restoration of sustainable economic growth and, thus, the re-establishment
of macroeconomic balance over the medium to long-term. Consequently, there was no
expectation that there would be substantial reductions in the macroeconomic imbalances in the
early years of the adjustment. This has, indeed, been the case.
12.   Progress towards enhancing transparency of the financial system have revealed that
financial imbalances in the financial and enterprise sectors are substantial. Explicit budgetary
subsidies to state enterprises were reduced to less than one percent of GDP by 1992, but
implicit subsidies proved more difficult to eliminate. One source of implicit subsidy -- the
non-payment of counterpart funds (or delayed payment) required for the importation of
commodities financed by import support funds -- was eliminated in 1992. Stricter explicit
credit rules were also imposed. The Government adopted the principle that bank loans would
not be granted to cover the operating losses of state enterprises, following its assumption in
1987 of financial responsibility for the bad loans of state enterprises (amounting to 14 percent
of GDP). Nevertheless, the publication of Bank of Mozambique's (BOM) and Banco
Comercial de Mocambique's (BCM) accounts in mid-1993 revealed that substantial additional
credit to state enterprises had in fact been provided in the period 1987-1992 (mainly as a
consequence of BCM's continued close association with the Government through BOM), with
the accumulation of non-performing loans (eventually assigned to BCM) in the order of
4 percent of GDP.
13.   Savings mobilization has been poor. Domestic dis-saving is extreme (- 11 percent of
GDP in current prices in 1993), and most of it is from the private rather than the public
sector. This has largely been a consequence of severe disruptions to agricultural activity
flowing from the civil war. Revitalized economic activity should therefore increase domestic
savings -- and it is expected that, with a continuation of peace, the resettlement of rural areas,



- iv -
and an increase in agricultural production, savings rates should increase quickly in the near
future.
Lessons for Subsequent Adjustment Programs
14.    The TRC focused attention on several areas of policy reform that required addressing
in the subsequent years:
The Reform of the Foreign Exchange System
15.    Several lessons from the initial attempt to establish a market-based foreign exchange
mechanism are apparent:
(i)    Real equilibrium exchange rate. There was a primary pre-requisite for an appropriate
equilibrium exchange rate to be established. Throughout the SNAAD period, this
condition was not fulfilled, although there were certainly additional problems to the
setting of the rate attributable to the uneven and unpredictable flow of available
foreign exchange. The avoidance of an inherent tendency to excess demand and a
return to centralized administrative allocation was seen, therefore, to depend on an
appropriate exchange rate;
(ii)    Sources of foreign exchange. The setting of an appropriate equilibrium exchange rate
and the maintenance of a market system that is relatively small and selective depends
on an even flow of exchange. The lesson is that the adoption of such a limited degree
of market allocation is too problematic and a faster move to liberalization would avoid
these problems. The more recent experience of the secondary market would tend to
support this latter conclusion. There is additionally a need for donors to respond
rapidly in the provision of more flexible sources of funds - both with regard to the
source of products and the procurement rules that were specified;
(iii)   Credibility of the system. The integrity of the system decayed rapidly as the
publicized regulations and conditions for eligibility were set aside. Maintaining such a
system depends fundamentally on a rigorous adherence to the declared regulations in
order to maintain confidence;
(iv)   Dialogue with the Government.  Even though the SNAAD may have been
unsuccessful in many respects, it played a valuable role in the policy dialogue. In this
respect, even a modest policy step was shown to be highly beneficial in highlighting
the key priorities that needed to be addressed in order to accelerate the trade reform
process.
The Reform of the Management of Public Expenditures
16.    The experience of reform suggests several important lessons in this regard:
(i)    The integration of the expenditure program.  The proliferation of the sources of
budgetary assistance required an accelerated program of coordination and prioritization
in order to align better the expenditure program with the objectives of the ERP. A
much more tightly defined set of objectives and responsibilities for each expenditure
initiative - with all initiatives brought under the fiscal umbrella - would have



v -
substantially alleviated the problem of expenditure overlap and potential policy
incompatibility;
(ii)    The orientation of the program.  A clear lesson from the Mozambique experience was
that Donor Coordination Groups should play a much more central role in the
government expenditure process. Specifically, only by an effective and forceful
presentation to the donor community on a regular ongoing basis can the government
expect to realign the priorities of the donor community to support the sectoral and
macroeconomic program. Arguably, such Coordination Groups should be chaired at
the highest level by the Minister of Finance, supported, as necessary, by sectoral
Ministers;
(iii)   Macroeconomic Policy.  Macroeconomic policy-making was severely hampered by
the inaccuracy and under-recording of the true degree of Government expenditure. A
comprehensive coverage of all expenditures within the official budgetary framework is
an essential pre-requisite for informed fiscal policy formulation.
The Reform of Price and Distribution Policy
17.    While, in general, the reform process in this regard has been effective, the failure to
unite the parallel and official product markets did seriously hamper the development of the
incentive structure. There is a clear lesson that unification should be accorded a high priority
in four respects:
(i)    the influx of emergency assistance, of which a large percentage was illegally finding
its way to the parallel markets, should be much more tightly controlled;
(ii)   the flow of illegal imports from neighboring countries should be stemmed;
(iii)  the competitiveness of domestically produced products should be safeguarded by the
imposition of equal tax burdens on domestically and imported products;
(iv)   the overvaluation of the meticais should have been more rapidly eliminated.
18.   In addition, it has now emerged more clearly that the reform process undertaken by
the central Government should be complemented by similar policy reform at the provincial and
district levels. To the extent that policy is directed at these lower levels, it is important that
the same market-based approach reinforces the central reform program.
Enterprise Sector Reform
19.    Several lessons from the experience of enterprise reform emerge:
(i)    the commercial and legal framework. In retrospect, the process of enterprise reform
would have been greatly accelerated by a more comprehensive re-commercialization of
economic activity and, specifically, the enforcement of commercial contracts. Too
little attention was paid to the continuing accumulation of bad debt within the
productive enterprise sector and between the productive and financial sectors.
Moreover, a stronger move towards reducing the dominance of the state in the
ownership of both productive and financial enterprises would have provided the
incentives to rectify these problems;



- vi -
(ii)    enterprise restructuring.  Policy should have been directed at a more market-based
approach: with, firstly, a greater pressure for the transfer of assets to private
ownership and, secondly, a more aggressive approach to the establishing of an
enabling business environment. More specifically, an accelerated withdrawal of state
support, together with an enforcement of contractual debt obligations, would have
compelled enterprises -and, notably, state enterprises - to adopt more decisive
strategies either for restructuring, securing private sector support (either through joint
ventures or privatization) or liquidation;
(iii)   financial sector.  It is arguable that, had the reforms of the financial sector been
initiated in parallel with the productive sector reforms - with a more explicit
recognition of the crucial interlinkages - then the latter would have proceeded in a
more efficient manner within an appropriate market-based structure;
(iv)    enterprise subsidies.  A high priority should be accorded to the termination of ad hoc
Government subsidies and to eliminating the continued provision of bank credit to
enterprises with non-performing debt;
(vi)   targeting of enterprise subsidies. In view of the widespread uncreditworthiness in the
enterprise sector, the government clearly needed to adopt a more rigorous analysis of
the sector in order to determine those enterprises that were most likely to be viable
over the long-term and were, therefore, worthy of short-term transitional support.
Only through such an approach could the fiscal costs of a more generalized enterprise
support and the broader economic ill-effects of a subsidized system be averted.
Certainly, any assistance of this nature should be transparent and managed solely
through the fiscal system.
The Impact of the Donor Conmunuity
20.    Several lessons emerge from the experience of coordinating policy reform with the
support programs of the donor community:
(i)    trade reform. One of the contributing factors to the lack of success of the
Government's first efforts to pursue trade reform was the inflexibility of donor
assistance. The experience highlighted the importance of securing an even and
predictable flow of donor aid in order to design appropriate policy, and the importance
of eliminating the tying of aid to specific products or product sources or procurement
rules;
(ii)   impact on domestic production incentives.   There is an urgent need both to control
more effectively the flows of humanitarian assistance - to curb the illegal diversion of
aid; to maximize the local sourcing of such products; and to regulate more flexibly the
inflow of such aid, with supplies being rapidly cut back as the situation is alleviated;
(iii)   public expenditure reform. Progress towards a more appropriate expenditure program
was severely constrained by the pressures of the donor community and by their
preferences rather than those defined by the ERP. As noted above, the Donor
Coordination Groups might have played a more dominant role in accelerating the
transformation in this respect.



PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIOUE
THIRD REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Credit 2021-MOZ)
PART I - REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name:       Third Rehabilitation Credit
Credit No.:         2021-MOZ
RVP Unit:           Africa Regional Office
Country:            Mozambique
Sector:             SAL
A. THE ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Background
1.    Mozambique's economic problems in the post-Independence period have been
attributable to a multiplicity of factors of which the most important have been the serious
structural weaknesses inherited from the colonial era, the political instability of the Southern
African region, the severe deterioration of national security and a series of calamitous natural
disasters. Moreover, for many years, these powerful exogenous forces were exacerbated by
the pursuance of inappropriate domestic economic policies. In addition to the serious
repercussions for domestic production and trade, the attempts rigorously to control both
production and marketing activities led to the development of a major parallel market in both
goods and foreign exchange. Serious imbalances emerged in both the fiscal account and in
the external accounts, and it became apparent that prevailing policies were totally inadequate
to reverse the serious trends.
2.    In consequence, there was sharp decline in the economy, particularly in the first half
of the 1980s, with real GDP falling by 1986 to around two thirds of the 1980 level. By
1987, 60-70 percent of the population was absolutely poor, and Mozambique's social
indicators were arnong the worst in the world. Much of the rural infrastructure (electricity
transmission lines, roads, bridges, and railroads) had been devastated by more than ten years
of civil war, fueled by political developments in Southern Africa. A third of all health units
and half of the primary schools had been destroyed. Much of the service networks
(marketing, transport, social sectors) operated poorly or was inoperative. Most enterprises
had been nationalized or taken over by the state as 'intervened' companies. The industrial
sector was paralyzed (output was only one third of the 1973 level), and the agricultural sector
was reverting to subsistence levels. The consequence was a sharp fall in Mozambique's
import capacity as exports fell by two thirds. Aid dependence was extreme: because of the
sharp decline in production and exports, 90 percent of marketed grain in the country had to be
provided through emergency assistance. External debt was unmanageable: Mozambique's
debt stock was equal to 3.5 times its GDP and 45 times its exports.



3.     The initiation of the Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) in January 1987 marked
a move towards a comprehensive reform program, based on establishing an increasingly
greater reliance on market mechanisms, a substantial reduction in the degree of centralized
direction of economic activity and the integration of the national economy within the
international economic environment. The Secondary Rehabilitation Credit (SRC) was
designed to support the first stages of the reform program and the Third Rehabilitation Credit
(TRC), which became effective on August 4, 1989, was simnilarly designed both to consolidate
the policy reforms of the first two years of the program and to maintain the momentum for
further reforms in subsequent years. Within this context, the broad objectives of the TRC
were fundamentally unchanged from those of the SRC, and, therefore, maintained the focus
on the structural adjustment of key aspects of the economic system.
4.    In 1989, as at the start of the ERP in 1987, the primary economic problem was to
design an appropriate set of reform policies in the context of an ongoing war situation, which,
it was acknowledged, would inevitably dampen to a marked extent the responsiveness to
changes in the policy environment. In this context, the ERP was explicitly designed
progressively to establish a policy framework that would be most appropriate when peace was
restored. The continuation of minimal controls was seen as necessary in a war situation, but,
even with the ongoing security problem, it was determined that a more market-orientated
approach would provide the greatest potential for recovery in the short term and certainly
allow a more rapid recovery with the re-establishment of peace.
5.    In addition, the government strategy embedded in the ERP was explicitly gradualist in
nature. The government took this approach on the basis of four broad areas of concern: the
realization that the potential for a response to the policy changes was weak, due both to the
war constraint and to the severe supply-side weaknesses, including the serious infrastructural
deficiencies; the perceived costs of a rapid adjustment process, particularly in an environment
in which severe poverty was so widespread and so intense; the anticipated political costs of a
reversal of economic policy were the pace of reform perceived to be too rapid; and the need
to allow time for the firm establishment of an entirely different mode of economic thinking
and culture, following a long period of centralized and direct economic management and the
difficulties of gaining widespread acceptance of the new decentralized and market-based
approach.
6.     The reversal of the economic downturn and the establishment of recovery in 1987 and
1988 lent support to the appropriateness of the Economic Rehabilitation Program and its
underlying strategy. Thus, the primary objective of the TRC was to build on this encouraging
progress through the deepening and broadening of the structural adjustment and through
addressing the newly emerging priorities. The TRC was designed to provide the financial
support to this ongoing policy program.
Macroeconomic and Sectoral Objectives of the ERP
7.     The general objectives of the ERP were:
(i)   to reverse the decline in production and restore a minimum level of consumption and
income for all the population, particularly in rural areas;
(ii)   to reduce substantially the domestic financial imbalances and strengthen the external
accounts and reserves;



- 3 -
(iii)  to enhance efficiency and establish the conditions for a return to higher levels of
economic growth once the security situation and other exogenous constraints eased;
(iv)   to integrate official and parallel markets; and
(v)    to restore orderly financial relationships with trading partners and creditors.
8.     The ERP over the life of the TRC was designed to achieve real GDP growth of
between 4% and 5%, with recovery centered on the agricultural sector and the revitalization
of the rural areas. This was seen as the most effective strategy for achieving macroeconomic
stability over the medium to long term and for restoring incomes and reducing severe and
widespread poverty. Within the framework of the Policy Framework Papers, macroeconomic
adjustment was to be accelerated in fields of fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policy, while
comprehensive institutional changes were to be effected in the key sectors of agricultural,
industry, transport and energy. The primary strategy was to re-establish the incentive
structure throughout the productive and distributive sectors through market-based incentives.
B. ROLE OF IDA
Justification of IDA Support
9.     Within the first two years of the adjustment process, it became apparent that the
reform program would need to be maintained over many years. Even in the absence of war,
the nature and scale of the economic distortions within the economy necessitated the
formulation of a long-term program of adjustment. Specifically, it became increasingly
apparent that, while the macroeconomic stabilization reform program had made substantial
progress in many areas, and while significant project assistance was being received from the
donor community, there remained widespread weaknesses in the economic structure and in the
macroeconomic policy framework that would increasingly need to be addressed. Indeed, the
effectiveness of both the macroeconomic program and the project assistance clearly depended
on developing the basic policy instruments (fiscal, credit and exchange rate policies) that were
needed for carrying further the process of structural adjustment.
10.    For these reasons, the TRC particularly addressed the problem of improving the
resource allocation processes, specifically with regard to the allocation of foreign exchange
and public expenditures, but also with respect to the objective of enhancing the allocation of
goods and services through the general price mechanism.
11.   In addition to this support for the structural policy reforms, the first two years of the
ERP emphasized the importance of maintaining substantial long-term external assistance.
Indeed, the fundamental strategy of the government was premised on the fact that substantial
macroeconomic imbalances would remain a feature of the Mozambique economy for some
time, specifically due to the substantial inflows of foreign assistance to maintain the domestic
levels of consumption and investment. In this context, the support of IDA was crucial, both
in the direct mobilization of funds to the government and in its catalytic role in mobilizing the
resources of the remainder of the donor community. Just as in the 1987-88 period, the
programs of the IMF and IDA were seen - to varying degrees - as important prerequisites for
bilateral programs of both project, program and debt assistance, and for the multilateral
moves towards debt rescheduling and debt relief.



-4 -
Program Design
12.   The TRC had two principal objectives:
(i)   to support the consolidation of the progress made in macroeconomic stabilization; and
(ii)   to initiate reforms in key aspects of resource allocation in order to sustain the
recovery process.
13.   The TRC was approved by the Board of Executive Directors on 18 April 1989. It
included IDA financing of SDR 68.2 million, and co-financing administered by IDA from
Switzerland (SwF 20 million), Finland (FMks 40 million), United Kingdom
(£Stg 12.5 million) and Norway (NKr 50). In addition, co-financing associated with the
TRC, but administered on a parallel-financing basis, included Germany (DM 20 million) and
Sweden (SKr 60 million).
Primary Policy Goals
14.   Under the Credit, there was a general objective of monitoring and assessing the broad
implementation of the Government's Economic Rehabilitation Program. There were
additionally five specific policy goals of primary importance:
(i)   the establishment of a system for the non-administrative allocation of foreign
exchange;
(ii)   the enhancement of the efficiency with which public expenditures are deployed and
their reorientation towards the primary objectives of the ERP;
(iii)  the improvement of the pricing system to make prices more closely reflect domestic
market conditions and international prices;
(iv)   the improvement of the functioning of the distribution system by decontrolling trade;
and
(v)   the review and reform of the trade tariff structure.
These objectives were broadly met, as is detailed further below, and there was compliance
with the conditions for the release of the second tranche of the credit (see Annex 1). There
was, however, a short delay in the release of the tranche, attributable to the slower progress
than originally planned in the compilation and appropriate definition of the PTIP. This
slippage was not serious and good progress has been maintained in the design of subsequent
PTIPs. In general, the ERP led to the introduction of policy reforms that were more
ambitious than those proposed and supported under the TRC. This provided an encouraging
indicator of the future sustainability of the reform program.
Complementarity between the TRC and the IMF Programs
15.   Both the SRC and the Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) program were designed to
support the implementation of the ERP and, in consequence, there was strong
complementarity between the two programs. The Third Rehabilitation Credit sought to



consolidate the progress of the previous two years and to maintain the momentum of the
reform process. In parallel, and again playing a complementary role, the third year of the
SAF and the subsequent three year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) supported
the same key policy objectives as the TRC.
16.   The SAF and ESAF policy measures continued to focus on:
(i)    returning the economy to a path of sustainable recovery;
(ii)   decelerating the rate of inflation;
(iii)   deepening the process of transformation to a competitive market basis; and
(iv)   reducing the domestic and external imbalances through tight fiscal and monetary
policies and depreciation of the official exchange rate;
17.    Over time, the emphasis of the ESAF program necessarily underwent some changes,
and in the latest annual arrangement, four major issues have been addressed:
(i)   the slippage that occurred during 1992 in the program implementation;
(ii)   the serious impact of the 1992 drought;
(iii)  the impact of the peace process; and
(iv)   the provision of targeted measures to alleviate the conditions for the poorest segments
of the population.
18.    Over the course of the three year SAF (from June 1987 to June 1990), the IMF
extended a total of SDR 42.7 million to the Government, and, under the three year ESAF
(from June 1990 to September 1993), a total of SDR 100.65 million was extended.
Complementarity with Other Aid Flows
19.   In conjunction with the SAF and ESAF programs of the IMF, the TRC continued to
play a catalytic role in the mobilization of other external sources of finance. As Table 1
indicates, there was a substantial increase in the volume of grants and credit extended to
Mozambique over the period 1986-89, and this was extended during the life of the TRC.
Indeed, it is apparent that the level of total external assistance (including all grants, credits,
debt relief and the effective assistance from the accumulation of arrears) was almost four
times the value of the export revenues from both goods and services in 1989, and, while this
dependence declined over the next four years, total external assistance was still over three
times the value of export revenues in 1993. Important progress was made in increasing the
concessionality of external aid, and the share of grants in total grant plus credit assistance was
further raised from 60 % in 1989 to over 70% by 1993. Moreover, the credit aid largely had
a very high grant element, thereby imposing a small burden on the economy's future debt
service.
20.   The increased levels of project and balance of payment support were accompanied by
a parallel emphasis on debt relief measures. In 1987, the IMF and IDA programs facilitated



- 6 -
the initial debt rescheduling under the Paris Club and London Club, and, in June 1990, a
further Paris Club rescheduling was undertaken on Toronto terms. Consequent to the
agreement in principle, all the appropriate bilateral arrangements were concluded by
September 1992. Moreover, throughout 1991 and 1992, similar debt rescheduling
arrangements were reached with non Paris Club creditors and, in addition, around 64 percent
of the outstanding commercial debt was retired at a discount in 1991, utilizing funds from the
IDA special debt reduction facility and donor financial support. On the 23 March 1993, the
most recent Paris Club agreement under enhanced concessions was reached, covering 1993
maturities and, in principle, 1994 maturities. As Table 1 reflects, debt relief was most
substantial during the life of the TRC, averaging $480 million per annum. This was
equivalent to almost 70% percent of the annual average inflow of foreign exchange from
credits and grants extended to Mozambique.



- 7 -
Table 1.: External Assistance: By Source
1989      1990       1991       1992       1993
Foreign Exchange Inflows
($ million)
Grants                       387.5      448.4      501.7      499.4      503.0
Credits                      256.7      251.4      144.1       169.8     186.0
of which:
IDA                          50.3       85.8        65.4       97.5      94.2
TRC (IDA)                    22.5       40.0        26.0        1.4       2.6
Debt relief                   21.1      353.3      384.9      668.6      882.0
Accumulation of arrears      397.5       50.8       85.7      -222.2    -497.0
Export of goods              104.8      126.4      162.3       139.3     131.8
Exports of services          166.7      173.4      202.8      222.6      239.8
Total                       1,334.3    1,403.7    1,481.5    1,509.7    1,445.6
Composition of Total Forex
Inflow (%)
Grants                        29.0       31.9       33.9       33.1       34.8
Credits                       19.2       17.9        9.7        13.4      12.9
Debt relief                    1.6       25.2       26.0       44.3       61.0
Accumulation of arrears       29.8        3.6        5.8       -14.7     -34.4
Exports of goods               7.9        9.0       11.0        9.2        9.1
Exports of services           12.5       12.4       13.7       14.7       16.6
Total                        100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0     100.0
Memo
Grant (as % of grants plus    60.2       64.1       77.7       74.6       73.0
credits)
Export of g/s (as % of Total  20.3       21.4       24.6       24.0       25.7
Foreign Exchange Inflows)
IDA (as % of Total Foreign     3.8        6.1        4.4        6.5        6.5
Exchange Inflows)
TRC (as % of Total IDA        44.7       46.6       39.8         1.4       2.8
lending)                            I          I                     I_ ___  _



- 8 -
C. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Implementation and Results of the Adjustment Program
21.    Despite the powerful adverse influence of the insecurity situation until the signing of
the Peace Accord in October 1992 - and, indeed, for many years to come as the massive
impact is gradually overcome - and the serious repercussions of the 1991/92 drought, the
structural reform under the program continued to move forward across a wide range of
macroeconomic and structural policy. Moreover, upon project completion in 1993, it is clear
that the impetus for reform is being maintained.
22.   It is, however, impossible to isolate the specific impact of the TRC, as it was an
integral element of the overall ERP: it would not be meaningful to attribute the combined
impact of the policy reforms and extensive external funding to any single factor. In addition,
there were major external shocks impacting on the economy throughout this period, which
make the isolation of the TRC's role in economic recovery yet more difficult to define. For
example, aid from, and trade with, the former Soviet Union stopped in 1991, and
Mozambique lost key markets in Eastern Europe. The result was a loss of foreign exchange
amounting to over 8 percent of GDP. The civil was worsened, causing an increase in the
percentage of displaced households from 30 percent in 1988 to over 50 percent in 1992, which
reduced agricultural growth. Then in 1992, the agricultural sector was devastated by the most
severe drought of the century. In addition, export prices of most of Mozambique's agro-
industrial exports declined. Rough estimates suggest that the external shocks reduced output
by at least 5 percent p.a. on average, thus accounting for two-thirds of the decline in GDP.
The growth from 9.8 percent per annum on average in 1987-89 to 1.7 percent per annum in
1990-1992.'
23.    From the perspective of maintaining the economic growth that had been achieved in
1987 and 1988, the TRC does not appear to have been as successful as the SRC. However,
while GDP growth averaged 2.9 percent per annum over the 1989-92 period, falling well
short of the 11.4 percent per annum averaged over the life of the SRC from 1987-89, most of
the deterioration in performance is attributable to the two constraints referred to in the
previous paragraph: that is, the impact of the insecurity and the drought. Certainly, the sharp
deterioration in 1992, when GDP fell by 0.8 percent, was attributable to the severe impact of
the drought and the cessation of aid from the former Soviet Union and the loss of export
markets, allowing little inference to be drawn from the production indicators about the
effectiveness of the policy reform programs supported by the TRC.
24.    An indication of the importance of these last two factors is provided by the experience
of 1993: when the security situation improved markedly and the drought ended, GDP growth
increased sharply to 19.1 percent. Indeed, it is likely that the growth observed in 1993 would
have been much more modest if reforms had not been implemented continuously during the
previous six years.
1 Due to inadequacies in the national accounts, the level of GDP is underestimated and ratios to GDP may be misleading.
Trends are somewhat more reliable than levels and ratios, but all statistics should be treated with caution. The Government has
decided to revise the national accounts in 1994.



- 9 -
25.    As was noted above, the TRC has four specific objectives in addition to the
fundamental objective supporting the basic strategy for reform. In each of the five policy
areas targeted under the TRC, progress in implementation was generally successful in meeting
the initial objectives. Certainly, problems did emerge in the course of implementation, and
these are analyzed below. Boxes 1-4 outline the detailed progress made in these specific
areas.
The Reform of the Foreign Exchange System
26.    The primary objective of the SNAAD was progressively to establish a market-based
system for the allocation of foreign exchange. Specifically, the system aimed to eliminate the
administrative allocation of foreign exchange for a range of selected products through the
abandonment of quantitative restrictions on these products and through the automatic granting
of funds for their import. Thus, having determined the appropriate exchange rate, the supply
of foreign exchange through the system would be unrestricted, with the demand for exchange
managed solely through the exchange rate and through the tariff system. Moreover, to
enhance the competitiveness of the system, transparency was stressed through the publication
of eligibility criteria and of the selected products that could be obtained through such funds.
27.    From several key perspectives, there is no doubt that the SNAAD was of limited
success relative to the original objectives. Most importantly, a market clearing exchange rate
was never appropriately established and the central requirement of an unrestricted supply of
foreign exchange at the given exchange rate was never achieved. Indeed, these two factors
were closely inter-related: specifically, while the flow of foreign exchange made available to
the SNAAD was very uneven - such that funds designated for the system were rapidly
exhausted for long periods during the life of SNAAD - the target of a relatively stable
equilibrium exchange rate in the system was largely indefinable. Nonetheless, there is no
doubt that this situation was exacerbated by the selected exchange rate, which was never
brought into line with an approximate equilibrium rate - as evidenced by the widening of the
parallel rate premium over the official rate. To this extent, the inadequate exchange rate
policy of the 1988-1990 period undermined the tentative first steps towards trade reform rather
than the specific form of trade reform that was adopted.
28.   In addition, the donor community did not provide the degree of support anticipated,
and, in the event, only the funds from the TRC and associated co-financing were allocated to
the system. In particular, the Government's own export revenues were not allocated to the
SNAAD and this greatly inhibited the establishment of an operational market. As is noted
further below, donor funds continued to be inappropriately tied and constrained by
procurement rules, thereby precluding their deployment in a market-based system. In
addition, donors continued to provide competing sources of foreign exchange for some of the
products specifically selected for the SNAAD. Thus, the external community was, in part,
important in imposing constraints on the rate at which trade reform could proceed within the
domestic economy.
29.    While the SNAAD did not achieve its primary objective of establishing a market-based
allocation system - and this was only effectively achieved with the formation of the secondary
market in October 1990 and, particularly, with the unification of the secondary and official
rates in April 1992 - there were two important respects in which the SNAAD played a crucial
role in the reform process:



- 10 -
(i)   the government did not have a consensus to move ahead with reform at a more
accelerated pace in 1988 and 1989, and was, in particular, resistant to substantial
exchange rate adjustment, the loosening of centralized control over the foreign
exchange allocation and to broadening the range of importers that were eligible to
purchase foreign exchange. The SNAAD, however, was instrumental in creating a
dialogue in 1989 with the government that was directed towards establishing both the
case for trade reform and the appropriate mechanisms by which this could be
achieved;
ii)    the SNAAD itself rapidly highlighted the policy weaknesses with respect to trade
reform and focused attention on crucial priorities that needed to be addressed:
namely, the problem of donor untying and procurement and disbursement procedure
simplification, the central importance of a sustainable exchange rate, and the need for
an even flow of foreign exchange.
30.    From these perspectives, the SNAAD was highly successful and did, indeed, lay the
foundations for more appropriate trade reform policy in the later years of the TRC and in the
subsequent programs under the Economic Recovery Credit.



- 11 -
Box 1. The Evolution of the Foreign Exchange System
April 1989             SNAAD established under Ministerial Decree No 28/89
*   three product categories included (spare parts for cargo/collective transport; key imports for
garment industry; key imports for shoe industry).
* ceiling of $0.25m per quarter per enterprise.
October 1989           SNAAD (phase 1) becomes effective
*   automatic eligibility for selected products (spares for cargo/collective passenger transport and inputs
for garment and shoe industries).
*   utilizing funds of TRC.
*   ceilings of $0.25 m. per quarter per enterprise.
*   estimated budget of $22.7m proposed for first year.
May 1990               SNAAD (phase 11) commences: system enlarged and simplified.
*   expanded to two additional product categories (spare parts for construction and for agnculture
equipment).
*    providing enterprise is a registered importer, access to SNAAD by letter of intention alone.
*   ceilings for enterprise allocation eliminated.
October 1990           Secondary market established; spread between Official and Parallel rate peaks at 165 percent.
October 1991           SNAAD funding exhausted.
April 1992             SNAAD terminated.
Official and Secondary markets unified for all untied extemal aid and own exchange; spread between
Official and Parallel rates falls below 20 percent.
Special rate established for tied aid (8 percent discount). Export Retention Scheme terminated.
*   from April 1 to August 31, real effective rate falls by 25 percent, and spread between Secondary and
Parallel rates falls to 8 percent.
September 1992         Link between Official and Secondary markets severed.
*   by end-March 1993, Official and Secondary market spread rises to 9 percent.
*   by end-May 1993, Official and Parallel market spread rises to 42 percent.
May 1994               Special tied rate terminated.
Jue 1993               Official and Secondary markets re-unified.
*   Official rate devalued by 16.5 percent to equal Secondary rate (Mt 3,300 to $1).
*   Spread between Official and Parallel rates cut to 18 per cent by mid-June.
November 1993          *   Spread between Official and Parallel rates below 10 per cent.



- 12 -
The Reform of the Management of Public Expenditures
31.    The development of a more systematic approach to the management of public
expenditures accelerated significantly in the TRC period. Important progress was made in the
following areas:
(i)    the definition of a core program of expenditures that more tightly reflected the
sectoral and macro priorities of the ERP;
(ii)   the aligning of actual expenditures with those priorities laid out in the
expenditure objectives;
(iii)  the enhanced monitoring and recording of the implementation progress for
expenditure projects;
(iv)   the reclassification of expenditures within the budget accounting framework
more accurately to reflect their recurrent and capital cost content;
(v)    the redirection of finance towards the ongoing recurrent project costs,
particularly in the areas of health and education;
(vi)   a more systematic analysis of the revenue implications of capital projects;
(vii)   a tighter link between the investment program and the three year financial
plan.
32.    While progress in these many areas was sometimes uneven, the overall conclusion is
one of substantial progress towards the establishment of an expenditure program, geared to the
objectives of the reform program and with a much enhanced concern for the long-term
implications of the decision-making process. Unsurprisingly, this process is incomplete, but,
under the TRC, important steps were taken. Several key issues remain, including:
(i)    The integration of the expenditure program. Throughout the TRC period, the
most crucial problem was the difficulty of coordinating many distinct
expenditure initiatives. Some initiatives were recorded within the fiscal
accounting framework, while others were extra-budgetary; many were the
responsibility of different ministries; most were externally financed by
different donors and from different donor budgets; and, while most had a
distinct primary objective, there were many initiatives whose secondary
objectives overlapped with the primary objectives of other initiatives. In
consequence, there were substantive problems of coordination and policy
compatibility between expenditure initiatives, and major unresolved issues of
prioritization. The broad goal of the government was progressively to draw
all public expenditures into the PTIP rolling three year program, in which the
relative priorities of competing claims could be more appropriately judged.
In general, it could be argued that there remains a significant need to
accelerate progress in the integration of the expenditure programs. In
1992/93, for example, the National Reconstruction Program (PRN) and the
PTIP continued as essentially distinct expenditure programs, with little
systematic analysis of the inter-relationship. Most importantly, with



- 13 -
inadequate coordination, there was extensive blurring of the medium-term
developmental strategy and the emergency, short-term humanitarian objectives.
A much more tightly defined set of objectives and responsibilities for each
expenditure initiative - with all initiatives brought under the fiscal umbrella -
would have substantially alleviated the problem of expenditure overlap and
potential policy incompatibility;
(ii)    The orientation of the expenditure program to the ERP objectives. The
efficiency of the public expenditure program and, indeed, the effectiveness of
the ERP itself, would have been substantially advanced by an acceleration in
the process of aligning actual public expenditures with the priorities of the
ERP. While it must be acknowledged that reorienting an investment program
inevitably will be protracted in view of the lengthy project gestation periods, it
is clear that the donor community was slow to integrate the government's
objectives into their own assistance programs. Consequently, donors
continued to push for projects that were of lower priority than other projects
identified by the government. A clear lesson from the Mozambique
experience was, therefore, that Donor Coordination Groups should play a
much more central role in the government expenditure process. Specifically,
only by an effective and forceful presentation to the donor community on a
regular ongoing basis can the government expect to realign the priorities of the
donor community to support the sectoral and macroeconomic program.
Arguably, such Coordination Groups should be chaired at the highest level by
the Minister of Finance, supported, as necessary, by sectoral Ministers;
(iii)   Macroeconomic implications. As referred to elsewhere in this paper, one of
the important implications of an uncoordinated expenditure program has been
the partial recording of fiscal expenditures. In principal, the objective should
be the incorporation of all public expenditures into a single budgetary account,
albeit with different sub-programs coordinated at ministerial level.



- 14 -
Box 2. The Management of Public Expenditures
November 1990        Finalization of:
(i)  Plano Trienal de Investimento Publico (PTIP) for 1990-92.
*  compilation of inventory of all major projects.
* initial rationalization of program to meet objectives of ERP, and aim of emphasizing rural
rehabilitation and poverty.
*  of total investment in social sectors, agriculture, transport and rural development, 15
percent undertaken in rural areas.
*   incorporates review of on-going capital intensive projects.
(ii) Financial Plan for 1990-92
*   steps to reclassify 'investment' expenditures that correctly belong in recurrent expenditure
category.
May 1991             Finalization of second PTIP (1991-92)
*   recurrent expenditures:
(i) continues reclassification of recurrent costs from investment category to
recurrent category.
(ii)  increases recurrent expenditure in social sectors and rural development.
(iii) improves estimation of recurrent costs of investment program.
*  capital expenditures:
(i) emphasizes rehabilitation, rather than expansion of infrastructure.
(ii) better reflects the sectoral strategies.
(iii) further reduces large capital-intensive projects.
* 80 percent of PTIP investment directed at social sectors, agriculture, transport and rural
development: of which, one-third undertaken in rural areas.
March 1992           Finalization of third PTIP (1992-94)
*  further progress in rationalization of recurrent and capital expenditures (see areas
identified in May 1991).
*  continued reductions in number of projects and improvements in project quality.
*  established monitoring mechanism for execution of investment projects.
*  42.5 percent of PTIP investment directed to social sectors: 30 percent to rural
development.
June 1993            Finalization of fourth PTIP (1993-95)



- 15 -
The Reform of Price and Distribution Policy
33.    The reform of the pricing and distribution systems was rightly seen as a key element
in restoring the incentive structure in the domestic economy. Indeed, the government made
substantive steps over this period in both freeing product prices, making other product prices
subject to less rigorous control, and using more appropriate procedures for the determination
of fixed and minimum prices. In consequence, by 1993, only a very limited range of products
remained subject to the fixed pricing system and those products subject to the conditioned
price system were greatly reduced in number - indeed, it is doubtful if the condition price
system ever played a significant role in restricting the price setting behavior of enterprises.
34.    Although domestic prices had, therefore, been realigned with the international price
structure to a very considerable extent, there were several aspects of the marketing mechanism
that required increased attention. Primarily, it was clear that the effectiveness of the reform
program, in general, and of the efforts to enhance the incentive structure, in particular, were
seriously hampered by the failure to unite the official and unofficial product markets. This
failure stemmed from four clear factors:
(i)    the influx of emergency assistance, of which a large percentage was illegally finding
its way to the parallel markets;
(ii)   the increased flow of illegal imports from neighboring countries;
(iii)  the significant competitive advantage to be gained from the evasion of national
taxation; and
(iv)   the continuing - albeit much reduced - overvaluation of the meticais for much of the
period.
35.    These factors had not only a substantial impact on the incentive provided to domestic
producers and traders, but they also had major ramifications for the fiscal accounts - the tax
evasion in the parallel markets rendering domestic producers both uncompetitive and reducing
the revenue flow to the government. Addressing these problems should be a priority in the
coming years.
36.    With the coming of peace throughout the country, and the gradual re-establishment of
a national market, the importance of gaining a greater understanding of the local and regional
controls over pricing and distribution has taken on a greater importance. In some areas -
particularly those affected most severely by the drought of 1991/92 - intra-regional trade is
subject to few restrictions, but inter-regional trade has been more tightly constrained. The
reform program will now need to address the role of local government and its impact on trade
and economic activity, in general, with a view to intensifying the moves towards a more
market-based economy that have been initiated at the national level over the first few years of
the ERP.



- 16 -
Box 3. The Evolution of the Pricing System
January 1989           Minimum price system established for groundnuts, sunflower, mafurra, cashew, cotton,
copra, sorghum, beans and meat.
Continuing review of:
(i) fixed prices and minimum prices to reflect exchange rate changes and to facilitate
convergence with import parity prices;
(ii) need to maintain fixed prices;
(iii) effectiveness of minimum price system.
June 1990              Minimum price system extended to locally produced white maize. Yellow maize price
remains subsidized as part of safety net.
Fixed prices maintained for products that are strategic, very scarce, crucial Government
revenue sources, or subject to monopolistic forces.
Conditioned price changes only subject to ex post review in future; selected products freed
from controls.
Wheat, wheat flour, and bread continue to be subsidized.
Continuing reviews (see January 1989).
September 1990         Minimum price system extended to maize and rice.
1991                   Continuing review of system (see January 1989).
Role of AGRICOM restricted to wholesale and transport activities and buyer of last resort.
Fixed consumer prices now restricted to a few staples, utilities, fuels, rents and some
transport services.
Beer and tobacco moved from fixed to conditioned price list.
March 1992
A number of industrial products freed from price control.
Administered prices increased by between 30/40 percent to reduce divergence from import
October 1992           parity price (from 37 percent in October 1991 to 14 percent).
Rice, sugar, milk (consumer prices) and beef (producer price) moved from fixed to
March 1993             conditioned price list.
Conditioned price system restricted to only those goods subject to monopolistic
June 1993              conditions (tea, matches, batteries, cement, tires, coal): other product prices freed.
Improved efforts to disseminate information on minimum price system to rural areas.
1993                   Continuing reviews (see January 1989 above).



- 17 -
The Effectiveness of the National Customs System
37.    Throughout the period, macroeconomic policy made major progress towards the
unification of markets through the relaxation of pricing controls and through the adoption of
prices more closely linked to those prevailing on international markets. This process has
necessarily led to domestic industry facing increasingly intense international competition.
While the longer term efficiency gains from this competition should be substantial, domestic
industry has not been well placed to compete. Firstly, it had an extremely weak starting
position - notably with respect to obsolete production processes and grossly distorted financial
structures - but, in addition, substantial imports have continued to find access to the domestic
economy through parallel market channels. This has been attributable both to the
ineffectiveness and maladministration within the national customs system and to the
deficiencies of the fiscal system that has encouraged operations outside the formal markets.
Such imports have escaped both international trade taxes and the domestic transaction taxes,
with the consequence that they have enjoyed a substantial competitive advantage to the serious
detriment of domestic production. Without a much tighter administration of the borders of the
country, and an even-handed application of the tax regime, there will be a long-term adverse
impact on the fragile domestic economy.
Box 4. The Evolution of the Tariff Structure
1989       First phase in simplification of tariff rate structure: consolidation of categories and reduction in number
and range of rates. Conversion of specific rate tariffs to ad valorem basis. Strengthening of
administrative capacity of the Customs Administration.
Most tariff exemptions eliminated.
1990       Second phase of rationalizing tariff structure and rates.
Harmonized Tariff Nomenclature adopted.
1991       Tariff structure consolidated to six ad valorem rates, with a maximum rate of 35 percent.
1992       Effective tariff rate on imports subject to tariffs increased from 12 percent to 18 percent as
procedures/collection improves.
Enterprise Sector Reform
38.    Several lessons emerged from the experience of implementing reform in the enterprise
sector. In the early stages of the ERP, enterprise sector reform was focused on the
restructuring of the largest enterprises in order to enhance their productive capacity either
through rehabilitation or new investment. Inadequate attention was given to the sequencing of
the various elements of enterprise reform and the linkage between these elements.
Specifically:
(i)     the commercial and legal framework. Fundamental to the operation of a
market-based competitive system was the re-commercialization of economic
activity and, specifically, the enforcement of commercial contracts. Despite
the clear recognition of the distortions attributable to the lack of commercial
practice in the past, especially as reflected in the provision of credit and in the
accumulation of bad debt, too little attention was paid to the continuing



- 18 -
accumulation of bad debt within the productive enterprise sector and between
the productive and financial sectors. Moreover, the dominance of the state in
the ownership of both productive and financial enterprises implied that the
incentives to rectify this were very weak;
(ii)   the early emphasis on enterprise restructuring to improve productivity
embodied strong pre-suppositions regarding the long-term economic viability
of specific companies and of the appropriate structure for those companies. It
is arguable that, instead, the policy should have been directed at a more
market-based approach: with, firstly, a greater pressure for the transfer of
assets to private ownership - assisting the problem identified in (i) above and
leading to a more efficient investment and development path - and, secondly, a
more aggressive approach to the establishing of an enabling business
environment. More specifically, an accelerated withdrawal of state support,
together with an enforcement of contractual debt obligations, would have
compelled enterprises -and, notably, state enterprises - to adopt more decisive
strategies either for restructuring, securing private sector support (either
through joint ventures or privatization) or liquidation;
(iii)   in particular, the reform of the financial sector was both delayed and accorded
a lower priority than the proposed reform of the productive enterprise sector.
It is arguable that, had the reforms of the financial sector been initiated in
parallel with the productive sector reforms - with a more explicit recognition
of the crucial interlinkages - then the latter would have proceeded in a more
efficient manner within an appropriate market-based structure. Financial sector
reform initially focussed on the separation of the accounts and functions of the
central bank, together with the assumption by the Government of enterprise
bad debt. The former proved to be a protracted process and, while the
establishment of the commercial bank (BCM) and central bank (BOM) in early
1992 was a major step which created a clean balance sheet for BOM, it left
BCM with fundamental structural problems in urgent need of attention;
(iv)   enterprise subsidies. While important progress was made towards the
establishment of an appropriate interest rate policy and towards the elimination
of explicit budgetary subsidies to enterprises, implicit subsidies perpetuated the
operation of inviable enterprises. This subsidization was effected in two key
ways: firstly, by the Government through the maintenance of inappropriate
arrangements for the financing of counterpart fund payments by enterprises;
and, secondly, through the continued build-up of non-performing commercial
debt - and, notably, the continued lending to enterprises that already had non-
performing debts. These subsidies were inconsistent with the overall objective
of enterprises reform. A high priority should, therefore, be accorded to the
termination of ad hoc Government subsidies and to eliminating the continued
provision of bank credit to enterprises with non-performing debt;
(v)    the problem of aid absorption.  Mozambique made substantial progress towards
confining external assistance to that obtainable only on concessional terms, but there
remained a continuing problem of absorbing such large quantities of external aid while
maintaining one of the key elements of the reform process: namely, the establishment
of competitive enterprises without a long-term dependence on subsidized credit or



- 19 -
fiscal transfer. Fundamentally, too few enterprises - and, indeed, an increasing
number of enterprises - were commercially uncreditworthy, and, therefore, without
access to normal commercial lines of support. As a result, they were in no position to
find the counterpart funds with which to take advantage of the external assistance
granted to the country as a whole. In consequence, for the external aid to be
absorbed, various implicit forms of government subsidy were devised to facilitate the
continued operation of enterprises;
(vi)   targeting of enterprise subsidies. While the establishment of an environment -tailored
to the stimulation of enterprise development - should remain the top priority, there
may still be a need for enterprise subsidy on an highly selective and temporary basis.
As a result of the problem identified in (v) above, the government clearly needed to
adopt a more rigorous analysis of the enterprise sector in order to determine those
enterprises that were most likely to be viable over the long-term and were, therefore,
worthy of short-term transitional support. Only through such an approach could the
fiscal costs of a more generalized enterprise support and the broader economic ill-
effects of a subsidized system be averted. Certainly, any assistance of this nature
should be transparent and managed solely through the fiscal system.
Institutional Development.
39.    At the start of the TRC period, it was recognized that there were important
weaknesses in the institutional capacity of the country that required urgent attention.
Moreover, these weaknesses were better addressed through specific projects and programs that
had capacity building or technical assistance as their central focus. In consequence, a distinct
IDA technical assistance project was established at the time of TRC, the Economic and
Financial Management Technical Assistance Project. This was the first effort by IDA to
provide institutional support and it was focused on the two key ministries for the
implementation of the economic reform program: namely, the Ministry of Finance and the
Bank of Mozambique. The project's objectives were fourfold: firstly, to define specific
institutional needs and prepare programs of support for both the immediate and medium-term;
secondly, to undertake technical analysis in the area of economic policy formulation, capital
budgeting and banking; thirdly, to increase the stock of qualified professional staff,
particularly in the accounting and economic analysis fields; and, lastly, to enhance the
productivity and effectiveness of the two institutions with the provision of basic information
technology and information systems.
40.    This project, however, encountered serious implementation difficulties and was not
able to perform the originally intended function of providing parallel support to the structure
adjustment lending under the TRC. In addition, other support for institutional development
was rendered ineffective by the rapid pace of policy change. For example, IDA initially
supplied support for the rehabilitation of large enterprises, but it rapidly became clear that a
more radical policy of privatization would be necessary. In consequence, there was a need to
redefine the institutional role of UTRE (the body initially established to oversee rehabilitation).
This experience points firmly to the crucial role of defining capacity building programs in the
context of the evolving policy environment and on a timescale which allows the policy reform
to be effectively implemented.
41.    The second key institutional problem during the TRC period was the hemorrhaging of
trained, skilled personnel from the public sector, together with the related problems that were



- 20 -
caused by the opening up of very substantial pay differentials between the public and private
sectors and between those employed by national enterprises and those employed by
international agencies - notably, the donor community. In particular, pay differentials
encouraged the drift of the highest quality public sector staff, who typically had a broad range
of responsibilities in view of the relatively poor skills of their colleagues, to more highly paid
and more narrowly focused roles in the private or donor community sectors - notably, to
direct specific donor finance projects. In parallel with this trend was the related trend of
senior public servants moving to undertake study overseas or seek employment overseas.
42.    There is little doubt that these associated problems have been inadequately addressed
to date, and it is arguable that their impact on the manner and pace at which the policy reform
program has been implemented has been significant. For example, more attention to the
potential for less formal types of training would seem appropriate, particularly on-the-job
training within Mozambique. One attempt at alleviating the situation by the donor community
has been to provide technical assistance by ex-patriates on a substantial scale. While this has
certainly been invaluable in the short-term, the lack of attention to the training of local
counterparts has implied a relatively weak medium-term impact on the country's institutional
capacity.
The Impact of the Donor Community
43.    As noted earlier, a fundamental element of the government strategy has been the
mobilization of substantial external assistance to support the policy reform process. At the
most general level, this support was to finance crucial imports for the investment program, to
maintain the flow of spare parts and important inputs for industry, and to maintain the flow of
basic consumer incentive products - crucial to the restoration of rural production. However, it
also became apparent that the donor community exercised a more far reaching influence over
the shape of the policy reform program itself, notably with respect to:
(i)    trade reform. One of the key obstacles to the effective implementation of the SNAAD
was certainly the restrictive conditions attached to donor assistance. The success of the
SNAAD fundamentally depended on an even and adequate flow of exchange that could
be freely allocated according to market mechanisms. In the event, donor support was
neither even nor predictable and, while there were notable exceptions and a general
trend towards a less restrictive regime, donor conditionality (particularly the tying of
aid to particular products or particular product sources and particular procurement
rules) provided a major blockage. Indeed, as noted elsewhere, in these circumstances,
it was by no means clear how an equilibrium or market-determined exchange rate
should be set by the government;
(ii)   impact on domestic production incentives.  As was noted above, there has been a
serious detrimental impact on domestic production and trading incentives from the
very substantial inflow of illegal imports through the parallel markets. This problem
has been further exacerbated by the emergency programs of the donor community that
have provided both food and basic goods for consumption and production. While
intended for free distribution in many regions, these goods have been diverted to the
parallel markets on a significant scale, thereby undermining the local price structures
and deterring local production. Thus, there has been an urgent need both to control
more effectively the flows of humanitarian assistance and to maximize the local



- 21 -
sourcing of such products, and also to regulate more flexibly the inflow of such aid,
with supplies being rapidly cut back as the situation is alleviated;
(iii)   public expenditure reform. The government made impressive progress towards the
systematic collation and monitoring of the public expenditure program and towards
defining the priorities to be pursued in accord with the broader ERP. Nonetheless,
progress towards a more appropriate expenditure program was severely constrained by
the pressures of the donor community and by their preferences rather than those
defined by the ERP.



- 22 -
Table 2.: Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1986-93"
1986         1987           1988          1989          1990         1991         1992        1993
Real Growth
GDP Growth Rate (% pa)                   2.3         13.2            9.6           6.5           1.0          4.9         -0.8         19.1
Consunmtion per Capita                 -3.3          28.9            5.8           5.9         -2.8          -1.5         -5.2         15.3
(% pa)
Groass Investment "                      9.2         26.2           34.8          34.6         38.1          39.0        38.4          41.5
(% of GDP)
Domestic Savings                        -1. 1       -13.1          -17.1         -16.1        -11.7          -9.2       -13.4         -11.0
(% of GDP)
Fiscal Account (% of GDP)
Budgetary Revenues                      18.1         17.1           20.7          22.9         22.2          21.7        21.1          20.0
Govetrnent Expenditures                42.3          40.8           47.8          47.7         51.5          46.6        47.5          42.2
Current fisc  deficit                  -16.6         -6.2           -3. 1         -2.0         -3.3          -0.5         -3.1         -1.4
(% of GDP)
Overall Deficit before                 -24.2        -23.7          -27.1         -24.8        -29.2         -24.8       -26.3         -22.2
Grams
Overall Deficit after                  -21.0        -13.5          -12.7          -8.7        -12.3          -5.5         -5.5         -5.2
Grants
Bank financing of Budget                16.5          4.3            2.8           0.4           1.7         -0.7         2.2.           1.4
(% of GDP) 3
External Trade
Exporu (G&NFS) (% of GDP)               3.5          13.2           15.7          15.1         15.9          21.6        23.6          21.3
Export (G&NFS) (% pa) 3                 4.0          18.8            6.8           6.5          14.6         34.9         -1.8          2.7
Inports(% of GDP)                       14.3         52.6           67.6          65.8         65.7          69.8        75.5          73.8
Current Account Deficit
(% of GDP)
Befor Grants                          -15.1        -52.1           55.0         -57.3         -53.1        -51.5        -57.5         -55.8
After Grants                           -9.9        -29.2          -23.5         -28.2         -22.0        -16.5        -18.6         -21.6
Debt Service Ratio
Before debt relief                    247.5         227.5          190.6         178.4        162.3         134.2       144.5         133.2
After Debt relief                     247.5          20.9           37.2          24.2         27.5          16.2        21.2          30.4
Real Effective Exchange                22.2        -77.3             1.8          0.3          -0.5        -16.7         -6.1          0.8
Rate (% pa) I
Inflation (% pa) "                     38.7        163.3           50.1          42.1          49.2         33.2        45.1          43.5
Source: Government of Mozafbique and IMF (28 Junc 1993)
' Due to inadequacies in national accounts, estimates of investment and savings are distorted. The increase in ratios to GDP reflects the effects of major
exchange rate adjustment on the external components of investnent relative to a less rapid increase in domestic inflation and, therefore, GDP.
3 Estimated.
3 Investnent expenditures include about 20 percent of recurrent expenditures.
3 Negative values imply repayment.
" Current dollars.
v Negative values imply depreciation.
Annual average.



- 23 -
Progress of macroeconomic adjustnent.
44.   Throughout the first seven years of the ERP, exchange rate policy played a critical
role. Policy was driven not only by the broad aim of reintegrating the domestic economy in
the international environment, but also by the specific objective of establishing a more market-
based exchange rate which would be the crucial element in restoring an appropriate incentive
structure through the price mechanism. Following the major readjustment of the exchange
rate in 1987, which precipitated the fall in the ratio of the parallel exchange rate to the official
exchange rate from 40 to 2.2 during the year, there followed three years of comparatively
little adjustment in the real official exchange rate (Table 2). While the nominal exchange rate
was progressively and steadily depreciated over the three year period, 1988-90, this
adjustment process was only sufficient to-maintain a broadly constant real effective exchange
rate: in fact, in the three years, the real effective exchange rate appreciated by a little over
one percent. Consequently, the parallel rate premium over the official rate generally showed
an upward, if volatile, trend.
45.    The most marked progress in policy occurred with the introduction of the secondary
market in November 1990, following which the real effective exchange rate recorrnmenced its
depreciation. In consequence, the premium on the parallel market rate fell sharply from a
high of 165 percent in 1990 to less than 20 percent in April 1992, before reaching a low of
14 percent in August 1992. In the course of 1991-92, the real effective exchange rate
depreciated by over 22 percent. The second major policy step was the unification of the
official and secondary markets in April 1992. Although the unification was temporarily
suspended in September 1992, a unified rate was reinstated and maintained from June 1993.
46.   In 1987 and 1988, the fiscal adjustment was equally striking. In view of the major
role played by donor assistance, one of the primary policy targets was the degree of bank
financing provided to the fiscal budget. In 1986, this stood at 16.5 percent of GDP, and
having fallen sharply in the first two years of the ERP, the Government was able to reduce its
credit outstanding with the banking system between 1989 and 1992 (Table 2). The success of
this policy was a major factor in the progress towards reducing the growth rate of the
monetary aggregates. One of the key underlying reasons was the significant increase in
budgetary revenues, from 18.1 percent of GDP in 1986 to 20.7 percent in 1988 and,
subsequently, to 21 percent on average in 1992-93. This level of taxation is, however, high
even by international standards - and particularly as a proportion of marketed GDP - and,
while it reflects the concerted effort to maintain fiscal tightness, it clearly has implications for
the incentive structure. Over the TRC period, government expenditures averaged 47-48
percent of GDP. This level, however, exaggerates the real trend of government expenditures,
since there were substantial changes in the budgetary coverage over the period. Such
improvements in the accounting framework were an integral part of the government's policy
and determining the appropriate trend will inevitably be problematic until the budgetary cover
is stabilized. As is reflected in the trends in bank financing to the budget, the overall deficit
after grants showed an encouraging downward trend from a peak of 16.5 percent of GDP in
1986 to 1.4 percent of GDP in 1993.
47.    The Government had partial success in stabilizing the economy. The rate of inflation
decelerated from 163 percent in 1987 to 33 percent in 1991, in line with tighter fiscal and
monetary policies. In 1992, inflation accelerated and peaked at 55 percent in December,
mostly on account of the drought. Normal rainfall resumed in 1993, and efforts to eliminate
various financial leakages resulted in inflation declining to 43.5 percent by end-1993.



- 24 -
48.    Although inflation remains a concern, and budget deficits remain high, the trend over
the period since 1987 (after taking into account the severe external shocks in the 1990-1992
period) has been in the right direction. Further macroeconomic stabilization is obviously
required. However, an important source of macroeconomic instability, which has accounted
for the continued high (albeit declining) rates of inflation, stems from leakages in the banking
sector. "Other items" (mainly representing transitory accounts), are large and have been
growing rapidly in the banks. Although this represents inefficiencies in bank clearing
operations, the effect of not controlling these items is that there has been continued monetary
expansion -- and higher inflation than would be anticipated from other macroeconomic
indicators. Hence, strengthening the central bank and developing instruments of monetary
policy, forming a properly functioning financial sector, and continuing with privatization in
the enterprise sector, are seen as the next steps, in addressing the root causes of
macroeconomic instability.
49.    Throughout the life of the TRC, the adjustment framework has embodied a substantial
degree of macroeconomic disequilibrium. This, however, was explicitly recognized as an
important part of the overall reform program, in order to secure the restoration of sustainable
economic growth and, thus, the re-establishment of macroeconomic balance over the medium
to long-term. Consequently, there was no expectation that there would be substantial
reductions in the macroeconomic imbalances in the early years of the adjustment. As Table 3
reflects, this has indeed been the case.
Table 3: Evolution of Macroeconomic Balances (% of GDP)
1988        1989         1990         1991         1992         1993
Actual outturn:
National Savings       -20.2        -22.7        -15.0         -12.5        -19.3       -14.3
Gross Investment        34.8         34.6         38.1         39.0         38.4         41.5
External Savings        55.0         57.3         53.1         51.5         57.5         55.8
Memo:
Government Savings      -3.1         -2.0         -3.3         -0.5         -3.1         -1.4
Note: External savings exclude unrequited official transfers, as, therefore, do national savings.
Source:   IMF (Staff Report, 28 June 1993)
TRC (President's Report, 24 April 1989)
50.    While external savings initially showed a fall in the 1989/91 period, they subsequently
increased to 57.5 percent of GDP in 1992 and 55.8 percent of GDP in 1993. Again, there
were two important factors explaining this apparent deterioration: firstly, all ratios to GDP
have been severely affected by the impact of devaluation on the dollar-equivalent GDP
measures and, consequently, exaggerate any such trend; and, secondly, in 1992 and,
especially, in 1993, the aid and import flows were severely affected by exceptional factors -
notably, the assistance to alleviate the impact of the 1991/92 drought and the exceptional
financing of the peace-related programs (the demobilization, the resettlement and the
elections).



- 25 -
51.   While trends in national savings reflect these various factors, it is notable that, with
the government running relatively small current deficits over the 1988-93 period, the vast
majority of the national dis-savings is attributable to the public enterprise and private
enterprise sectors.
52.    Without a stable inter-temporal basis of comparison, largely attributable to changing
degrees of coverage in the recorded accounts and the impact of exceptional exogenous events,
it is difficult to draw conclusions about progress towards greater macroeconomic balance.
Nonetheless, it is apparent that, to date, the adjustment has been small, as was originally
envisaged in the early years of the ERP period.
The Implementation of Macroeconomic Policy Adjustment
53.   The overall macroeconomic adjustment program of the government has been widely
supported by the IMF, World Bank and the rest of the donor community, and it has been
broadly effective in meeting its objectives. Moreover, the government has maintained a
consistent and systematic approach to the implementation of the strategy. There are, however,
important lessons from the 1987-93 period that will need to be addressed in the medium-term:
(i)    long-term dependencv on external aid flows carries with it great dangers in that not
only is domestic growth vulnerable to the inevitable variability in international donor
assistance flows but, as has been mentioned elsewhere, the problems of aid
dependency in the local economy are not insignificant. As the sudden collapse of the
Eastern European support programs clearly illustrated, major disruption can result
from the sudden withdrawal of international support. Nonetheless, it is equally
apparent that, with the concerted and dedicated approach of the government being
sustained over many years, the donor community has responded positively and
maintained the required aid flow;
(ii)   in view of the importance of maintaining the incentive structure, there are serious
limits to the increasing of the tax burden in the domestic economy. Revenues already
account for a substantial proportion of GDP in comparison with most other developing
countries, and the policy priority must now be to widen the tax base through the
improvement of collection and administration procedures. Specifically, further
progress towards unification of the parallel and official markets should be seen as the
main route towards enhancing revenues: simplification of the system and the
elimination of discrimination within the system - as is implied by the current
circulation tax - should be pursued;
(iii)   while the government strategy appropriately focused on the maintenance of domestic
consumption and investment through the mobilization of external support, there will be
a continuing need to ensure that the utilization of such funds is undertaken efficiently.
These aspects are referred to elsewhere;
(iv)   the restoration of external balance. While external imbalances and external aid flows
are both a necessary element of the government strategy, there is a concern that the
fundamental basis for restoring balance is very weak. In particular, export revenues -
which must, in time, be the key to reduced aid dependence - have responded only
weakly, and, while they are considerably improved from the trough of $77 million in
1985, the 1993 projection of U$132 million remains at less than 58 percent of the



- 26 -
1982 value. Moreover, export revenues from both goods and services stand at a
projected level of only 24 percent of total foreign exchange inflows in 1993. Clearly,
therefore, there is a pressing need to promote further exports as the post-war recovery
of production becomes firmly established.
Poverty and Recent Social Developments
54.    The combination of inappropriate socio-economic policies in the 1980s, the drought,
and increased rural insecurity, forced most rural households to migrate to urban areas or
neighboring countries. Their resettlement constitutes an enormous challenge. Addressing this
problem has been made difficult by severe skill shortages inherited from the colonial era (out
of an estimated labor force of six million, only 2,500 Mozambicans have university level
qualifications), as well as the lack of effective maintenance of existing service networks.
55.   In recognition of the social problems faced by Mozambique, the Government
incorporated poverty reduction objectives into its adjustment program and renamed it the
Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program (ESRP). The strategy incorporates four
elements: (i) improving the quality of social services (education and health) in urban areas,
and restoring basic social services in rural areas; (ii) providing humanitarian assistance (free
food aid) to vulnerable households in rural areas; (iii) establishing a safety net by providing
direct income transfers to targeted urban household; and (iv) most recently, providing support
(seeds and tools) to enable displaced households to resume agricultural production in rural
areas. As this aid was delivered by a variety of aid agencies, including NGOs, it has not been
incorporated into the Government budget, which has resulted in a fragmentation of assistance
and lack of coordination with the Government's own programs.
56.   While little data are available, some health indicators prepared by UNICEF show
improvements, such as the infant mortality rate in Maputo declining from 84 per 1,000 live
births in 1987 to 73 per 1,000 in 1992, and the maternal mortality rate from 260-300 per
100,000 live births in 1987 to 180 in 1990. A factor in the improvement has been the
increase in social sector expenditures, which reversed the decline experienced in the early
1980s. The share of education and health in the recurrent budget rose from 19 percent in
1990 to 21 percent in 1992, and about 60,000 poor households are now covered by a direct
income transfer scheme. This policy was made possible by the increased mobilization of
counterpart funds by the budget, which increased budgetary resources.
57.   Nevertheless, poverty remains deep and widespread. Wages for urban unskilled
workers have fallen below the absolute poverty level, a problem that cannot be addressed
through targeted poverty alleviation measures alone. What is required above all is resumption
of growth, support for the ongoing large scale resettlement of households in rural areas, which
will reduce excess labor in urban areas and downward pressure on wages.
58.   The extraordinary scope of poverty in Mozambique has important implications for the
pace of reform in the productive sectors; thus drastic policy action resulting in closing down a
significant number of enterprises would have a massive impact on unemployment in the urban
areas and, given the lack of alternative employment in the cities, would have significant
repercussions both on the political transition to democracy and on the smooth implementation
of the demobilization.



- 27 -
Utilization of the Third Rehabilitation Credit
59.    Upon becoming effective in March 1989, the TRC initially disbursed only slowly:
this was attributable in part to the ongoing disbursements from the SRC and, in addition, to
the initial difficulties associated with the establishment of the SNAAD. Nonetheless, although
the TRC financed imports of only US$22 million in 1989, the disbursement accelerated
rapidly in 1990, with the IDA credit financing imports valued at US$40 million.
Disbursements continued through 1991 to 1993, but at a much reduced level.
60.    As Figure 1 reflects, almost 40 percent of the TRC was devoted to the import of
intermediate goods (excluding chemicals and spare parts), and almost 30 percent to the import
of capital goods. Consumer goods and spare parts accounted for 17 percent and 10 percent,
respectively, of imports financed through the TRC. This allocation of the TRC does not
reflect any pre-determined preference in the IDA program, but, rather, reflects the flexibility
possible in the utilization of IDA funds compared to the more tightly tied external assistance
from alternative sources.
61.    The trend in the allocation of the TRC by beneficiary over the life of the program
reflects, in part, the changing priorities of the government and the emphasis of the ERP.
Initially, allocations to the public enterprises exceeded, or were relatively little less than the
allocations to private enterprises, but, progressively over the period, allocations to the private
enterprise sector came to dominate. For the TRC in aggregate, allocations to the private
enterprise sector accounted for 52.7 percent of total disbursements, with 37.5 percent being
allocated to public enterprises and 9.7 percent being allocated directly to government
ministries.
Assessment of Risk
62.    At the time of appraisal (President's Report of April 24, 1989), two primary risks
were identified as being most critical to the successful implementation of the Economic
Rehabilitation Program, in general, and the TRC, in particular:
(i)    the constraining impact of the ongoing security situation; and
(ii)   the administrative weaknesses in key economic institutions.
63.    This was an accurate assessment, as both factors dominated both the implementation
and responsiveness of the economy to the policy reforms. However, it was apparent ex post
that other risks were important and not fully appreciated at the time of appraisal, and these are
highlighted in section D below. Nonetheless, it is clear that, despite these substantial risks to
the program, the TRC was successful in achieving the intended impact.
Overall Progress in Reform
64.    Mozambique has implemented a difficult adjustment program in extraordinarily
adverse circumstances, and with extremely limited institutional capacity. Major price
distortions have been eliminated; production, marketing, and internal trade have been largely
liberalized; and a basic framework for private sector development has been put in place.
There has also been significant progress on stabilization, enterprise reform, financial sector
development and fiscal reform, but because all these areas require institutional change and



- 28 -
capacity growth rather than mere stroke-of-the-pen measures, much remains to be done. In
addition, Mozambique is still highly dependent on aid -- both financial and technical
assistance. What is needed now is to revive production disrupted by the war in order to
reduce aid dependency and enhance the sustainability of reforms, and to strengthen
institutional capacity to manage the economy.



IMPORTS 1-INANCED TI-IROUGI-I TI-IE TI-IIRD REI-IABILITATION CREDITI
By Type o f Impor-t
(2.9%) Cheiciilals
(39.3%) Otlici- intelmediate goods                        1 72   Colisumlilcl- good(s
(10.7%) Spare parts                  (29.9%) Capital goods
Source: Government of Mozambique



IMPORTS FINANCED Tl-IROUGI-I TI-IE TI-IIRD REI-IABILITATION CREDIT
By Type of Recipient.
(52.7%) Pirivate enterprises
(9. 7/o) Govei-rinimcit
(37.5%) Public enterprises
SouLrce: Government of Mozambique.



- 31 -
D. LESSONS LEARNED FOR SUBSEQUENT ADJUSTMENT PROGRAMS
The Reform of the Foreign Exchange System
65.    Several lessons from the initial attempt to establish a market-based foreign exchange
mechanism are apparent:
(i)    real eguilibrium exchange rate. There was a primary pre-requisite for an appropriate
equilibrium exchange rate to be established. Throughout the SNAAD period, this
condition was not fulfilled, although there were certainly additional problems
attributable to the uneven and unpredictable flow of available foreign exchange. The
avoidance of an inherent tendency to excess demand and a return to centralized
administrative allocation was seen, therefore, to depend on an appropriate exchange
rate;
(ii)   sources of foreign exchange. The setting of an appropriate equilibrium exchange rate
and the maintenance of a market system that is relatively small and selective depends
on an even flow of exchange. The lesson is that the adoption of such a limited degree
of market allocation is too problematic and a faster move to liberalization would avoid
these problems. The more recent experience of the secondary market would tend to
support this latter conclusion. There is additionally a need for donors to respond
rapidly in the provision of more flexible sources of funds - both with regard to the
source of products and the procurement rules that were specified;
(iii)   credibility of the system. The integrity of the system decayed rapidly as the
publicized regulations and conditions for eligibility were set aside. Maintaining such a
system depends fundamentally on a rigorous adherence to the declared regulations in
order to maintain confidence;
(iv)   dialogue with the Government.  Even though the SNAAD may have been
unsuccessful in many respects, it played a valuable role in the policy dialogue. In this
respect, even a modest policy step was shown to be highly beneficial in highlighting
the key priorities that needed to be addressed in order to accelerate the trade reform
process.
The Reform of the Management of Public Expenditures
66.    The experience of reform suggests several important lessons in this regard:
(i)   the integration of the expenditure program.  The proliferation of the sources of
budgetary assistance required an accelerated program of coordination and prioritization
in order to align better the expenditure program with the objectives of the ERP. A
much more tightly defined set of objectives and responsibilities for each expenditure
initiative - with all initiatives brought under the fiscal umbrella - would have
substantially alleviated the problem of expenditure overlap and potential policy
incompatibility;
(ii)   the orientation of the program.  A clear lesson from the Mozambique experience was
that Donor Coordination Groups should play a much more central role in the



- 32 -
government expenditure process. Specifically, only by an effective and forceful
presentation to the donor community on a regular ongoing basis can the government
expect to realign the priorities of the donor community to support the sectoral and
macroeconomic program. Arguably, such Coordination Groups should be chaired at
the highest level by the Minister of Finance, supported, as necessary, by sectoral
Ministers;
(iii)   macroeconomic Policy.  Macroeconomic policy-making was severely hampered by
the inaccuracy and underrecording of the true degree of Government expenditure. A
comprehensive coverage of all expenditures within the official budgetary framework is
an essential pre-requisite for informed fiscal policy formulation.
The Reform of Price and Distribution Policy
67.    While, in general, the reform process in this regard has been effective, the failure to
unite the parallel and official product markets did seriously hamper the development of the
incentive structure. There is a clear lesson that unification should be accorded a high priority
in four respects:
(i)    the influx of emergency assistance, of which a large percentage was illegally finding
its way to the parallel markets, should be much more tightly controlled;
(ii)   the flow of illegal imports from neighboring countries should be stemmed;
(iii)  the competitiveness of domestically produced products should be safeguarded by the
imposition of equal tax burdens on domestically and imported products;
(iv)   the overvaluation of the domestic currency should have been more rapidly eliminated.
68.   In addition, it has now emerged more clearly that the reform process undertaken by
the central Government should be complemented by similar policy reform at the provincial and
district levels. To the extent that policy is directed at these lower levels, it is important that
the same market-based approach reinforces the central reform program.
Enterprise Sector Reform
(i)    the commercial and legal framework. In retrospect, the process of enterprise reform
would have been greatly accelerated by a more comprehensive re-commercialization of
economic activity and, specifically, the enforcement of commercial contracts. Too
little attention was paid to the continuing accumulation of such debt within the
productive enterprise sector and between the productive and financial sectors.
Moreover, a stronger move towards reducing the dominance of the state in the
ownership of both productive and financial enterprises would have provided the
incentives to rectify these problems;
(ii)   enterprise restructuring.  Policy should have been directed at a more market-based
approach: with, firstly, a greater pressure for the transfer of assets to private
ownership and, secondly, a more aggressive approach to the establishing of an
enabling business environment. More specifically, an accelerated withdrawal of state
support, together with an enforcement of contractual debt obligations, would have



- 33 -
compelled enterprises -and, notably, state enterprises - to adopt more decisive
strategies either for restructuring, securing private sector support (either through joint
ventures or privatization) or liquidation;
(iii)   financial sector.  It is arguable that, had the reforms of the financial sector been
initiated in parallel with the productive sector reforms - with a more explicit
recognition of the crucial interlinkages - then the latter would have proceeded in a
more efficient manner within an appropriate market-based structure;
(iv)    enterprise subsidies.  A high priority should be accorded to the termination of ad hoc
Government subsidies and to eliminating the continued provision of bank credit to
enterprises with non-performing debt;
(vi)   targeting of enterprise subsidies. In view of the widespread uncreditworthiness in the
enterprise sector, the government clearly needed to adopt a more rigorous analysis of
the sector in order to determine those enterprises that were most likely to be viable
over the long-term and were, therefore, worthy of short-term transitional support.
Only through such an approach could the fiscal costs of a more generalized enterprise
support and the broader economic ill-effects of a subsidized system be averted.
Certainly, any assistance of this nature should be transparent and managed solely
through the fiscal system.
The Impact of the Donor Community
(i)    trade reform. One of the contributing factors to the lack of success of the
Government's first efforts to pursue trade reform was the inflexibility of donor
assistance. The experience highlighted the importance of securing even and
predictable flow of donor aid in order to design appropriate policy, and the importance
of eliminating the tying of aid to specific products or product sources or procurement
rules;
(ii)   impact on domestic production incentives.   There is an urgent need both to control
more effectively the flows of humanitarian assistance - to curb the illegal diversion of
aid; to maximize the local sourcing of such products; and to regulate more flexibly the
inflow of such aid, with supplies being rapidly cut back as the situation is alleviated;
(iii)   public expenditure reform. Progress towards a more appropriate expenditure program
was severely constrained by the pressures of the donor community and by their
preferences rather than those defined by the ERP. As noted above, the Donor
Coordination Groups might have played a more dominant role in accelerating the
transformation in this respect.



- 34 -
E. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
Compliance with Credit Agreement
69.   Conditionality for release of the Credit's second tranche is described in Annex 1. The
first formal supervision in June 1990 reported that the Government was making good progress
in implementing the overall program of economic reform described in the Letter of
Development Policy dated March 17, 1989. The mission also found that the Government had
made significant progress on the issues of the foreign exchange allocation system (SNAAD),
tariff rationalization and simplification, and agricultural pricing reform. But release of the
second tranche was approved a few months after the mission return, on November 20, 1990,
upon the Government's submission to IDA of the three-year investment program's final
version, and the three-year Financial and Action Plans for capital intensive projects.
Disbursements
70.   The IDA credit in the amount of SDR 68.2 million was to be released in two
tranches and disbursed over a two-year period. At the time of appraisal it was expected that
the credit would be fully disbursed by the end of FY91. Actual disbursement figures show
that at the start of FY91, about 93 percent of the credit proceeds had been disbursed. But,
from then on disbursements lagged, and when the credit closed a relatively small balance still
remained. As in the Second Rehabilitation Credit, the extremely slow utilization of credit
and grants' funds was caused by some of the same reasons:
Many prospective local importers lacked the necessary counterpart funds
needed to obtain import licenses, and as guarantee to open letters of credit.
*     Letters of credit accounted for a long process, from opening to negotiating
them, an average of three to six months. This in turn often delayed the
submission of the documentation required by the World Bank. As most letters
of credit were being drawn against the special accounts, funds were tied up
for at times long periods, in turn preventing the timely replenishment of the
accounts. In addition this caused a temporary lack of funds to finance new
imports.
The limited capacity, throughout implementation, of Bank of Mozambique
(BOM) to process documents. This is being now addressed by technical
advisors in BOM, who will assist in improving the management of foreign
exchange.
Lack of coordination between the Bank of Mozambique, as the interlocutor of
IDA in administering disbursements, and the Bureau for Coordination of
Imports Program (GCPI) in the Ministry of Commerce which, as the executor
in the utilization of funds to be disbursed, issues the import licenses and
oversees procurement procedures. This situation has improved in the last
year.
71.    The closing date was extended three times. In April 1991, when the closing date was
extended for the first time, further credit cofinancing was being sought, in view of a severe



- 35 -
shortage of foreign exchange that the Government was facing at the time. The reason for the
other two extensions resulted from the need to complete the utilization of funds under the
credit and cofinanciers. In August 1993, a decision was made by IDA to exceptionally extend
the closing date to April 30, 1994, although no disbursements for expenditures incurred after
August 31, 1993 would be made. This decision resulted from the desire to leave the credit
open pending resolution of audit and accounting issues.
Audits
72.   Audits, as required in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), were not submitted
on a timely basis. Because of the number of overdue audit reports for IDA projects, the Bank
of Mozambique hired an independent consulting firm of auditors to do all outstanding and
future audits.
73.   The audits for 1990 and 1991 identified possible irregularities in the utilization of
funds under the credit accounts, mainly due to missing documentation which Bank of
Mozambique staff was unable to locate. The Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), a follow-on
to the TRC, addressed this situation, and conditions of its second tranche release included the
(a) completion and submission by BOM, as implementing agency, of "a progress report on its
financial management action plan, in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between
the Borrower and the Association", and (b) hiring an independent firm of consultants to do a
comprehensive review of the 1990 and 1991 accounts of the TRC.
74.   As agreed with IDA, an external audit firm was hired to review every item of
apparently irregular procurement described in the audit reports of the 1990 accounts of the
TRC and associated financing. The progress report was reviewed by IDA and showed that all
funds had been disbursed in accordance with World Bank guidelines.
75.   A comprehensive review of all missing documentation mentioned in the 1991 audits of
the TRC was done by an independent consulting firm. This review was submitted to IDA and
was considered fully acceptable. The review found that there about eleven cases of missing
documentation. For these cases remedies have been agreed on with Government to substitute
documentation corresponding to imports financed by the Foreign Exchange Reserves (Fundo
Cambial) of BOM.
76.   Steps have been taken to improve the management of funds used in the import support
program. The department in charge has been reorganized and technical assistance has been
provided. Improvements have already been noted and the 1992 audits for the TRC and
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) were received and found acceptable to IDA.
Procurement
77.   Procurement was limited to eligible imports on the basis of a negative list in
Schedule I of the DCA, in accordance with IDA guidelines and Schedule 2 of the DCA,
under which contracts for purchases of US$2.0 million equivalent and above were to be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB). With one exception, the other
cofinanciers adopted the same ICB threshold.
78.   Although procurement guidelines of IDA and donors were no longer new to GCPI,
and attempts at simplifying them were made during a multi-donor (including IDA) mission to



- 36 -
review procurement and disbursement in adjustment operations, they were considered
complicated and time-consuming by most enterprises benefiting from the imports program.
As noted under the previous adjustment credit, these enterprises were not familiar with the use
of technical specification in procuring certain goods, being accustomed to buying directly from
traditional suppliers.
F. BANK SUPERVISION
79.   The first supervision mission, in June 1990, reviewed compliance of conditions for
second tranche release. In the following years the missions looked into the issues related to
procurement and disbursements, and delays in the submission of audits. Supervision and
assistance on these issues was also provided on continuing basis by staff at the Resident
Mission.



- 37 -
ANNEX I
COMPLIANCE WITH COVENANTS
(For Release of Second Tranche)
COVENANTS                                                      ACTION TAKEN
A    FOREIGN EXCHANGE
Enact the legal and administrative instruments approving the    Legally established in April 1989 by Ministerial Decree No. 28/89.
SNAAD.
Review the results of the first year of implementation of the   Reviewed In June 1990 and September 1990 with IDA missions.
SNAAD in conjunction with IDA.
Reach agreement with IDA on the phasing of:
(i)        the dismantling ofthe first year safeguards to  Ceilings on allocations per quarter per enterprise dismantled in
be undertaken in second year of SNAAD;         May 1990.
and
(ii)       the expansion of the product groups to be       Expanded to include two additional product categories (spare
included in the SNAAD.                         parts for construction equipment and for agricultural equipment)
in May 1990.
B    PUBLIC EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
Make satisfactory progress in review of the Public Expenditure  Review satisfactorily completed with finalization of first 3-year
Program in accordance with agreed principlesand objectives (see  PTIP in November 1990. Some initial difficulties in determination
Letter of Development Policy [paragraphs 23-241), including:    of appropriate program, but substantive progress nonetheless.
Continuing concems regarding overall size, financing,
(i)        the completion of the three-year investment    implementation and phasing to be further addressed.
program for core development projects
(FY1990-92);
(ii)       the completion of the three-year financial      Financial Plan completed in conjunction with PTIP.
plan; and
(iii)      the completion of the review of on-going        Review completed, although its analysis and recommendations
capital intensive projects, and of an action   not fully reflected in first PTIP. Further plans to reallocate
plan to prioritise these projects, approved by  expenditure resources to prioritized projects in accord with ERP
IDA.                                           and sectonl programns In hand.
C    PRICING
Implement the minimum price system forthe following agricultural  Implemented as planned, and extended to incorporate sorghum,
products:  copra, cotton, cashew, groundnuts, mafurra and       beans, meat and locally produced white maize.
sunflower.
Complete the reviews ofthe implementation ofthe minimum price   Reviewed by Govemment In conjunction with broader pricing
system.                                                         reform.
Adjust fixed prices for agricultural products to take account of  Prices adjusted regularly to reflect changes In border prices and
adjustments in the exchange rate and intemational border prices,  to attain appropriate realignment.
D    TARIFF SYSTEM
Complete the review of the tariff system.                       Completed as planned and recommendations implemented.
Agree with IDA the measures for the simplification of the tariff  Structure of tariff rates simplffied in 1989 (exemptions largely
system to be implemented in FY1990.                             eliminated and specific rates transformed to ad valorem basis).



- 38 -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
THIRD REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Credit 2021-MOZ)
PART II - REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE8'
Introduction
80.   In line with the Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) objectives at the time, a
Credit Agreement in the amount of SDR 68.2 million was signed on May 18, 1989, between
the International Development Association (IDA) and the Government of Mozambique.
81.   The table below shows other cofinancing under this credit:
Country         Currency Unit         Amount
l _________________  ____________________  (M illion)
United Kingdom          Pound              12.5
Norway              Krone              55.0
Finland            Markka              40.0
Switzerland           Franc             20.0
Germany          Deutsche Mark         20.0
The initial closing date of the credit, April 30, 1991, was extended to August 31, 1993 and
later to April 30, 1994, in accordance with World Bank telex of August 30, 1993.
Program Objectives
82.   The Program's main objectives were:
*     to provide support to the ERP's third year;
*     to formulate trade policies and the revision of the tariff structure;
*     to create a non-administrative system for allocation of foreign exchange;
This is a summary translation, from the Portuguese, of the Governent's submission



- 39 -
*     to improve and control Public Expenditures;
*     to facilitate rapid credit distribution to all sectors of the economy, in order to
increase production and productivity;
*     to increase administrative capacity in the economy's key sector in terms of
efficiency and creating conditions for the return of higher levels of economic
growth;
*      to revert the situation of decrease in production by creating conditions for
stable and sustainable economic growth, and guaranteeing level of minimum
consumption to the population, especially in the rural areas;
*      to substantially reduce internal financial imbalances and strengthen external
accounts and reserves;
*      to reestablish financial relations with trade partners and donors;
to permit that official exchange rate reflected market developments, thus
reducing the spread between the official and the parallel exchange rate;
to improve the price system to reflect internal market conditions in the context
of the international market.
83.   It should be noted that there was an awareness of constraints in the country regarding
technical and administrative problems, weak management capacity and use of the national
assets, and the progressive increase in social costs.
Program Execution
84.    Program implementation started as soon as funds became available, with major
involvement of staff from Bank of Mozambique, then operating as a commercial and central
bank, the Ministry of Commerce through GCPI (Bureau for Coordination of Import
Programs), the Ministry of Finance, and the enterprises benefitting from the credit.
85.    The percentage utilization of the Third Rehabilitation Credit (TRC) funds by region is
indicated in the following table.
Region         Credit utilization
North                         2%
Center                        8%
South                        90%
86.   It should be noted, however, that the distribution of funds under this credit was
concentrated in the main cities of the three regions: Nampula (North), Sofala (Center), and
Maputo (South).



- 40 -
87.   In the future the Bank of Mozambique, as administrator of funds, will establish
mechanisms to permit quicker access to the funds by all economic agents in the country.
88.   Although the credit has closed, almost the total amount of funds was absorbed by the
economy.
89.   Of the total credit amount about 43 percent was used for imports of raw material, 30
percent for the import of capital goods (equipment), 17 percent for the import of consumer
goods, and 10 percent for the import of spare parts, as shown in the graph below.
Third Rehabilitation Crdit
Utiliztion Percentages
100/                                    raw naterials
17%                   43%                 D  capital goods
=  consumer goods
U  spare parts
300/a                               L
Disbursements
90.    Some delays in disbursement were attributed, especially in the beginning, to the fact
that many importers lacked the counterpart funds needed to obtain import licenses.
91.   As for following World Bank guidelines the staff at Bank of Mozambique and GCPI
did not experience any difficulties, since they had been responsible for the previous adjustment
credits (First and Second).
92.   In general, the program objectives were met, in spite of the lack of security and
natural disasters in the country during the life of the credit.
93.   We consider of importance the role of the World Bank in mobilizing external
resources for the country, through cofinancing of the TRC.
94.   In addition, one should not overlook the importance of the funds under the TRC for
providing external resources to the economy, especially in enabling the Central Bank to
intervene in foreign exchange market, in order to stabilize the exchange rate and reduce the
gap between the official and parallel exchange rates.



- 41 -
Some Considerations and Recommendations
95.    Various extensions of the closing date and delays in the funds utilization were the
result of:
*     difficulties in gathering the documentation needed for submission of special
account replenishment applications;
*     withdrawals of import license requests by some importers that could not obtain
counterpart funds, so that funds had to be reallocated to other firms;
*     some economic agents not being familiar with World Bank procedures; and
*     the World Bank conditions for tranche release.
96.    The World Bank could improve the process of tranche release to permit a regular flow
of funds to the economy.
97.   In view of the above, we suggest a reduction in conditionality for the purpose of
accelerating funds availability (tranche release).
98.    During peacetime all efforts will be devoted to improve ways to reach the rural sector,
in order to rehabilitate the rural commerce network, through family-based agriculture
production.



- 42 -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIOUE
THIRD REHABILITATION CREDIT
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
As of: February 1994
SDR Million
Credit     Original    Actual
Number      amount   Amount Disbursed         Cancelled    Repaid  Outstanding
2021-MOZ        68.2      68.2        67.4             0         0         67.4
I. Program Timetable
Original Date           Actual Date
Initiating Memorandum                             6/9/88                 6/9/88
Appraisal
Letter of Development Policy                     3/17/89                3/17/89
Negotiations
Board Approval                                   5/18/89                5/18/89
Credit Agreement                                 6/12/89                6/12/89
Effectiveness                                     8/4/89                 8/4/89
Second Tranche Release                            8/4/90               11/20/90
Credit Closing                                   4/30/91                4/30/94
II. Mission Dates
No. of                   Staff
Date     Weeks        Persons     weeks Report Date
Preparation
Appraisal
Supervision               6/90           2             3         6       7/7/90
Supervision               9/91         0.5             1       0.5      9/10/91
Supervision               7/92           1             1         1      8/24/92
Supervision               2/93         0.5             1       0.5       3/5/93
III. Cummulative Credit Disbursements (SDR Million)
FY90          FY91      FY92         FY93      FY94
Appraisal Estimate                    34.1          68.2      68.2         68.2      68.2
Actual                                21.2          63.7        66         67.3      67.4
% of Actual Vs. Estimate              62%           93%       97%          99%       99%
% of Actual Vs. Total                 31%           93%       97%          99%       99%
IV. Follow-On Adjustment Operations
Mozambique - Economic Recovery, Credit No. 2384-MOZ
Approved on June 11, 192 in the amount of 132.0 SDR MMillion (US$180.0 million equivalent)



