Page  1
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2021 MOZ
                       Development Credit Agreement
                       (Third Rehabilitation Credit)
                                  between
                      PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated June 12, 1989
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2021 MOZ
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter of development
policy dated March 17, 1989 (LDP) from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment
of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently needed imports
and services required during such execution;
      (B)   The Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of the Swiss
Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimburseable contribution in an amount
of twenty million Swiss Francs (SwF 20,000,000) (the Swiss Contribution) to
assist in the financing of the Program on the terms and conditions set forth
in a bilateral agreement (the Swiss Contribution Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and Switzerland;
      (C)   Switzerland intends to appoint the Association to administer the
Swiss Contribution in accordance with the provisions of the Procedural
Arrangements, dated April 9, 1987, between Switzerland and the Association;
      (D)   The Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of Finland
Development Agency (FINNIDA) a credit in an amount of forty million Finnish
Marks (FMKs 40,000,000) (the FINNIDA Credit) to assist in the financing of
the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in a bilateral agreement
(the FINNIDA Credit Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
FINNIDA;
      (E)   The Borrower intends to obtain from the United Kingdom (ODA) a
grant in an amount of ten million Pounds Sterling (L Stg 10,000,000 (the ODA
Grant) to assist in the financing of the Program on the terms and conditions
set forth in a bilateral agreement (the ODA Grant Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and ODA;
      (F)   The Borrower intends to obtain from the Federal Republic of
Germany through Kreditsantalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) a grant in an amount
Page  2
of twenty million Deutsche Marks (MKs 20,000,000) to assist in the financing
of the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in a bilateral
agreement (the KfW Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and KfW;
      (G)   The Borrower intends to request additional financing from other
donors in support of the Program; and
      (H)   On the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has
decided, in support of the Program, to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be
      financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions
      of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
      later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
      the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
      Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
      Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program
      referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective
      obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
      accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
      (c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification,
Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical
Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Swiss Contribution Account" means the account established by
Switzerland for the purposes of the Swiss Contribution;
      (d)   "Procedural Arrangements" means the agreement between the
Government of Switzerland and the Association for cooperation in the
cofinancing of specific projects or programs within the framework of the
Eight Replenishment dated April 9, 1987;
      (e)   "FINNIDA Credit Account" means the account established by
FINNIDA for the purposes of the FINNIDA Credit;
      (f)   "SNAAD" means Sistema Nao-Administrativo de Alocacao de Divisas,
the non-administrative allocation of foreign exchange system approved by the
Borrower; and
      (g)   "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year which
runs from January 1 to December 31.
Page  3
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-eight million
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 68,200,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the amounts of the
Swiss Contribution and the FINNIDA Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account, and the Swiss Contribution and FINNIDA Credit Accounts in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Except as the Association and Switzerland shall otherwise agree,
the allocation and withdrawal of the Swiss Contribution shall be governed
mutatis mutandis by the provisions of the General Conditions.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program, open and
maintain in U.S. dollars a special account in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1991 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding
the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15, commencing September
15, 1999 and ending March 15, 2029. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on March 15, 2009 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
Page  4
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. The Governor of Banco de Mocambique is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower
hereby entrusts Banco de Mocambique with responsibility for the preparation
of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for the collection of the
documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Association in support
of such applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the extent
practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate
amounts of not less than two hundred fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 250,000) equivalent.
                                ARTICLE III
                           Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Swiss Contribution and the FINNIDA Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expenditures financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Swiss Contribution and the FINNIDA
Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
Page  5
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account, the Swiss Contribution or the FINNIDA Credit Accounts were
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Account, the Swiss
                  Contribution or the FINNIDA Credit Amounts was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                  support the related withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant
part thereof, will be carried out.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association,
namely, that this Agreement has been duly ratified by the Borrower's Council
of Ministers and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its
terms.
      Section 5.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
      Section 5.03. In the event that Switzerland or the Association
terminate the functions of the Association pursuant to paragraph 5 of the
Procedural Arrangements, the Association shall notify the Borrower promptly
of the date on which Switzerland shall assume the rights and obligations of
the Association under this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Governor of Banco de Mocambique of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Banco de Mocambique
            Departamento de Relacoes Internacionais
            Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
            P.O. Box 423
            Maputo
            People's Republic of Mozambique
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MOBANCO                       6355/7 BMMO
                  Maputo
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                  By /s/ Valeriano Ferrao
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
                      the Swiss Contribution and the
                              FINNIDA Credit
1.    (a)   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule: (i) the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in
each Category:
       Amount of the
Page  7
     Credit Allocated                % of
       (Expressed in             Expenditures
CategorySDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)     Goods including           66,660,000        100% of foreign
    installation                                    expenditures
    costs
(2)     Consultants'               1,540,000        100% of foreign
    services                                expenditures
    TOTAL    68,200,000
and (ii) the proceeds of the Swiss Contribution and FINNIDA Credit may be
withdrawn from the Swiss Contribution and FINNIDA Credit Accounts for
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execution of the
Program and to be respectively financed out of the Swiss Contribution and
FINNIDA Credit.
    (b)   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures"
means the expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to
the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
    Group       Sub-group         Description of Items
    112               -           Alcoholic beverages
    121               -           Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
    122               -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
                                  containing tobacco substitutes)
    525               -           Radioactive and associated materials
    667               -           Pearls, precious and semi-precious
                                  stones, unworked or worked
    718         718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, fuel
                                  elements (cartridges), non-irradiated for
                                  nuclear reactors
    897         897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
                                  metals (except watches and watch cases)
                                  and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
                                  (including set gems)
    971         -                 Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
                                  and concentrates)
    (b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
    (c)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than
$5,000 equivalent;
    (d)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any
national or international financing institution or agency other than the
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance;
    (e)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose or for luxury consumption; and
Page  8
    (f)   expenditures for foodstuffs (other than edible oils, infant
formula and sugar) and gasoline.
3.  No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to
pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures,
under Category 1 of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the Swiss Contribution and the FINNIDA Credit after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit, the Swiss Contribution and the
FINNIDA Credit withdrawn against Category 1 from the Credit Account and the
Swiss Contribution and FINNIDA Credit Accounts and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of: (i) SDR 33,330,000 from
the Credit; (ii) SwF 10,000,000 from the Swiss Contribution; and (iii) FMKs
20,000,000 from the FINNIDA Credit; unless the Association shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program, and
(b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been
taken and are satisfactory to Association.
4.  If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 3 above, the
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress
achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after
such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions
satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, the Swiss
Contribution, and the FINNIDA Credit or any part thereof.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods
1.  Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of $2,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
    (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is
substituted therefor:
    "2.8  Notification and Advertising
          The international community should be notified in a timely manner
    of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations
    to apply for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for
    prequalification, or to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at
    least one newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
    and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication, Development
                Forum, Business Edition; or
          (ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical
                journal of wide international circulation; or
          (iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
                territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
                potential suppliers of the goods required."
    (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the
Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the
    bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely used in
    international trade and specified in the bidding documents."
    (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.  Contracts for goods to be procured by the Borrower or by private
Page  9
entities estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $2,000,000 each shall
be awarded on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the
purchaser of such goods.
3.  With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution and FINNIDA Credit
Accounts in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
4.  With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account, the Swiss Contribution and the FINNIDA Credit
Accounts in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the
Association may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in
respect of such contract.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Schedule,
where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the
Special Account, the copies of such contract or the documentation and the
information to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall
be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.  The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall not apply
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals
from the Credit Account, the Swiss Contribution and FINNIDA Credit Accounts
on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Program, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with the principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August, 1987.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                  Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                      of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.  (a)   The Borrower has enacted the legal and administrative instruments
approving the SNAAD;
    (b)   the results of the first year of implementation of the SNAAD have
been jointly reviewed by the Borrower and the Association; and
    (c)   agreement has been reached with the Association on the phasing of:
          (i)   the dismantling of the first year safeguards to be
                implemented during the second year of the SNAAD; and
          (ii)  the expansion of the product groups to be included in the
                SNAAD.
2.  Satisfactory progress has been achieved on the review of the Borrower's
Public Expenditure Program in accordance with the objectives and principles
set forth in paragraphs 23 and 24 of the LDP, including:
    (a)   furnishing to the Association of the Borrower's threeyear
investment program for core development projects starting FY 1990;
    (b)   furnishing to the Association of the Borrower's threeyear
financial plan; and
Page  10
    (c)   completion of a review of ongoing capital intensive projects, and
an action plan to prioritize said projects has been approved and furnished
to the Association.
3.  (a)   The minimum price system has been implemented for the following
agricultural products: copra, cotton, cashew, groundnuts, mafurra and
sunflower;
    (b)   the results of the implementation of said system have been
reviewed; and
    (c)   fixed prices for agricultural products have been adjusted taking
into account adjustments in the exchange rate and international border
prices.
4.  (a)   The tariff system has been reviewed; and
    (b)    measures for the simplification of the tariff system to be
implemented starting FY 1990 have been approved.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Program and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Swiss Contribution and
the FINNIDA Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
    (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount equivalent
to $22,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Account; (ii) an amount equivalent to be withdrawn from the
Swiss Contribution Account and deposited into the Special Account; and (iii)
an amount equivalent to $2,200,000 to be withdrawn from the FINNIDA
Contribution Account and deposited into the Special Account all pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account, the Swiss Contribution
Account and FINNIDA Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account, the Swiss Contribution
                Account and the FINNIDA Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account amounts equal in the aggregate to the
                amount requested by the Borrower and shown by said
Page  11
                documents and other evidence to have been made out of the
                Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such
                deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
                Credit Account, the Swiss Contribution Account and the
                FINNIDA Credit Account in the respective equivalent
                amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
                other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account, the Swiss Contribution and FINNIDA Credit Accounts, respectively,
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, the Swiss
Contribution and FINNIDA Credit less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account, the Swiss Contribution
Account and the FINNIDA Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit, the Swiss Contribution and FINNIDA Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association, in its capacity, and as Administrator of the Swiss Contribution
and the FINNIDA Credit) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association, in its
capacity, and as Administrator of the Swiss Contribution and the FINNIDA
Credit such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, after consultation with the Association, refund
to the Association, Switzerland or FINNIDA, all or any portion of the funds
on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association, in its capacity and as Administrator
of the Swiss Contribution and the FINNIDA Credit, made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account or Swiss Contribution Account or FINNIDA Credit Account,
respectively, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, the Swiss Contribution
Agreement and the FINNIDA Credit Agreement including the General Conditions.
Page  12
