Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5172-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 93.5 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
APRIL 30, 1990
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (Jul,; 1989)
US$1   =  Naira 7.2
Naira = US$0.14
EDUCATION SYSTEM
Years 1-6          Primary
Years 7-9          Junior Secondary
Years 10-12        Senior Secor.dary
Years 13-16        University (Arts)
Years 13-17        University (Technical)
Years 13-18        University (Professionel)
ACRONYMS
BFPL  -     Budgetary and Financial Policy Loan
CVC   -     Committee of Vice Chancellors
SAP   -     Structural Adjustment Program
NUC   -     National Universities Commission
SLB   -     Students Loans Board
JAMB  -     Joint Admissions Matriculation Board
NESS  -     Nigerian Expatriate Supplementation Scheme
FME   -     Federal Ministry of Education
PIU   -     Project Implementation Unit (in the Federal
Ministry of Education)
FISCAL YEAR                                ACADEMIC YEAR
Universities             Schools
January 1 to December 31           September to June    January to December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            i
PART I:    THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            1
PART II:   THE EDUCATION SECTOR WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE
TO UNIVERSITY EDUCATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          2
A.   Institutions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           2
B.   The Education System  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  4
C.   Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           4
D.   Employment   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
PART III:  REFORM AND RESTRUCTURING OF FEDERAL
UNIVERSITIES    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  8
A.   Course Rationalization and Accreditation  . . . . . .           8
B.   Costing and Staffing Parameters   . . . . . . . . . .           9
C.   Reducing Government's Financial Burden  . . . . . . .          11
D.   Strengthening Infrastructures   . . . . . . . . . . .         13
PART IV:   THE IDA CREDIT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          14
A.   Objectives   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
B.   Federal Government Policy Framework   . . . . . . . .         15
C.   The Eligibility Criteria  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          16
D.   Institutional Framework   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         20
E.   Financing the Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         22
F.   Credit Justification and Management   . . . . . . . .         28
PART V:    BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA   . . . . . . . . . . . .          33
PART VI:   RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          36
TABLES
Table 1:   Annual Cost per Student by Educational Level, 1985
Table 2:   Distribution of Male Unemployed by Education Level
Table 3:   Anticipated Savings and Additional Revenues from
Implementing the Eligibility Criteria
Table 4:   Long-Term Budget Impact of Program
Table 5:   Total Foreign Exchange Requirements from Credit Funds,
by Age of Universities
Table 6:   Amounts and Methods of Procurement
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1.          Government Policies for the Development
of Federal Universities
2.          Supplementary Data Sheet
Attachment I - Eligibility Criteria
Attachment II - Policy Matrix
3.          Staffing and Costing Parameters
4.          Projected Federal University Staffing
5.          The Role of NUC in Program Implementation
Attachment I - The Organization Chart of NUC and Staff in Post
Attachment II - Monitoring the Eligibility Criteria
6.          Students Loans Board
7-1.        Total Enrollment by Institution, Sex and Level of Courses,
Academic Year, 1987/88
7-2.        Total Staff Numbers for the Academic Year 1987/88
7-3.        Total Student Enrollment by Facility, Sex & University,
Academic Year 1986/87
7-4.        Academic Staff by University, Facility & Sex,
Academic Year 1986/87
7-5.        Federal Recurrent Grants to Nigerian Universities Requested,
Recommended & Received - 1976/77-1989
7-6.        Federal Government Capital Grants to Universities, 1980-89
7-7.        Estimated Foreign Aid for Federal Universities
7-8.        Total Financing of Federal Universities, 1990 to 1994
Constant 1989 Naira (million)
7-9.        Enrollment and Academic Staff Projections 1990-1994
8.          Disbursement Projections
9.          Nigeria Data Sheet
10.         Bank, IDA and IFC Operations
HA.P         IBRD 21938



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:          The Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiaries:    The National Universities Commission, Federal Universities
Amount:            SDR 93.5 million (US$120 million equivalent)
Terms:             S'andard with 35 years maturity
Description:       The credit is designed to support a major ongoing reform
and rationalization of the federal university system. The
objectives of the operation are threefold: to improve the
effectiveness of teaching and research. through the
provision of essential inputs and the upgrading of teachinig
staff; to increase non-governmental income of universities,
through raising user charges and expanding income
generation activities; and to make university activities
more cost effective and efficient, thrcugh a
rationalization of course offerings and a restructuring of
expenditures. Participation in this operation is
voluntary, as in order to be able to draw on credit
proceeds, universities will have to meet clearly defined
eligibility criteria for the first, second, and third years
of the program. Those universities that meet these
criteria will have access to financing for procurement of
books, journals, spare parts, equipment, and services up to
agreed limits. The implementation of these criteria will
result in significant savings and generation of non-
governmental revenues. Credit funds would be released in
three tranches following annual reviews of the
implementation of the operation in order to verify
adherence to program objectives.
Benefits           The credit will result in four main benefits:  (i) per-
and Risks:         student costs borne by Government will fall, and an
increasing proportion of these will be devoted to academic
activities; (ii) there will be significant improvements in
teaching and research, especially in scientific and
technological disciplines; (iii) there will be an
improvement in the management of universities so that only
programs that can be provided with adequate resources will
be run; (iv) increasing attention will be paid to the
maintenance of essential equipment and the development of a
maintenance culture. By the end of this operation there
will be a good quality and expanding university system
sustainable with limited Federal Government subventions.
The main risks involve (i) difficulties the National
Universities Commission might face in effectively



- ii -
monitoring implementation of eligibility criteria; (ii) the
process of reducing staff and rationalizing activities
might be too traumatic for universities and not worth the
increased access to foreign exchange; and (iii) student
unrest in the face of increases in user charges. These
risks are being mitigated by continuously emphasizing that
the reforms are Government's own; by strengthening the
National Universities Commission, and training university
staff in how to meet the eligibility criteria; and by the
credit design, which minimizes the difficulty of
implementing some of the more painful measures through
appropriate phasing and by providing students with some
respite from increased charges through a student loan
scheme.
Estimated          Full disbursement of the proposed credit will take place
Disbursements:     over a four year period.  The credit of US$120 million will
provide direct support of the policy reform program and
would be disbursed in three tranches. Disbursements under
the credit will be on the basis of 100% of the c.i.f. costs
of goods, the foreign exchange costs of services and 90Z of
limited local expenditures. Retroactive financing of up to
US$4.0 million will be allowed for eligible expenditures
after January 1, 1990.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Not applicable.
Map:               IBRD 21938



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIO[- OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 93.5 million (US$120 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity to the Federal Republic of
Nigeria to support the Government's Federal University Development Sector
Adjustment Program. Details of the financial situation in Nigerian
universities are included in Report No. 6920-UNI - Nigeria, Costs and
Financing of Universities, dated December 3), 1988. That report has
provided the analytical background for the Association's dialogue with the
Federal Government of Nigeria, which has led to this operation.
I. THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
2.        Nigeria has the largest and most diversified system of higher
education in Sub-Saharan Africa, with 21 Federal, one military and eight
state universities. There have heen three major periods of university
development: the first in the 1960s and early 1970s when six universities
were established, the second in the mid-1970s when seven more were created,
and the third in the early 1980s when seven Federal Universities of
Technology and eight state universities were established. Enrollment
growth has in the past been phenomenal, with total enrollments doubling
every four or five years and reaching over 160,000 by 1988/89.
3.        The rapid growth of oil revenues during the 1973-1980 period
financed the second and third waves of university expansion and also
enabled Nigeria to undertake massive investment programs in health,
education, manufacturing and basic infrastructure. With the sharp decline
in oil revenues in the early 1980s, however, these programs were cut back,
and many projects have been abandoned in varying stages of completion. To
help salvage these programs and rehabilitate the economy, the Government
has launched a structural adjustment program (SAP). Toward this end,
several policy reforms have been adopted including: (a) establishing a
foreign exchange market; (b) diversifying the economy by developing non-
oil sectors; (c) improving the efficiency of the public sector; (d) further
rationalizing the public expenditure program and giving priority to
rehabilitating and maintaining existing assets; and (e) strengthening
resource mobilization measures.
4.        The prospects for any sizeable increase in budget allocations to
the social sectors are slim. Undoing some of che extravagances of the oil
boom days, reducing costs, establishing better cost effectiveness, and
increasing cost recovery for financial sustainability are becoming the
pressing concerns in these sectors. In addition, looking ahead, the



-2-
development of higher level skills will be essential for long-term growth
and economic diversification, providing resources necessary to capitalize
i.. the country's major structural reform program.
5.        Even with lower oil revenues, currently 81% of all public
expenditures - Federal, state and local - are still financed by them. On
the basis of Bank projections of the oil price and assuming no further
major exchange rate changes, Government revenues are anticipated to show
steady but small real increases similar to the forecast 5.0X a year growth
in GNP between 1989 and 1995. It is planned that education will maintain
its current share of Government expenditures.
6.        Within education there is an imbalance in resource allocation,
with primary education receiving too little relative to higher levels,
especially tertiary.
7.        In these circumstances, and particularly following the recent
Federal Government decision to directly fund 65Z of primary school
teachers' salaries, real resources from the Federal Government for the
universities are unlikely to show any substantial growth. Thus both more
effective use of the scarce resources available to universities, and an
increase in cost sharing on the part of students and their parents, are
essential pre-requisites if a quality education is to be provided. These
therefore form the basic policy adjustments to be supported by this
operation. Participation of universities in this program will be
voluntary. However only those universities that are prepared to undertake
the agreed reform measures will be able to draw on the proceeds of the
credit.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO UNIVERSITY EDUCATION
A. Institutions
8.        Responsibility for education is shared between local, state and
federal govern-ments. Both local and state governments run pre-primary and
primary schools, with prime authority resting with the local governments.
Both state and federal governments run secondary schools with main
responsibility resting with state governments. Both state and federal
governments run universities and other tertiary institutions with priuie
responsibility resting with federal statutory bodies such as the National
Board for Technical Education and the National Universities Commission
(NUC). In addition to the above, private and charitable organizations run
large numbers of schools, mainly at the primary and secondary levels.
Private universities after a brief experiment in the early 1980's were
prohibited in 1984, due to a mushrooming of institutions of entirely
unsatisfactory effectiveness.
9.        Despite this shared operational responsibility, the Federal
Ministry of Education (FME) formulates and coordinates all sector policies,
promotes adequate academic standards, and is responsible for quality
control for all levels and types of education. In order to ensure the



-  3  -
closest coordination between state and federal governments, there is a
National Council of Education with representation from both levelc:. In
addition, many of the boards or councils of the statutory bodies have state
representation. With 80% of undergraduate and postgraduate students f-ing
in federal universities, federal statutory bodies and federal governr nt
agencies occupy a dominant role in the planning of univetsity education in
Nigeria.
10.       Both the National Manpower Board and the NUC were established in
the early 1960s with the latter's role being to plan, coordinate and ensure
balanced development and growth of Nigerian universities. The NUC was
considerably strengthened in the mid 1970s when the Federal Government
enacted a series of policies to strengthen the overall national planning
process. As part of this, the NUC was recreated as a statutory body with
its own bank account into which the Government deposits block grants to be
distributed to the individual universities. Among the functions under NUC
is the preparation of master plans for the balanced and coordinated
development of the universities and the sanctioning of new faculties and
programs. A 1985 Decree has further strengthened the NUC. The main
function of the NUC in practice, however, has been to coordinate the
individual universities' budget requests, present these to Government, and
distribute the actual allocaLions. These requests, in turn, are based on
sets of parameters, formulated by the NUC and i.pproved by Government,
covering each major budget item. Given the very small amounts currently
derived from non-governmental income and a recent reduction of the reserves
accumulated by the universities, the NUC's ability to control the
distribution of public finance gives it substantial powers over the
universities. Increasingly NUC has been using these powers in promoting
academic planning, the rationalization of zeaching programs and the
coordination of research activities between different universities, and the
accreditation of all university programs to ensure that quality and
effectiveness are maintained.
11.       As part of the same process of strengthening federal planning of
the universities, two further institutions were created in the mid-1970s.
The first was the Students Loans Board (SLB), established to provide loans
to those students not in receipt of scholarships. From 1984, it was
inactive, but new legislation in 1988 has provided new momentum for its
operations and the possibility of greater effectiveness. The second of
these institutions was the Joint Admissions Matriculation Board (JAMB),
established in 1978 and responsible for running a special matriculation
examination and coordinating applications for entry into the different
universities.
12.       In all, the institutions are in place and procedures have been
developed to control activities and expenditures in the university system.
Since the financial and political climate of the late 1980s is much more
conducive to allowing both the NUC and SLB to operate in a rational manner
than was the case a decade ago, further strengthening of these two
organizations will produce positive returns.



-4-
B. The Education System
13.       In 1982 the first states changed the structure of their
education to the present 6:3:3:4 system and by 1985 all states had done so.
The new structure involves six years of primary schooling, followed by
three years of junior secondary schooling for about 40X of those leaving
primary, followed by three years of senior secondary schooling leading to
the West African Senior Secondary Certificate, and then four years to a
first degree.
14.       Primary enrollments in 1989 were 13.5 million, a slight decline
from the peak in 1982, and were equivalent to 68% of the estimated primary
school age population. The decline appears to be largely due to reducing
demand in the face of difficult economic conditions and increased fees.
Access is narrower in northern areas and for girls.
15.       Secondary enrollments are estimated at about 4 million.  The
1982 reform in the structure of the educational system involved introducing
a prevocational bias into junior secondary schools (Grades 7 through 9).
The extra finance required, to pay special teachers as well as to meet the
needs of the very rapid increase in enrollments resulting from the attempts
at uni'arsal primary education of the late 1970s, was never forthcoming.
This has resulted in a considerable fall in academic standards and the
overall effectiveness of secondary education.
16.       Enrollments in all forms of tertiary education are estimated at
about 500,000, of which 160,000 are in universities and 130,000 in
technical/vocational institutions, and the remainder in teacher training or
other specialized institutions. The expansion of universities has been
described in para. 2 above. Nevertheless, of those currently completing
their secondary schooling only about 6Z are admitted to univers'ty, and of
those actually applying for admission only about 15% are admitted. Less
than 1X of those who start primary schooling enter university twelve or
more years later. Both federal and state governments have been devoting
increasing attention to expanding enrollments in technical institutions.
It is believed that the graduates from these institutions will be absorbed
in key positions in the modern economy. However existing technical schools
and polytechnics currently suffer from weak organization and management,
shortages of trained and experienced teaching staff, and insufficient
budgets either to complete ambitious 'oil boom' projects, or to finance
adequate non-wage expenditures. The National Board for Technical Education
is being strengthened with the support of the Bank, and is becoming
increasingly involved in accreditation of technical courses.
C. Costs and Financing
17.       The states are more important in the financing of education than
the Federal Government, and have been paying an increasing share, currently
running at over 70% of total government education expenditures. The
Federal Government has been devoting a declining proportion of both its
capital and recurrent budgets to education, with recurrent allocations
falling from 21% of the total (excluding debt servicing) in 1981 to only
13X in 1988, and capital allocations falling from 7% to 42 over the same
period. By 1988 only 3.7% of total Federal Government budgets (including



-  5  -
debt servicing) were directly devoted to education. This rose to 6.52 in
1989 with the creation and funding of the National Primary Education
Commission. Throughout the 1980s between 46% and 62% of these Federal
Government educational expenditures have been devoted to federal
universities. The universities' share of total state and federal
educational expenditures has remained quite constant at around 19%. The
primary and secondary school levels have together taken just over 70% of
educational budgets, but with wide fluctuations in their relative shares.
Over the past few years through 1988, there was a significant increase in
the proportion going to secondary education and in turn a decrease in the
proportion going to primary education, but this has been reversed with the
1989 budget.
18.       A progressive withdrawal of Federal Government financing of
primary education throughout the early and mid-1980s resulted in fees being
raised which covered as much as 30% of recurrent expenditures, a proportion
more than three times as great as that raised from students in federal
universities. In order to stem declining enrollments, the Federal
Government has convinced states to reduce or even abolish fees at the
primary level, and promised to finance up to 65% of primary teachers'
salaries through the National Primary Education Commission which was
created in 1988; a special budget cf N800 million was provided in 1989 to
support primary education in the states.
19.       From the following table it can be seen th-it the costs per
student in federal universities were about 60 times those in primary
schools. This ratio has declined in recent years as the unit costs at
federal universities have fallen whilst those in primary schools appear to
have risen slightly.  It should also be noted that these average figures
hide very wide ranges - at the primary level at least two fold between
states, and even wider within states; and at the university level a 3.4
fold range between universities, and a 6.5 fold range between students
taking different subjects. A second point can be seen from this table, and
that is that federal institutions are much better financed than those run
by the states.
Table 1. Annual Cost per Student by Educational Level, 1985
(Naira)
Multiples of the
Education Level                  Unit Cost            Primary Unit Cost
Primary                                65                  1.0
State Secondary                       219                  3.4
Federal Secondary                  1,187                  18.3
State Teachers College                730                 11.2
Federal Teachers College           2,890                  44.6
Polytechnic                        1,460                  22.5
Federal University                 3,911                  60.0
Source: World Bank estimates 1985



-  6  -
20.       Unit costs borne by Government in federal universities have
fallen significantly over the past few years both in current as well as in
real terms. For example in real tcrms (deflated by domestic price changes)
recurrent expenditures per student fell by 382 between 1982 and 1986.
Forty percent of this reduction resulted from a removal of feeding
subsidies in 1985. More particularly, a devaluation of the naira between
1985 and 1989 to one-seventh of its original international value has
severely inflated the domestic currency prices of the substantial imports
required by universities. Given the increased emphasis now being placed on
primary education, it is unlikely despite increasing university enrollments
that university allocations will increase in real terms over the period
covered by this program. This will result in further substantial
reductions in unit costs per university student borne by the Federal
Government.
21.       University representatives in Nigeria point out rhat as a result
of reduced levels of funding over the past six years, the unit costs of
their institutions are very low compared to those of universities in
developed countries. On the basis of such a comparison, current unit costs
at around US$600 are low. However three other sets of comparisons provide
a different conclusion. First, the unit costs of universities in several
Asian countries are similar or lower. In the mid-1980's in India, for
instance, they average around US$600, the Philippines US$290 and in
Pakistan US$320. Second, at their current levels, university unit costs in
Nigeria are more than one and a half times the per capita income. While
this multiple is one-fourth of the African average, it is much higher than
for Asian countries (1.18) or Latin American countries (0.88). Third,
while university unit costs may have been falling in Nigeria, so have those
for most other educational levels and the differentials remain very wide as
can be seen in Table 1. These multipliers of 60 times for primary and an
average of 16 times for secondary, compare with 22 and five respectively
for a sample of eight South Asian countries.
22.       The structure of unit costs in Nigerian universities
demonstrates why, despite their relatively high levels, there is widespread
evidence of underfunding of many academic activities and inputs. Only 34Z
of expenditures go to direct teacLing while total academic costs, including
libraries and research units, claim only 49Z. Over half of total
expenditures are devoted to administrative support in various forms. The
comparable figure for British universities is under 30%. The municipal and
welfare functions resulting from the pattern of self-contained universities
located at significant distances from urban centers are one major cause of
this distorted cost structure. This is a pattern that Government is
unwilling to depart from.
23.       In Nigeria parents have to finance a higher proportion of the
tctal costs of their children's education than in most other Sub-Saharan
African countries. In 1988 it was estimated that parents were spending
between N52 and N132 annually for each child in primary school whilst a
university student had to spend from N1,500 to N3,000 annually. Both these
figures appear high compared with a per-capita income of around N1,550 in
1987, and an average rural household income of N1,568 in the same year.



-7-
D. Employment
24.       Thanks to the work of the well-staffed National Manpower Board,
there is more information in Nigeria than in most other sub-Saharan African
countries to show how the demand for manpower has changed quite
dramatically over recent years. Until 1982/83 there was every indication
that there was full employment of high and middle-level manpower,
especially of university graduates. However by the end of 1983, the first
signs of significant unemployment of high-level manpower began to appear.
In 1983 overall recorded urban unemployment was 7.3Z; this rose to 11.0X in
June 1986, falling to 8.7% by March 1987. This fall was partly due to
primary school leavers evidently giving up an active search for employment.
This can be seen in the following table.
Table 2. Distribution of Male Unemployed by Educational Level
(percent)
Education Level                               Percent of Unemployed
December    December         March
1983        1984            1987
None                                         8.8         10.7          10.9
Primary                                     22.1        32.9          21.9
Secondary                                   67.7        52.4          61.2
Teaching Certificate                          -           1.3           0.5
Polytechnic                                  1.5          0.7          2.2
University                                   _            2.0           3.3
100.0       100.0         100.0
Recorded Urban
Unemployment Z                               7.3Z                      8.7X
Source: Federal Office of Statistics 1985 and 1987
Labor Force Sample Survey, 1984 and March 1987
The situation of university graduates has deteriorated rapidly. From full
employment in 1983, they represented 21 of urban unemployment in December
1984 ard 3.3% by March 1987. However the main unemployment problem lies
with secondary school leavers (over 60Z of the unemployed labor force).
25.       Government expects that with the curricular and structural
reforms discussed above, combined with the massive support that the
National Directorate of Employment is providing to apprenticeship training,
the extremely high rates of unemployment of secondary school leavers will
begin to fall. It is expected that current labor market realities will
lead to a change in attitudes which, combined with the new skills of
secondary graduates, will lead to an upsurge of productive informal sector
employment.



- 8 -
26.       The National Manpower Board carried out a tracer study of 1984
university graduates two years after graduation and found that the
proportion of new graduates finding employment in the private sector had
risen from 14X in 1983 to 18Z in 1986, whilst those in the Federal
Government had fallen from 282 to 18Z over the same period. There is
evidence to show that unemployment of high level manpower varies widely by
geographical region, with almost no unemployment noted in northern states
such as Sokoto, increasing levels in the middle belt such as Kwara state,
and highest unemployment of all in the south and east.
27.       The Government has responded to this increasing graduate
unemployment by slowing the growth of enrollments in federal universities,
by launching a major accreditation exercise to ensure that only quality and
effective programs are run and by requiring a 60:40 science:arts ratio in
the annual intake in future (para. 39). It is expected that these measures
will slow down, or even reverse, the increase in the unemployment rates of
university graduates. In addition the lack of assured employment and the
decreasing levels of privilege of students on campus, is already leading to
more realistic attitudes and expectations, and will eventually result in a
more even distribution of graduates between different parts of the country,
and to an increasingly large proportion taking on the challenges of private
enterprise.
III. REFORM AND RESTRUCTURING OF FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES
28.       The period since 1985 has been the most active time ever in
university reform in Nigeria. Decree No. 16 of 1985 strengthened the
National University Commission Decree of 1974, by givirg the NUC the power
to establish national minimum academic standards. In 1988, Decree No. 12
re-established and strengthened the SLB. In 1989, committees on minimum
academic standards completed their work and their reports were approved by
the Federal Government. A new set of staffing and costing parameters to be
used in the annual process of budget allocation to the universities was
approved by the NUC. In addition, great progress has been made in
implementing a more rational process and more cost-effective norms for
construction activities.
A. Course Rationalization and Accreditation
29.       Unplanned university growth intensified in the mid to late 1970s
when the number of universities more than doubled. Each new university
attempted to offer the full range of programs, including the most expensive
ones of agriculture, engineering and medicine, with less than due regard to
realistic projections of manpower needs or operational capacity. Later,
the third generation universities which were designated as technological
universities added courses in law, social studies and business studies.  In
total in 1988, first generation universities were running between 67 and 88
different departments, second generation, 26 to 60, and third generation
universities of technology, 9 to 19.
30.       Over the past few years the first serious attempts have been
made in course rationalization. The committees set up in 1984 to study



-  9 -
university curricula (para. 28) made quite drastic recommendations on
course rationalization, including the phasing out of many faculties and
departments of low manpower priority from first and second generation
universities. The Government did not accept these proposals but instead
favored voluntary am.algamation of departments, closing non-authorized
departments and faculties, and setting up a strong accreditation process.
Following these recommendations, all universities have been asked to submit
their own rationalization plans to NTJC aimed at reducing "duplication
within and between universities and providing modalities for phasing out
.... programs that are neither attractive to students nor to the economy."
A significant number of unauthorized and unviable departments and one
faculty (law at Ilorin) have been closed. Following the approval by NUC
and by the Federal GoveLrnment of the reports of the minimum academic
standards committees, accreditation panels have been set up and the
accreditation exercise was launched in March 1990. Some of the standards
approved by Government can be interpreted as so high, especially in the
area of equipment requirements, that it is unlikely that any university
could have its courses accredited without modification or a liberal
interpretation of the standards. For example, it has been calculated that
a faculty of engineering will require up to US$12 million of equipment, a
faculty of science US$4.5 million, a college of medicine US$3-4 million and
a faculty of agriculture about US$1.5 - 2 million.  Nevertheless, the
accreditation exercise is a major step forward in developing an effective
university system. The Government white paper on minimum academic
standards also proposed significant increases in the time all universities
must be open for regular instruction, and also fixed the minimum teacher
workload: "The first and second semesters should last 17 to 18 weeks each
with not less than 15 weeks each actually devoted to teaching". "A full-
time teaching staff should teach a minimum of eight credit hours per
semester".
B. Costing and Staffing Parameters
31.       Recurrent Costs.  Of the recurrent grant provided by the Federal
Government to the NUC, around 88Z is transferred to universities as their
block grant, with the remainder being for teaching and equipment funds
(4Z+) research funds (4Z+), the NUC secretariat (2Z+), and pension and
other centralized funds (lZ+).
32.       The total Federal grant for recurrent costs has only increased
by 28X between 1984 and 1989 in current terms, despite domestic inflation
and a massive depreciation of the Naira and more than a 202 increase in
student numbers over the same period (Annex 7.5). Federal capital grants
have not yet regained their 1983 levels in current terms (Annex 7.6).
33.       In 1977, the NUC developed a series of costing and staffing
parameters to be used in the annual process of budget allocation to
particular universities. These parameters included student:teacher ratios;
academic staff structure; technical staff ratios; senior administrative
staff ratios; junior staff ratios; relationship of academic supplies to
salaries; proportion of total budget for organized research, libraries and
community activities; and percentage of administrative salaries going to
general goods and services.



- 10 -
34.       According to the decrees establishing NUC, it has the
responsibility of "advising the Government on the financial needs, both
recurrent and capital, of university education.... and receiving annually a
block grant from the Federal Government and allocating it to universities
with such conditions attached as the Commission may think advisable". Up
until recently almost the whole grant, calculated using the above
parameters, was allocated to a university as a block grant, with the
university having complete freedom to do what it wanted with the grant.
Thus although, applying the parameters, 68.5Z should be used for teaching
and research, no university spent more than 54.7% of its allocation on
this, with some as little as 39.7Z.  Similarly not more than 60% of the
total grant should be spent on staff salaries but in 1987, 93.2Z of the
grants for all universities went for salaries and allowances, with four
universities spending more than 100% of their grant, and thus drawing down
their reserves for this.
35.       Over the past three years, NUC has been revising the staffing
and costing parameters to make them more relevant to current budgetary
scarcities. Details of these revised parameters are included in Annex 3.
Generally, in the scientific disciplines student/academic staff ratios have
been made more generous, whilst all other ratios have been made more
stringent. This means that virtually all the older universities will have
to lay o,f significant numbers of staff of nearly all categories to meet
these new ratios and be able to cperate effectively within the limited
budgets available. The NUC has on hand a N60 million contingency and
pension fund, and will lend money from this fund interest-free, with a ten-
year repayment period, to provide universities with the money they need to
pay termination grants and meet pension obligations for retrenched staff.
The most overstaffed of all the universities will require a loan of 19-10
million to get its establishment within NUC norms over a three-year period.
In addition, in order to try to ensure that meaningful research takes place
in all universities, from 1987 five percent of the block recurrent grant
was separated out as a non-fungible research fund for each university.
36.       Capital Costs.  Every university has a master plan approved by
NUC, which is revised every five years. Each master plan is based on an
academic brief and a physical brief, both of which also require NUC's
approval. Space standards and utilization factors had been developed by
special consultants to NUC in 1978, and were somewhat extravagant. Up
until 1984, there was little control from the Physical Planning and
Development Department of NUC on the design and cost of buildings to be
started. Projects were accepted even though they bore little relationship
to the approved norms. A university's entire annual capital grant was
transferred to the university, which allowed many non-approved capital
projects to be started. Thus there are uncompleted projects on university
campuses throughout the country estimated by NUC at N1.2 billion in 1987.
According to a preliminary inventory of all buildings in all universities,
and a preliminary space utilization analysis, the majority of universities
are not short of academic floor space, as long as there can be sharing of
teaching space between faculties. However, many of the newer universities
do lack adequate library facilities, a problem that is currently being
tackled using the normal annual capital budget. Additionally, if all
buildings were completed, there would be sufficient space for 50% more
students than are currently enrolled.



37.       In order to ensure that the scarce resources available for the
development of buildings are used as effectively as possible, NUC physical
planners have worked with university planners on scaling down some of the
most overdesigned buildings, and have prepared a priority list of projects
to be completed. Funds are now only released for projects on this list.
In 1990, the Government is providing NUC with an extra allocation of over
N400 million for the higher priority projects on the list. Capital grants
are no longer released in advance, but quarterly to cover part of the costs
of actual work completed on approved priority buildings, with the other
part being drawn from the capital balances many second and third generation
universities hold (up to N18 million in some universities). Altogether
much greater cost consciousness has been introduced in the provision and
utilization of physical space.
C. Reducing Government's Financial Burden
38.       In paras. 20 and 31 the significant fall in real Government
financial allocations to the universities was discussed. Various important
steps have been taken to mitigate the effects of this fall, including
controlling the rate of growth of enrollments, lengthening the academic
year, removing subsidies, reducing non-teaching staff, increasing fees, and
raising income from non-Governmental sources.
39.       Controlling Enrollment Growth.  From the mid-1960s to the mid-
1980s enrollments doubled every four to five years. However with the
publication of the white paper on university curricula, rates of growth of
intakes have been restricted until 1992 to a maximum of 2.5% p.a for the
oldest six universities (first generation), 10% p.a. for the seven
universities established in the 1970s (second generation) and 15 p.a. for
those universities established in the 1980s. Within these enrollment
targets, by the 1990/91 academic year at least 60% of intakes (80% in the
federal universities of technology) must be in scientific disciplines.
These growth rates imply (assuming that postgraduate and sub-degree
students maintain their share of total enrollments) overall enrollment
growth rates of 4.42 p.a. currently, rising to 6.52 in 1993. In fact many
of the universities facing the most serious financial problems have not
been reaching their targeted growth; for example, the University of Nigeria
at Nsukka only grew at 0.1% over the past year, and total system
enrollments only grew by 3.7Z. In 1988 all sub-degree schools of basic
studies were removed from the universities, thus further reducing growth.
Subject specific remedial programs, particularly in science are still being
run.
40.       Removal of Subsidies.  In the summer of 1985, Government decided
to remove subsidies devoted to the feeding of students. Universities were
instructed that student feeding activities should be entirely self-
financing, including the costs of food inputs, labor, fuel, and utensils.
Up until that time, about 16% of the block grants had been used for feeding
students. At the same time the junior staff:student ratio was reduced from
5:10 to 3:10 to take account of the divestiture of catering
responsibilities and staff that look place. To help them with the
redundancy payments, universities were provided w,l:h the salaries of these



- 12 -
catering staff for the whole of the 1985/86 academic year, even though the
staff had been laid off at the beginning of the year.
41.       Increasing Fees.  Also in 1985, the fee per bed space in student
hostels was increased from N45 to N90 p.a., and the approved postgraduate
fees for Nigerian students were approximately tripled to N500 in arts,
N600 in law, and N700 in science. Higher fees than these were allowed for
part-time postgraduate programs (a fee of N1,500 is not uncommon for these
part time courses).  There is evidence of many institutions charging higher
than approved fees.  Non-Nigerians pay N750 to N1,200 p.a. for
undergraduate studies, and three times the level charged to Nigerians for
postgraduate work.  It should be noted that from 1982, universities have
been pressing Government to allow them to increase postgraduate and
accommodation fees.
42.       Raising Non-Governmental Revenues.  Currently universities
geuierate a very small proportion of their total recurrent income from non-
governmental sources. In 1985/86 this did not exceed 4% on average.
Government considers this amount entirely unsatisfactory. In a speech
given by the Federal Minister of Education to all university Vice-
Chancellors in November 1987, universities were asked to increase the
proportion of their total recurrent revenues generated from non-
Governmental sources by five percentage points a year so that within 10
years, 50% would come from these sources. Though currently around 40 - 502
is raised in most universities in the UK and the USA it will take many
years before anywhere like these levels will be achieved in Nigeria.
Nevertheless as a result of the Federal Minister's injunction, universities
have stepped up their income generation activities through divesting direct
responsibility for running bookshops, bakeries and other commercial small-
scale enterprises; through establishing or strengthening consultancy
services; and through starting commercial farming activities on part of
their huge land holdings. At the time of appraisal, isolated cases of
successful income generation activities were seen in a few places, whilst
almost all had taken some steps to start commercial ventures.
43.       Using Accumulated Bank Balances.  During the "oil boom" years,
universities managed to save sizeable amounts from their recurrent and
capital grants from NUC, and the interest earned on those balances was
often reinvested. The 1987 block grant to the universities was 22% lower
than that of 1986. Though it is claimed that this reduction was a "tragic
accident", at least part of the reason for this might have been to force
universities to use some of their excessive recurrent balances. There has
also been an attempt over the past four years to get unive.sities to use up
the larger part of the balances of their capital grants. In June 1989,
universities, along with all other Federal agencies, had to transfer their
local bank balances drawn from unexpended government grants from interest
bearing accounts in commercial banks to non-interest bearing accounts with
the Central Bank of Nigeria. University balances transferred totalled
around N180 million. This will adversely affect their income generation,
as one of the main sources of non-governmental income had been interest
earnings.



-  13  -
D. Strengthening Infrastructures
44.       NUC.  At the time of the promulgation of Decree 16 of 1985, NUC
had four departments, namely, Personnel, Finance, Physical Planning and
Development, and Academic Planning. Since then two new departments have
been created, namely, Research and Postgraduate Development (1987) and
Statistics and Records (1989). This youngest department is responsible for
the computerization of all NUC and related university records, and in
assisting universities in introducing mechanized management information
systems. Over recent years, efforts have been made to strengthen the
Finance, Academic Planning and Physical Planning Departments. These
efforts have been largely successful as can be seen in Annex 5. The
increased staffing has allowed for more frequent monitoring visits to the
universities, with physical planners visiting once a quarter, and academic
planners at least twice a year.
45.       The board of the NUC has in January 1990 been expanded from 19
to 33 members in order to allow it not only to represent diverse interests
- Governmental, commercial, industrial, and community but also to draw
irembers from each of the 13 major academic disciplines. It currently has
four regular meetings a year. Much of the work of the board is carried out
by specialized committees formed by the commission. The most important of
these are accreditation, university development, and finance. NUC also has
two overseas offices loosely attached to Nigerian diplomatic missions in
London and Washington D.C., which carry out services for the universities
in staff recruitment, payment of staff attending postgraduate courses, and
procurement. Last year the London office procured around US$1 million
worth of goods and services on behalf of the universities.
46.       The Federal Government approved in November 1989 a proposal from
FME for NUC to pay its staff according to the University Salary Scale as
opposed to the normal government scale. This would provide an increase of
about 15? in basic salary for most professional staff, but much more
importantly allows transfers of staff back and forth between universities
and NUC, thus helping to break down some of the barriers that currently
exist between NUC and the universities.
47.       Universities.  Partly due to encouragement from NUC, and partly
from their own felt needs, of the 18 universities visited during appraisal
17 were found to have academic planning units of some kind. These were
gradually beginning to play an important role in their universities. Of
the universities visited, 15 were making some use of computers for
management functions. In almost every university there was, at the highest
level, an awareness that increasingly robust management and planning
principles would have to be applied to help the universities cope with
static or even falling revenues from Government. There was a general
awareness that without a dramatic increase in oil prices, universities
could not expect much increase in the real level of their grants from the
Federal Government over the next few years.
48.       SLB.  From 1984 until the promulgation of the Students Loans
Board Decree of 1988 the loans board was inactive. With the appointment of
a new Executive Director in 1988 and the move of the SLB to Abuja,
considerable preparatory work has been undertaken w'hich enabled the board



-  14  -
to restart making loans for the 1989/90 academic year. Most of this work
has been carried out with the assistance of local consultants, including
JAMB on SLB's data requirements, university consultants in the elaboration
of the mode of operation of the SLB under the new decree, and private
consultants in the preparation of specifications of computers needed by the
board. In addition to the HQs, three zonal offices have been established,
and states have been encouraged to provide free office accommodation and
transport to enable state offices to be established. Even local
governments are being involved in administering a means test on
applications for loans. In 1989/90 there was a modest beginning with
approximately 3,600 loans each of N1,000 being made with a repayment period
of 10 years and a nominal interest of 7Z. Currently SLB has N70 million
available for new loans, and M43 million of outstanding loans only part of
which will be repaid and become available to be recycled. Existing
resources are only sufficient to admit an additional 20,000 students at
currently approved loan levels. If 5,000 new students are to be given
loans each year, existing resources will be committed in four years. Long-
term financing arrangements for SI.B still need to be worked out. It should
be noted that loans are not restricted to university students; any tertiary
students are eligible. Details of the operation of the SLB are included in
Annex 6.
49.       Committee of Vice Chancellors (CVC).  Though the CVC is not a
statutory body but merely an informal grouping of the Vice Chancellors of
federal universities, it has been playing an increasingly important role in
university reform. It has over the past year or two set up several study
groups on crucial aspects of reform including the eligibility criteria
covered by this operation, and on solutions to the student accommodation
problem. It has also provided Government with a forum for discussing new
initiatives in higher education before they become crystallized in policy.
The CVC is self-financed.
IV. THE IDA CREDIT
A.   Obiectives
50.       The overall objective of this operation is to assist the Federal
Government, through the intermediary of the NUC, in its efforts to ensure
that the federal universities will improve the effectiveness and relevance
of their teaching and research whilst at the same time becoming more cost-
effective. More specifically the program aims at encouraging universities
to reduce the recurrent cost per student borne by Government, to increase
internally generated income, and to reduce overstaffing and other areas of
wastage. On completion of this operation, funds in excess of 40Z of the
estimated annual expenditures of credit funds will be generated from
savings, from staff reduction and course rationalization, and from
increased non-governmental revenues. In addition, it is expected that
universities will make more effective use of the scarce resources available
by transferring funds currently spent on administration and municipal
services to areas more crucial for quality teaching and research. The
program also aims to help accelerate the pace of re-equipping academic
space, rebuilding a well trained and committed staff and strengthening



- 15 -
institutions for planning, budgeting and procurement. It will greatly
reduce the backlog of spare parts and equipment that has built up over the
years of financial decline. Finally, the long-term objective of the
restructuring supported by this program is to produce a substantial
improvement in teaching and research activities sustainable within the
Federal Government's available resources.
51.       Universities are at a key stage in their development in Nigeria
at the present time. Either thev can cling to a past which no longer
exists, and in common with universities in much of the developing world,
face a drastic fall in the quality and effectiveness of the education they
provide; or they can carry out a major reform of their activities to create
a new style of university, designed through creative teaching and research
to play a key role in appropriate and feasible socio-economic development.
The program aims to support those universities that are prepared to
undertake painful reforms by providing access to financing for purchasing
inputs essential for teaching and research such as books and journals,
scientific equipment and spare parts.
52.       Universities must have a high degree of autonomy if they are
able to fulfill their mission of playing a constructive role in national
social, economic and cultural development. This operation accepts this
autonomy and provides universities with the choice of reforming their
programs and in so doing gaining access to substantial amounts of foreign
exchange; or continuing with the status quo but with dwindling real
resources.
B. Federal Government Policy Framework
53.       This operation is designed to support the policies and
initiatives already being undertaken by Government and NUC as described in
Part ITI above. In order to help universities in the implementation of
some of these policies, it has been agreed that the Federal Government and
NUC will take six further steps. Firstly, Government will announce a
deregulation of postgraduate fees and allow them to be increased by
individual universities up to a level sufficient for full cost recovery
which will vary by subject, but could involve up to a sevenfold increase to
N4,000 or more.  Secondly, Government will reduce the student lodging
element of the block recurrent grant, thus encouraging universities to seek
alternative ways of managing and financing their hostels. Thirdly, in
order to cushion the impact of these increased charges, Government will
give the Federal Minister of Education the authority to increase the
maximum levels of loans that can be provided by SLB to a level that would
allow the minimum private costs borne by a student to be met. At the
undergraduate level, loans of N1,500 to N2,000 p.a. will be needed, and at
the postgraduate level up to N5,000 p.a. Fourthly, in addition to the
interest-free loans NUC is making available to the universities to cover
the redundancy payments incurred when they lay off staff, NUC will withdraw
the part of the block grant being used to finance the excess numbers in
certain categories of staff which are in excess supply atcording to the NUC
norms (starting with 1990/91). Fifthly, it is agreed that no new
construction will be approved or incomplete building completed, unless a
university-wide space utilization study has been carried out and shows
utilization factors of at least 60% for existing specialized space and 80%



-  16  -
for general academic space. Finally, it is agreed that by the third year
of this program actual expenditures on salary items in universities will
not exceed the proportion of the total block grant indicated through
applying NUC norms (602).
C.   The Eligibility Criteria
54.       The eligibility criteria for participating universities are the
key element of this sector adjustment operation. The criteria have been
drawn from Government's own policy initiatives, and elaborated through
eighteen months of dialogue between the Bank, the FME, the NUC, and the
universities. They are designed to have an impact both on program
effectiveness, and on savings and increases in extra-budgetary finance.
Universities that are to draw on first tranche credit funds will have to
meet six criteria, those that are to draw on second tranche credit funds
will have to meet eight criteria (six of which are new); and those that are
to draw on third tranche credit funds will have to meet eight criteria (six
of which are new). A university will be able to import an average of
US$2.25 million of goods and services for each set of criteria they meet.
This amount will vary by the age of the university (first, second, and
third generation) due to differing needs. At the time of meeting the
criteria, eligible universities will present a plan to NUC of the goods and
services they will import with the tranche funds available.
55.       A tabular presentation of the eligibility criteria is included
in Attachment I to Annex 2. These criteria can be classified under seven
main headings namely: staff reduction; course rationalization; increasing
self-financing of hoftels; increasing revenues from non-Governmental
sources; sub-degree programs to be self-financing; rational equipment
maintenance and procurement; and implementation of a management information
system.
56.       Staff reduction.  In order to meet all three tranches'
eligibility criteria, a university will have to impose a complete freeze on
the hiring of all categories of staff where NJC staffing norms are being
exceeded. In addition, to meet the first tranche criteria, a university
will have selected and named half of the excess non-academic staff to be
removed; for the second tranche dismissed all excess non-academic staff;
and for the third tranche removed from the payroll half the excess academic
staff. In 1988/89, there were 10,500 more staff in post in categories with
excesses than would be allowed by the norms in all universities together at
the midpoint of this program in 1991/92. About 3,200 will depart through
natural attrition, but the remaining 7,300 will need to be retrenched and
will require compensation. This compensation varies depending on the
length of service, and whether the staff member is permanent or temporary.
The minimum level is three months salary; the maximum level is three years
salary and 70% pension. Given the mix of existing staff it is likely that
N60-70 million will be needed for compensation. Savings from this
retrenchment and freeze will be N26 million p.a., and from enforcement of
the new staffing parameters a further N46 million p.a., making a total of
N72 million p.a. (Annex 4).
57.       Course Rationalization.  To meet the first tranche criteria a
university should not run postgraduate programs in a department that has



-  17  -
not graduated any undergraduates; and should not retain any department that
has existed for more than ten years with less than 40 full-time equivalent
students. For the second tranche all programs not approved by NUC will
cease to exist, and no first or second generation university will have less
than 12 students in any postgraduate program, and no third generation
university less than six students. For the third tranche a university
should not have any department that has existed for ten years with fewer
than two-thirds the requireu academic staff.  These provisions are expected
to lead to mergers among departments and programs and movements of
students. The main benefit from implementation of these criteria will be
more effective use of scarce academic staff, but savings of about M5
million p.a. can also be expected.
58.       Increasing Self-Financing at Hostels.  To meet the second
tranche criteria all university leases on privately owned hostels will be
terminated; and all university-owned hostels will become separate
accountable organizations with separate metering of electricity and water,
and a charge-back system for maintenance and salary costs. It is hoped
that this will prepare the ground for hostels to eventually become self
financing. In addition different systems of management will be tested. It
has been also agreed that hostel fees will be at least doubled to N180 p.a.
from 1990/91, and thereafter revised annually. It is expected that this
policy will result in a more healthy environment in the hostels, and a
saving of N10 million p.a.
59.       Increasing Revenues from Non-Governmental Sources.  For the
second tranche a university will have to be generating 72 and for the third
tranche 102, of total recurrent revenues from a combination of tuition
fees, profits from businesses and consultancy services and endowments.
Current levels are of the order of 4?, thus implementation of this
criterion will generate around N36 million of additional income p.a. It is
proposed that one-third of this additional income will be able to be used
at the discretion of the university, and thus only N24 million p.a. are
considered to impact directly on the block grant needed.
60.       Sub-Degree Programs.  For the third tranche all remedial
programs in arts will have been phased out from the universities, along
with those sub-degree programs that are being offered in other tertiary
institutions. In addition tuition fees for both remedial programs in
science (which are expected to be needed for some years more), and other
sub-degree programs run at the universities, will be increased in real
terms. In 1987/88, 8.1% of regular enrollments in Federal Universities
were at the sub-degree level, with a further 2.5X in associated colleges.
In one first generation university (Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria), it has
been estimated that N10 million of its N52 million subvention in 1988/89
was devoted to sub-degree programs. In all universities, around N40
million from NUC grants is being spent on sub-degree programs. Not only is
the university an expensive place to run these programs, but in a large
proportion of cases they are not considered in calculating the NUC block
recurrent grant, and thus they are run at the expense of undergraduate and
postgraduate teaching and research. The implementation of this criterion
will free resources for the ma.n functions of the university, and will also
produce some savings when sub-degree programs are transferred to a lower



- 18 -
cost environment.  Actual savings to Government are difficult to quantify,
but could total as much as N10 million p.a.
61.       Rational Equipment Maintenance and Procurement.  Under each
tranche, 60Z of all equipment procured from all sources of funds will be
according to standard specifications and from manufacturers prequalified by
NUC. For the first tranche a university will have prepared a plan showing
how and when out-of-order equipment will be repaired, and what general
maintenance facilities will be established; and for the second and third
tranches this plan will be implemented. Some savings will result from
economies of scale in procurement, but the amount is difficult to quantify;
it will in any case exceed N10 million p.a. The real benefit here will be
the fact that academic staff and students will have access to substantially
increased quantities of functioning equipment. In some universities as
much as 80X of their scientific and technological equipment is currently
out of order.
62.       Introduction of a Management Information System.  For the third
tranche a university will provide accurate details of unit costs, and costs
per graduate by level, department and faculty, calculated according to
systems and methodologies to be proposed by NUC. The potential benefits
through providing managers with accurate data on which they can base their
decisions are very great, but unquantifiable.
63.       Savings and Additional Revenues from Implementation of
Eligibility Criteria. The following summarizes the annual savings and new
revenues that could be achieved with the program on the assumption that all
universities manage to meet all the eligibility criteria. Of course the
actual benefits to the university system will be very much greater. For
example, staff retrenchment will reduce the subsidy on staff housing.
Other measures, such as course rationalization, will result in considerable
improvements in effectiveness of undergraduate and postgraduate teaching
through concentrating programs in universities where qualified staff and
adequate facilities are available.
Table 3. Anticipated Savings and Additional Revenues from
Implementing the Eligibility Criteria
Maximum Annual Savings/
New Revenues
(N million p.a)
New staffing norms                                         72
Course rationalization                                      5
Increasing hostel fees                                     10
Increased university earnings                              24
Rationalizing sub-degree programs                          10
Standardized equipment procurement                     '  10
Equipment maintenance systems                         Substantial
Management information systems                             Some
Total  (at least)                                   131



-  19  -
Not all universities are expected to meet the eligibility criteria (para.
65). However, even those which do not will benefit from the general policy
changes which will permit raising postgraduate fees and hostel charges.
Thus the actual benefits are expected to reach at least N120 million per
annum a- a result of the program.
64.       Monitoring of the Eligibility Criteria.  Full details of the
monitoring proposals are included in Annex 5, paras. 12-15 and Attachment
II. For this NUC will divide the country into four zones each with five
universities, and each being monitored by a team composed of one high level
NUC official, two academic planners, and one accountant. In November of
each year there will be a preliminary assessment of the readiness of a
university to meet the criteria, combined with instructions on the
preparatory work to be completed. In February, each university will make a
submiscion to the NUC along with its plan as tc the use of its drawing
limits for importing goods and services. In April/May there will be
detailed field inspection of the extent to which a university has met the
criteria (and in later years, of the use that is being made of the imported
goods and services). Additional field visits to a university that has not
met a particular criterion will only take place at the request of that
university. During the first two years of the credit, NUC will submit to
the Association its recommendations on the achievement of the eligibility
criteria by particular universities for its approval.
65.       Number of Universities Meeting the Eligibility Criteria.  During
appraisal, eighteen of the twenty existing federal universities were
visited and an analysis of the difficulty each would face in meeting the
criteria was made. On the basis of this analysis, an extrapolation of
secondary data for the two universities not visited, and taking account of
the likelihood of there being considerable Government pressure on
universities to meet the criteria in the national interest, the number of
universities likely to meet the criteria is estimated to be as follows:
Number of Universities Likely to Meet
First Tranche    Second Tranche       Third Tranche
Eligibility         Eligibility        Eligibility
Criteria            Criteria           Criteria
First Generation              6                  5                  4
Second Generation             7                  6                  5
Third Generation              7                  7                  5
Total                       20                  18                 14
It can be seen from the above that all the universities -il expected to
meet the first tranche eligibility criteria, but a growii, number is
expected to have difficulty meeting the second and thirdl :anche criteria.



-  20  -
D. Institutional Framework
66.       For this program to be effectively implemented, the Federal
Ministry of Education will need to continue to play a leadership role in
the subsector; the NUC will need to be further strengthened; key university
officials will have to be trained both in ways to meet the eligibility
criteria, and in more effective management; and the SLB must be built up if
it is to be able to support the most needy students whilst at the same time
increasing the rate of recovery of past and new loans. At the outset it
should be emphasized that no new institutions, or program management units
will be created to manage this operation, as its objectives are no
different from those of NUC, the universities, and the SLB. However
panels, ad-hoc committees, task forces, and national and international
advisory groups will be established as and when needed. Full
implementation authority will be delegated by FME to NUC. The PIU
established under the FME Directorate of International Education initially
for coordinating activities of the Technical Education Project (Ln. 2926-
UNI) will assist NUC in implementation in those few aspects that must
necessarily remain the responsibility of the FME, including liaison with
other Federal agencies. During initial program start up the PIU will also
provide guidance to NUC on Bank procedures.
67.       Strengthening NUC.  Four measures will be taken to strengthen
NUC. Firstly, the Executive Secretary has appointed a high level, full
time program co-ordinator who will have overall responsibility for drawing
on NUC resources for program implementation and who will be able to talk to
serving Vice Chancellors with sufficient status and authority. He will
play a key role in encouraging universities to meet the eligibility
criteria, and in monitoring achievements. He will also have overall
responsibility for reporting on program implementation. Secondly, five
additional professional staff will be appointed to the academic planning
division; nine (and two local consultants) to the finance department; and
six to the statistics end records department. In total, the professional
staff of NUC will be increased from 69 in July 1989, to 89 by July 1990.
As far as possible these staff will be drawn from the universities.
Thirdly, NUC will carry out studies on the social and geographical impact
of the increasing levels of fees and other charges borne by university
students. Fourthly, equipment panels will be set up, drawing their members
partly from those who prepared the reports on minimum academic standards.
These panels will start by preparing the specifications of the .st
essential and commonly used items of equipment. A library panel will also
be set up to establish criteria for purchase and sharing ot expensive
journals between universities. Full details of the proposals for
ctrengthening NUC, and for simplifying procurement and monitoring
procedures to enable it to speedily and effectively manage program
implementation, are included in Annex 5.
68.       NUC Studies Fund.  A special fund will be held by NUC to be used
to contract university research organizations to carry out studies which
will help lead to the successful implementation of the program. Some of
the research to be carried out will merely involve analyses of what is
happening at various universities, and a synthesis of these experiences;
for example on methods of retiring old book stocks from libraries, or on
the running of university consultancy services. Other research will be



- 21 -
designed to lead to changes in curriculum or programs common to several
universities and/or faculties; for example courses to provide graduates
with the skills they will need to set themselves up in self employment, and
make maximum use of the facilities afforded by the National Directorate of
Employment. The third and most crucial area of research will be on the
social impact of the program - the impact of staff redundancies on the
community surrounding the university, the impact of universities closing
down remedial programs, and the impact of increasing user charges or the
enrollment of vulnerable groups. Already there is partial evidence of a
change J  Lhe socio-economic background of university students.  During the
1960's v.rtually all university students received either federal or state
scholarships to finance their studies.  By 1985/86 this had failen to 28%.
The impact of the increasing private burden is that between 1960 and 1985
the proportion of students from the higher income brac.ketf n.as increased,
as bas; the proportion of students from t:>he southern half of tha country.
The average age of the student body has been decreasing, the proportion of
married students has been falling, whilst female participation rates have
been rising, and now stands around 25Z. Since 1985, private costs of
university education have increased significantly with the removal of
feeding subsidies, and the increase in the costs of books and other
supplies, and are now between N1,500 and N3,000. There are indications
that in recent years there have been further reductions in the number and
size of scholarships. It is thus important to continuously monitor the
impact of increasing user charges on vulnerable groups, so that SLB
resources and the increasing state scholarships promised during
negotiations can be more precisely targeted.
69.       International Advisory Panel.  In order to ensure that the
reforms taking place in the Nigerian university system can benefit from
similar reforms and initiatives taking place in other countries, a high
level international panel of six renowned scholars will be appointed. This
panel will advise on how to improve the quality of teaching and research
(especially in sc4entific disciplines) in the participating universities.
Members would thus have to advise the library and equipment panels
mentioned in paragraph 67 above; assist in the selection of appropriate
universities for doctoral studies for Nigerian faculty; and advise
universities on how to meet the eligibility and accreditation criteria.
Each of the international panel members would have a high level Nigerian
academic as a counterpart, and together they would form the advisory group
for the program. The panel would meet twice a year in Nigeria, each time
involving up to two weeks of visits to universities, and two or three days
of formal discussions. In between visits, members of the panel would be
available to help place Nigerian faculty in appropriate post-graduate
training programs, and respond to other questions. All the members of the
panel would have had experience of reform and accreditation exercises in
other developing countries; half would be experts in scientific
disciplines; and the remaining three in library development, management,
and accreditation. This panel should help ensure that the program results
in a significant improvement in teaching and research, thus increasing its
acceptability to the university community.
70.       Strengthening University Management.  Universities will have to
become more cost conscious, more efficient in managing the use of their
scarce resources, and develop stronger systems of control of staffing and



- 22 -
expenditures. Helping universities in these areas is obviously a
continuous process and is currently being supported by the Overseas
Development Administration (UK), and to a lesser extent by other donors, in
addition to indigenous activities. Howevex before credit funds begin to be
available a series of special seminars and training programs are being held
to help the university community prepare for implementation, as follows:
(a) Introduction to the eligibility criteria (for key university
officials)
(b) Keeping good records (for academic planners)
(c)  Financial management and accounting (for bursars)
(d) Maniagement principLes (for Vice Chancellors)
In addition all universities have established small program implementation
committees, headed by a high level member of university staff.  Many of
these committees have a small secretariat. The committees are responsible
for keeping the Vice Chancellor informed about the status of implementation
of the eligibility criteria, and for consolidating requests for books,
journals, equipment and training from different faculties.
71.       Strengthening SLB.  A number of measures are needed to enable
SLB to play its intended role. Firstly, senior staff must be recruited to
head the key divisions of planning, loans, finance, and personnel, along
with key professionals for the computer unit. Secondly, one third (or
about 100) of the junior staff currently employed should be retrenched due
to overstaffing. Thirdly, the 1988 decree re-establishing the board will
need to be amended to enable the maximum loans payable to students to be
increased at the discretion of the Federal Ministry of Education and/or
SLB. Fourthly, proposals for the longer-term financing of student loans
will have to be developed and agreed with Government. Finally, a detailed
preparation, feasibility and pre-investment study of an expanded SLB,
alternative financial intermediary, or educational bank should be rapidly
undertaken. The background to these proposals for strengthening SLB is
given in Annex 6. In addition, the work of SLB's local consultants on
specifying the computer systems needed should be completed.
E. Financing the Program
72.       Government Grants.  In 1989, total Federal recurrent grants to
the university system were 1616 million, of which N38.3 million was a
special SAP relief grant. Of the remainder, 1519 million was the block
recurrent grant of which N13 million was for sub-degree colleges outside
the universities. In addition to Government grants, approximately US$8
million p.a. (N57.6 million) was being received from foreign donors the
most important of which are EEC, Ford Foundation, and UK ODA (Annex 7.7).
Annexes 7.5 and 7.6 show the evolution of recurrent and capital grants to
the Federal university system. Over the period 1990/91 to 1993/94 it is
estimated that of the total costs (public and private) of Federal
university education 57.3Z will come from the Federal budget, 17.6Z from
students, 16.2Z from credit funds, 5Z from other donors, and 3.92 from
university income generation (Annex 7.8). Since the Federal Government's



-  23  -
policy is currently to devote increasing attention to expanding and
improving primary education, it is planned that over the next few years
there will be no significant real increase in Federal Government recurrent
allocations to Federal universities (but see para. 80). There will thus be
a 20X fall in real Federal Government allocations per student from 1989 to
1993, as enrollments are expected to expand by 20Z, but the effect will be
offset by the savings and new revenues of at least N120 million p.a.
expected by the end of the program (para. 63). There will also be
substantial improvements in effectiveness due to better allocation and more
efficient use of the scarce resources available.
73.       In addition to the block and other recurrent grants paid to
universities, NUC will also make available loans of up to M60 million from
the contingency and pension funds it maintains through retaining 0.5Z to
1.02 of the recurrent blc'k grants.  These interest-free loans will be used
sole'y for paying tetmination and other redundancy payments (para. 56) and
will be repayable over ten years through automatic deductions from the
block recurrent grant.
74.       It is expected that Federal Government capital grants to
universities will continue at a relatively low level of around N150 million
p.a. (in constant 1989 prices) (the 1990 allocation is an exceptional one).
No significant real increase can be expected (except as described in para.
80) given competing demands on the Federal capital educational budget from
the polytechnics and national unity (secondary) schools. Half of this
annual allocation will be needed to carry out essential maintenance and
rehabilitation of buildings and infrastructure, and the remaining half to
support the completion of key buildings, especially libraries at second
generation universities, and initial developments on the permanent campuses
of third generation universities. These funds will also be supplemented
through a drawing down on the balance remaining from previous capital
grants. These modest allocations will be sufficient during the next three
to four years, as through a more imaginative programming of available
space, projected student numbers can be largely catered for. However as
increasing numbers of third generation universities start major
developments at isolated "permanent" sites, there will in the longer run be
a need for substantial increases in capital grants to finance
infrastructure and buildings. In addition when this operation comes to an
end, alternative sources of funding will be needed for some of the books,
journals, maintenance and spare parts proposed for financing under this
program.
75.       Credit Funds.  Under the proposed IDA credit, a total of
US$116.5 million will be made available to eligible universities to
strengthen undergraduate and postgraduate teaching and research over a
period of about four years from mid-1990 to mid-1994. This will add up to
16.2Z of total public and private resources available for the Federal
university education over this period rising fro- 17.81 in 1990/91 to 18.4z
in 1991/92, and thence falling to 17.7? in 1992;-3 and 11.3% in 1993/94.
(Annex 7.8).  The vast proportion of these credit funds will be used to
compensate for a lack of essential imports over the past five years. For
example, in one university journal subscriptions have been reduced from
6,000 to 317, another university has less than 5,000 books in its library,
few first or second generation universities have more than 402 of their



-  24  -
scientific and technological equipment operating, and book and equipment
purchases directly from abroad using foreign exchange have fallen to little
more than US$1 million annually for the entire university system. Once the
program is completed, it is important to ensure that sufficient funds are
budgeted to at least maintain university equipment and library stocks at
the levels reached through this operation.
76.       Despite the fact that 5Z of the NUC block grant to universities
is supposed to be devoted to purchasing books and journals and running
libraries, in most universities actual allocations have been very much
lower than this because of over expenditure on salaries. In order to
ensure that every department has at least ten journal subscriptions, and
that a five year baclbilog is catered for, US$12.8 miilion will be required;
whilst to build up book stocks to at least 20 volumes per student, and to
replace 10% of the existing 3 million volumes held by universities, US$41.1
million will be required, making a total of US$53.9 million. It is
expected that universities will provide US$10.9 million of this from their
own resources, increasing from US$2.5 million in 1989 to US$4.5 million in
1993, leaving US$43 million to be financed from external sources. In
addition, in order to assist universities in modernizing their library
services, US$300,000 for each first and second generation university, and
US$150,000 for each third generation university, will be needed for library
equipment, making a total of US$5.0 million.
77.       There is approximately US$217 million of equipment held by
universities of which over one third is either irreparable or so out of
date that it is not worth repairing; and a further 202 is not working and
in need of major repairs. In order to repair this equipment it has been
estimated that US$11.7 million will be required, and in addition needed
spares to keep the remaining equipment functional will cost US$4.5 million
per year. Each university will also require about US$0.5 million to equip
its own maintenance unit with basic tools and diagnostic instruments.
Currently NUC budgeting parameters only suggest an allocation of 9% of
total recurrent revenues to maintenance of building and plant. This 9Z
will provide US$6.3 million p.a. rising to US$8.2 million, but only about
one third of this could go to equipment maintenance, which is only enough
for normal annual maintenance after the repairs. Of the total cost of
maintenance and spare parts of US$35.2 million over the period 1990-1993,
it is estimated that US$7.2 million will be financed by universities from
their block grant, with US$28 million required from external funds.
78.       If all scientific departments were to be equipped to the levels
proposed in the approved minimum academic standards reports approximately
US$380 million of scientific and technological equipment would be required.
Taking Eccount of the US$136 million of functional and repairable equipment
currently estimated to be held by universities, US$244 million of new
equipment would be needed. Not even in the halcyon days of the oil boom
was anywhere near this magnitude of equipment being procured. Through
pruning the lists, largely by limiting purchases of expensive items needed
for specialized research purposes only to a few universities, and ensuring
more intensive use of standardized items, the total requirement can be
reduced to around US$202 million, which would mean that US$66 million of
new equipment would be required. Furthermore, during appraisal it was felt
that not only would it be impossible to procure such a large quantity of



-  25  -
equipment in a three year period, but also universities would find it
difficult to install so much equipment rapidly. It was thus decided to
phase procurement over six years so that the requirement over the period of
this oparation will be only US$33 million, of which US$5 million will come
from the universities' own funds and contributions from other donors,
leaving US$28 million to be financed through the credit. It was agreed
during negotiations that a small proportion of this allocation couli be
used to finance individually expensive but essential consumables. Funding
for the remaining US$33 million will be sought from external sources over
the period 1993-1995.
79.       There are serious shortages of scientific and technological.
academic staff, especially in the second and third generation universities
in the ncrzh of the country. Ttere is ain ongoing program - the Nigerian
Expatriate Supplementation Scheme (NESS) which provides small expatriation
benefits ranging from USS1,000 to US$6,000 p.a., to attract foreign staff.
There are three scales, one for staff from Eastern Europe and Asia, one for
staff from Western Europe and one for staff from USA. As funds are only
available for small supplements, the majority of existing expatriates come
from Eastern Europe and the Far East. This regular program will continue
on a diminishing scale, financed from funds currently held by NUC for this
purpose (US$4 million). As a part of a staff development and enrichment
program under this operation, three hundred higher qualified staff will be
recruited almost entirely in scientific disciplines for the four years of
this program, and in addition to being involved in direct teaching will
also hold workshops to upgrade the quality of Nigerian teachers. These
staff will be paid an average annual supplement of US$8,400. Six hundred
Nigerian academic staff will also be given the opportunity to spend up to
two years of their doctoral studies in the universities from which these
expatriates are drawn, with the remaining one to two years spent in
Nigerian universities. The final degree will be awarded in Nigeria by a
Nigerian university.
80.       Long-Term Budgetary Impact of the Program.  Though credit funds
are being largely used to finance capital items and a backlog of imports of
goods and services, beyond 1993 a substantial increase in recurrent grants
will be needed in the areas of book and journal provision, equipment
maintenance, and to a lesser and non-quantifiable extent staff development.
These increases are necessary if the impact of the program is to be
sustained over the long run. From data in paras. 76 and 77, the longer-
term budget of the program can be shown as follows:



- 26 -
Table 4. Long-Term Budget Impact of Program
(US$ million)
Additional
Government
Annual Provision    Government    Budget
Credit and Budget      Budget      Required
Backlog     1990/91-1992/93       1993/94        1993/94
Journals               8.0              1.6)
Books                 20.4              6.9)              4.5            4.0
Maintenance           11.7              4.5 (3.4 in        2.8            5.6
1993/94)
Total                 39.3             19.4               7.3            9.6
Thus, in 1989 prices the Federal Government block recurrent grant to
universities will have to be increased by N69 million in 1993/94, if the
levels of book and journal provision, and equipment maintenance are to be
held at the levels reached during the program. This increase is only 91 of
the current level of university budget allocations, which themselves
account for about one half of the total education budget. The total
Federal government budget is expected to grow by several percontage points
per annum in real terms in future, and education is expected to maintain
its share. In the early years this increase in the total education budget
is expected to go mainly to non-university sectors of education; after
1993/94 the shift away from universities can be moderated to accommodate
the extra expenditures required to keep up allocations for book and journal
provision and for equipment maintenance. Even with these increases real
Government per student allocations will be 11? less than their 1989 levels.
81.       Total Credit Requirements.  As can be seen from the following
table, if all universities were to meet all the eligibility criteria, total
foreign exchange of US$135 million would be required over the three years
covered by this program. However, the best estimate is that 20
universities would meet the first tranche criteria, 18 would meet the
second tranche criteria, and 14 would meet the third tranche criteria
(para. 65). Thus only US$116.5 million would be used. In addition US$2.5
million is needed to support NUC (para. 24 of Annex 5), and US$1.0 million
to support SLB (para. 15 of Annex 6), making a total credit requirement of
US$120.0 million.



-  27  -
Table 5. Total Foreign Exchange Requirements from
Credit Funds, By Age of Universities
(US$ million)
1st           2nd             3rd
Generation    Generation      Generation        Total
Library Books
and Journals                 21             16               6             43
Library Eq'ipmne:it           2              2               1              5
Staff Development             3              8              10             21
Expatriation Paymen!:s        2              4               4             10
Maintenance & Spart Parts   14             1,               2             28
New Equipment                 3              7              18             28
Total                     45             49              41           135
Drawing Limits by
Tranche by University      2.50           2.33            1.95          2.24
Number of Universities
likely to meet (lst),
(2nd), (3rd) year's
Eligibility Criteria  (6)(5)(4)    (7)(6)(5)         (7)(7)(5)  (20)(18)(14)
---------------------------------------------------
Total Requirements        37.50          41.95           37.05        116.50
82.       The overall priorities established in the use of credit funds
have been discussed. The actual priorities, however, will differ from
university to university. Some universities for example, have little or no
scientific equipment needing repair; other universities need little support
for staff development. Thus each university, as soon as it meets the first
tranche eligibility criteria, will be asked to present, for the
consideration of NUC, its plan for the use of the credit funds it is
entitled to, and which it expects to be entitled to when it meets second
and third tranche criteria. In this plan, there are four points NUC will
have to consider, namely:
(a) All book and journal requirements over the three year period of
the loan will be included. These must be at least 5Z of the
university's anticipated recurrent revenues.
(b) The requirements for getting all major repairable and useful
non-working equipment operational must be included.



- 28 -
(c)  The allocation for maintenance and spare parts should be at
least double the allocation for new equipment in first
generation universities, and 50% of that for new equipment in
second generation universities.
(d)  New items of equipment will only be approved if they can be
fully justified, and if they m3et standardization criteria.
Large items costing US$40,000 or more will require special
approval by an equipment panel prior to being procured.
83.       If during program implementation more universities than expected
seem likely to meet the eligibility criteria, additional external donor
support will be sought. Given current probabilhities, there seems little
pcint in proposing a larger credit, and thus imposing heavier than
necessary commitment charges on the Federal Governmsent, on the ass'.mption
that all universities will meet all criteria.
F.  Credit Justification and Management
84.       Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The Federal Government has
embarked on a far reaching program of reform of the federal university
system, which aims on the one hand to improve the overall effectiveness of
the system, and on the other hand to free Federal resources for the
expansion and improvement of other levels of education, especially primary.
Despite severe resource constraints, and virtually no foreign assistance,
the basic foundation for the reforms has been built, and many significant
actions already taken. IDA, by supporting these reforms, will help ensure
both that they are completed and that they remain consistent with reforms
in other sectors. The university reforms are part of the Government's
broader program of public sector reforms, which are partly motivated by a
need to adjust and improve public finances; but they also have an
independent justification in their important education objectives.
85.       The proposed credit operation of US$120 million is designed to
provide the overwhelming majority of the 20 existing federal universities
with the necessary incentive for them to continue along an often difficult
reform path, whilst at the same time giving them access to sufficient
foreign exchange for them to rehabilitate their academic infrastructure.
It will also help universities meet the minimum academic standards recently
approved by Government which will be necessary if their courses and
programs are to be accredited. As the first major Bank operation directed
at supporting a university reform program in sub-Saharan Africa, it will
also incidentally provide lessons from which other African countries may be
able to draw useful guidelines. The implementation of these reforms will
result in additional revenues/savings expected to be at least N120 million
p.a. and potentially up to N131 million p.a. by the end of the operation.
86.       Program Implementation and Review.  Key elements of the Federal
Government's reform package for federal universities are outlined in the
letter entitled "Government Policies for the Development of Federal
Universities' of April 1990 (Annex 1). The main conditions for first,
second, and third tranche release are that universities with substantial
proportions of total system enrollments have met the respective eligibility
criteria. The eligibility criteria are outlined in paragraphs 56 to 62,



-  29  -
and in attachment I of Annex 2. It is proposed that each of the three
tranches should be the equivalent of US$40 million. Conditions of tranche
releases are included in Attachment II of Annex 2. The most important can
be summarized as follows:
Before Effectiveness
o    No special conditions.
Before Release of the Second Tranche
o    universities with at least 50X of total system undergraduate
enrollments in Federal universities will have met the first
year's eligibility criteria, while universities wirth 35% of such
enrollments will have ,aet the second year's eligibility
criteria;
o    confixmLtiorL that FME's share ef the 1991 Federal budget Is
mdintained at least at its 1989 level;
o    the lodging fee for students in hostels on Federal university
campuses has been increased to at least N180 per bed-space per
session for 1990/91 academic year;
Before Release of the Third Tranche
o    universities with at least 50% of total system undergraduate
enrollments in Federal universities will have met the second
year's eligibility criteria, while universities with 35% of such
enrollments will have met the third year's eligibility criteria;
o    the accreditation exercise in all the Federal universities will
have been completed, the accreditation status of all programs
publicized, and the universities informed of time-bound remedial
action they will have to take on all programs that have not met
the criteria;
o    during the 1991/92 academic year all Federal universities shall
have achieved NUC guidelines with respect to the maximum
proportion of the block recurrent grants that may be spent on
personnel emoluments;
o    confirmation that the FME's share of the 1992 Federal budget is
maintained at least at its 1989 level;
o    the first of the periodic reviews of the lodging fees will have
been completed.
87.       IDA, and the Federal Government through the NUC, will jointly
monitor the program at specific intervals: for credit effectiveness; one
year after credit effectiveness; and two years after crpdit effectiveness.
Prior to each annual review the Federal Goverrment will provide the
Association with a report on the progress being achieved under this



-  30  -
program, and in addition, will seek the approval of IDA before declaring
any university eligible to draw on first or second tranche funds. This
review will analyze the previous year's expenditures, and the current
year's Federal Education budget, including that for federal universities.
In addition, the review would ensure adherence to program objectives,
tranche release conditions, and performance targets. Agreements on the use
of the credit proceeds, and on other issues raised at the time of the
annual review will be recorded in an exchange of letters after each review.
Supplementary data on the credit and implementation of the program are
presented in Annex 3 containing NUC staffing and costing parameters; Annex
4 showinig the staffing implications of the parameters; Annex 5 on the role
of NUC in program implementation; Annex 6, on the SLB.  Annex 7 presents
scme background stati ?tical data. Prc.jectel disbursaments are shown in
Annex 8.
88,       Status of Credit Preparation.  A sector study "Nigeria, Costs
and Financing of Universiti.3s' took place during 1987 and has been
distuibuted to the E-xeruti.ve Dire~ctors (No. 692C0-UNI, dated December 30,
1988).  Policy discuss-ons werz held between the Bank, the Federal
Government, the NUC and the universities in April and November 1988, and
January and March 1989. In June 1989, the Federal Government presented its
"Federal Universities Adjustment Loan Project Document" to the Bank.
Appraisal took place in July 1989. All universities are aware of the
eligibility criteria, and in many, significant steps have already been
taken towards meeting the first year's criteria. After negotiations in
December 1989, the Executive Secretary of NUC formally called all Vice
Chancellors of the Federal Universities to a meeting, distributed a
brochure on the program and instructed them on the steps they would have to
take to meet the criteria. In addition, procedures have been developed for
the procurement of books and journals, and equipment which will ensure
rapid disbursement of credit funds (para. 91).
89.       Credit Management.  The implementation of these reforms and the
management of credit funds are seen as integral parts of the functions of
NUC.  Apart from the international advisory panel the only external
technical support required is from three groups of procurement agents: one
to deal with the purchase of books, one with the purchase of journals, and
one with the purchase of equipment and spare parts. Overall policy for
federal universities will remain the responsibility of the Federal Minister
of Education. Responsibility for liaison with other Federal agencies and
donors will also rest with the Federal Minister of Education.
90.       Use of Credit Proceeds.  Apart from US$3.5 million of credit
funds being used for the institutional support of SLB and NUC, the
remaining US$116.5 million (over 97Z) of the proposed credit is to be used
to finance the foreign exchange costs of imported goods and services
benefitting participating federal universities.
91.       Procurement.  All procurement for all universities will be done
centrally by NUC, using procurement agents. Universities will submit lists
to the NUC of the goods and services they require according to their plan
and drawing limits (see para. 82); the procurement agents will consolidate
the orders. The procurement planning and packaging will be discussed with
the Bank. The procurement agents for books, for journals, and for



-  31  -
equipment and spare parts will be selected through competitive bidding in
accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers. The agents for books and for journals are expected to offer a
fixed discount off published prices, and thereafter book and journal lists
will be submitted and the agents will invoice on the publishers' list
prices, discounted as agreed. For equipment, in order to ensure
standardization, in the first bid for a particular item of equipment,
manufacturers will be asked to quote prices, not only for the quantity in
this first bid, but also for an option to purchase further items with the
same specifications during the following two years. Eighty percent of new
equipment financed by the credit will be items on the standard lists to be
put out by NUC. Proprietary spare parts may be procured by direct contract
with the original manufacturer or its authorized agent; non-proprietary
spares may be procured by ICB or limited international bidding (LIB) at the
liscretion of NIUC. These processes will enable procurement to take place
rapidly and simply once agents have been selected, or firsr orders placed.
Within this overall process, (a) all equipment contracts will be subject to
ICB. (b) ail expatriaticn benefits, and costs of overseas training will be
paid according to agreed standar6ized norms, and (c) all payments of
incremental salaries, in-country training costs, and other recurrent costs
will be through normal NUC procedures.  Prior IDA review of all contracts
and procurement decisions exceeding US$500,000 will be required. The
operation's procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Table 6. Amounts and Methods of Procurement
Proiect Elements               ICB      LCB         LIB        Other     Total
-----(US$ million)-----------------
Library Books
and Journals                 37.1        -         -                     37.1
Staff Development               -          -         -          18.7       18.7
Expatriation Payments           -          -          -          8.6        8.6
Maintenance                     _    -                -          4.3        4.3
Spare Parts                    10.0        -        5.0          4.8       19.8
New Equipment and
Consumables                  26.0      3.5         -            -        29.5
Consultant Services             -          -          -          0.8        0.8
Incremental
Operating Expenses            -          -         -           1.2        1.2
Studies & Training
TOTALS                   73.1       3.5        5.0         38.4     120.0
All amounts include contingencies but exclude duties and taxes, and are
financed entirely by the credit.
92.       Disbursements.  Provided the Federal Government maintains the
agreed implementation of the program, funds will be released in three



-  32  -
tranches to the NUC. These funds will be used to finance the c.i.f. costs
of books and journals; equipment, and spare parts; foreign currency
expatriation payments; and offshore costs of staff development, for
universities that meet agreed eligibility criteria; and inqtitution-
building for NUC and SLB. Disbursements under the proposed credit will be
on the basis of 100Z of the c.i.f. costs and 90Z of the goods, and 1002 of
the foreign exchange costs of services.  In addition, in any one year an
amount not exceeding US$500,000 (1.5Z of the credit) of local currency
expenditures to support NUC and SLB will be eligible for disbursement.  For
these local currency expenditures, simplified disbursement procedures on
the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) will be allowed. Retroactive
financing up to US$4.0 million would be allowed for eligible expenditures
after January 1, 1990.
93.       Special AccourL.  A Special Accourtt of US$7 million will be
opened and mdintained in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA, to meet eligible expenditures for goods and services.
Replenishinent will be made against full documentation, except for those
ftems eligible for reimbursement on the basis of SOEs as outlined in para.
9. above.  Replenishment applications wouid be accormpanied by monthly
statements from the commercial bank, cross-referenced by NUC to the related
application. Amounts to be replenished would take into account the tranche
limits.
94.       Auditing, Monitoring and Reporting.  NUC, the universities and
SLBs will maintain separate accounts. All project accounts, including the
special account, will be audited annually by an independent auditor
satisfactory to IDA.  The auditor's report will include a separate opinion
regarding the amounts withdrawn on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Continuous monitoring of the progress of the reform program will be the
responsibility of the NUC.  Near the end of the three-year credit period
there will be a review of the achievement of the reform objectives by IDA
and the Federal Government in order to ensure that all conditions under
this operation have been met. Finally, the Federal Government has agreed
that:  (a) it would submit proposals declaring that any university has met
first or second tranche eligibility criteria to IDA for its prior approval,
(b) it would submit semi-annual progress reports to IDA, and (c) within six
months of the credit's closing date, it would submit a report on program
implementation achievement to IDA.
95.       Credit Risks and Benefits.  There are four main risks to this
operation. First, the Government is likely to be criticized by its
opponents amongst faculty and students if seen to be bowing to pressure
from the Bank to force universities to restructure their operations.
Second, universities might agree to implement the eligibility criteria, but
the NUC could find it difficult to effectively monitor their
implementation. Third, students will protest against fee increases and
increased accommodation charges. Fourth, the universities might find the
process of reducing staff too traumatic, fraught with legal battles and
generally not worth the increased access to foreign exchange. The first
risk can be reduced by continuously drawing attention to the fact that all
the reforms being supported by the operation are Nigeria's own, and the
Bank is merely supporting the Government's own program. The second risk
can be minimized by strengthening the staff of the NUC, by involving



-  33  -
renowned high level local and foreign academics, by developing effective
information systems, by training university staff in the details of the
criteria prior to implementation, and finally by obtaining a high level of
political support for the reforms. The third risk can be reduced by
continuously monitor4ng the impact of the program on vulnerable groups by
having the student loan service operational for hardship cases, and by
explaining that increasing fees is the only way additional students can be
enrolled and quality enhanced. The fourth problem can be minimized by
preceding the retrenchment with a freeze. In this way, since increasing
student enrollments will require additional staff, the actual redundancies
will be fewer than the notional reductions calculated by comparing staff
needed under old and new parameters.
96.       Benefits.  By supporting the Federal. Covernment's university
reform program., the credit operatior. will help produce  tch short- and
long-term benefits leading to a better quality, less expensire and more
cost-effective university system, equipped to p'Lay a miore dynamrix role in
the development of the country.  Unit costs borne bvy the Federal Goverlment
would decrease.  A greater proport .on cf available resources would be
devoted to teaching and research as opposed to administration and municipal
services. Enrollment growth in arts and social sciences will be strictly
controlled so that the scarce resources available can be used to expand
effective programs in science and technology, areas where there is expected
to be a larger long-term manpower demand. Inputs essential for good
teaching and research, and for the achievement of minimum academic
standards, such as books, journals, equipment and spare parts, and
qualified staff will be provided, thus ensuring both immediate and
sustained improvements in educational quality. These improvements,
combined with a more effective system of providing loans to needy students,
will make an increase in charges to students more acceptable, particularly
at the postgraduate level. In the medium- to longer-term, the credit
operation will result in the development of a national system of higher
education, through encouraging the evolution of centers of excellence, and
the sharing of expensive inputs among universities. In addition, the
operation will result in a greatly increased emphasis on equipment
maintenance, through a standardization of equipment, and the development of
maintenance facilities at all universities. Finally, by becoming more
cost-effective, and by raising increasing proportions of revenues from non-
governmental sources, not only will an improved quality and expanding
university system be sustainable with more limited Federal Government
subventions, but also resources will be freed to support developments in
other levels of education. The improvements in the system will be the best
guarantee of the sustainability of the reforms, as there will be no
incentive to return to the present situation of the universities.
V. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
97.       Since the Bank's first lending operation in Nigeria in 1958,  a
total of US$5,332.1 million of IBRD and IDA resources (net of
cancellations) has been committed to 80 operations in the country as of
March 31, 1990. Three of these were IDA credits (totalling US$140.8
million equivalent) of which two have been fully disbursed. Total



-  34  -
disbursements of IBRD loans amounted to US$3,410.3 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$1,770.3 million.  US$843 million of IBRD loans
and US$10.6 million of IDA credits have been repaid. Bank operations in
Nigeria include projects in agriculture (accounting for one-third of total
IBRD/IDA commitments), industry, energy, transport, and urban and water
supply (each sector group accounting for about 10 percent). The combined
sectors of education, health and population account for a relatively small
share (less than 5 percent). Two structural adjustment loans in recent
years have been responsible for one fifth of total IBRD/JDA resources
committed to Nigeria. IFC loans and equity investments since 1964 have
amounted to US$70.3 million (as of March 31, 1990); about 85 percent of
these were for manufacturing industries.
98.       Objectives.  The primary objective of the Bank's assistance
program is to help Nigeria achieve sustained growth and develcprnerit.  This
implies action on two broad fronts:  first, to help rnaintair, and deepen the
reform program and provide the enabling environment that. will promote a
robust supply response; and seconid, to help put together the external
financing that is essential to keep the economy and the reform progran
rmoving forward. These objectives are being addressed through the Bank'a
lending program and dialogue with the government and the international
financial community.
99.       Profile of Lending.  A significant but declining share of the
Bank's proposed lending program of US$2.8 billion over FY90-92 will consist
of quick-disbursing policy-based operations. After the Budgetary and
Financial Policy Loan (BFPL), further adjustment lending will be considered
to support sector policies relating to areas such as fertilizer, the
environment, and population.  These policy-based lending operations will be
supplemented by a broad progr., of sector activities, with about 6 projects
per year. The project lending is aimed at growth and poverty alleviation
and establishing the basis for long term sustainability of improved living
standards.
100.      Growth.  Substantial improvements in the physical environment
are essential for private sector growth: the provision of adequate power,
transportation, water, and telecommunications. This will require continued
close attention to the Government's public expenditure priorities, which
the Bank is supporting through BFPL. In addition, the Bank proposes to
finance specific lending operations to support each of these sector areas,
and through sector dialogue and work on specific projects to increase the
awareness of the high economic costs of deteriorating infrastructure.
Achieving the targeted 4 percent annual growth in agricultural production
will require a major reorientation of public sector expenditures with a
larger private sector role in project execution. Broadly speaking, the
Bank's approach is to establish the framework for the development of
private markets and increases in private investment in agriculture through
the provision of essential public services and the appropriate policy
environment. In these areas, the lending program includes national
projects in seeds, tree crops, zesearch and extension, and livestock. In
addition, particular attention is being given to establish assistance for
increasing the timely availability of feitilizer and to rationalize
existing large scale irrigation ventures, as well as to accelerate small-
scale irrigation development. Other areas of concern are the provision of



-  35  -
rural infrastructure, the mobilization of rural savings for intermediation
to productive private investment, and increased private sector involvement
in commercially viable farm services.
101.      Poverty Alleviation.  The Bank is assisting the government in a
study of food security that will design an action program to improve food
production in deficit areas and target food to distressed groups. We are
also planning to study health education and insurance programs, and are
undertaking a study of urban transport problems. The work should point
toward programs that could help attract concessional aid financing.
Proposed Bank investments in health, education, and rural water supplies
will also help introduce at the household level quick positive benefits
from the country's reform program. Nigerians pay too much for drugs and
textbooks, the two key inputs that make a difference in providing quality
care and education; both of these problems are being addressed through Bank
projects.
102.      Long Run Sustainability.  For long run sustainability, the
critical issues are closely interrelated--population, environment, and
agriculture. Rapidly growing population undermines the environment and the
productive base for agriculture, even as existing technology and land
tenure systems encourage large farm families. The Bank has been assisting
efforts Lo reduce population growth through integration of family planning
units into primary health care services. These efforts are now being
accelerated by financing support for the implementation of the government's
recently developed national population policy, and by Bank assistance to
coordinate with bilateral and multilateral agencies to increase resources
for population programs, as well as to encourage increased and more
effective participation by NGOs. Meanwhile, the Bank is assisting the
government to address selected key environmental issues, such as
desertification, soil erosion, industrial pollution, and marine resource
protection. Much of this work is being initiated through sector project
activities, particularly in agriculture (desertification) and
infrastructure (soil erosion). We plan to continue to support work in
these areas through related project financing and technical assistance,
such as the projects in forestry and roads, but in addition, to work with
the govermnent, as indicated above, through an environmental SECAL to
design an appropriate policy and institutional framework.
103.      Program Size.  Bank commitments of IBRD resources to Nigeria
from FY81-88 averaged only about US$324 million annually. However, the
lending program has expanded rapidly, with the two structural adjustment
operations in FY87 and FY89 (TPED and TIPL) contributing significantly to
the increase. IT; FY90-95, the annual commitment level is expected to
average about US$1 billion. Over the next few years, exposure of the Bank
will rise as gross disbursements of IBRD resources increase rapidly,
boosted by the fast disbursing adjustment loans and the growing portfolio.
The IBRD share in total Nigerian debt is estimated to be about 9 percent at
end-1989; IBRD debt service as a percentage of Nigeria's total public debt
service (after rescheduling) in 1989 about 14 percent; and IBRD debt
service as a percentage of exports of goods and non-factor services in 1989
about 4 percent. These percentages are likely to rise somewhat in 1990 and
1991, depending on the availability of additional non-IBRD sources of
external financing and the possibilities for debt rescheduling or



-  36  -
reduction. The resumption of IDA lending to Nigeria, though at a modest
annual level of about SDR75 million per year in FY89-90, will moderate the
increase in debt service due to the Bank in the medium term. The IBRD debt
service/export ratio is projected to fall to 4.4 percent by 1997. Without
IDA, i.e., if all Bank lending were to be through IBRD, that ratio would be
4.9 percent in 1997.
104.      Implementation.  Underpinning the overall Bank program is
Nigeria's ability to improve implementation. This is one of the most
critical constraints to the country's overall development program and has
been dramatized by the poor performance of the Bank's lending program. The
problems relate to institutional capacity, bureaucratic layering,
cumbersome procedures, and highly centralized decision-making. They are
compounded by the sheer size of Nigetia and its cultural and tribal
diversity. The Bank is working closely with the government on a number of
fronts to reduce processing delays and accelerate project disbursements;
strengthened ministerial staffing, regular project implementation reviews,
increased target setting and accountability, standardization of procurement
procedures and more efficient processing, and strengthened Bank
supervision. In addition, the Bank is discussing with government
analytical work to identify problems relating to the government's overall
investment program, their costs, and to recommend approaches to improve
procedures.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
105.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Development Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 30, 1990



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
TRANSCRIPT
Federal Ministry of Education
Ahmadu Bello Way, Victoria Island,
Lagos, Federal Republic of Nigeria
Ref. No. HME/FMG/74A
30th April, 1990
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington DC 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Conable:
Government Policies for the Development
of Federal Universities
I am writing to you in zonnection with the proposed Federal Universities
Development Sector Adjustment Operation to inform the International
Development Association about the reforms in the federal university system
that the Government has already implemented and those it is planning to
implement. Through a process of accrediting, restructuring, rehabilitating
and reforming the federal university system, Government ultimately aims to
encourage the development of a more cost effective and relevant system in
which its own share in financing will fall from its existing high level. On
the more substantive side particular focus will be devoted to increasing the
quality of university education, especially on teaching students in scientific
and technological disciplines, as this is not only where employment prospects
are best, but also where graduates can have the most significant impact on the
direction of Nigeria's development.
2.    As you are aware mure than seven years ago Government introduced a new
6:3:3:4 structure for the education system. Though implementation has
proceeded at different rates in different states, by 1992 this new system will
be in place throughout the Federation. Many of the reforms currently being
undertaken at the university level can be seen as a logical extension of this
restructuring of the school system.
3.    Over the past few years Government has started a process designed to
lower the budgetary costs per studsnt in federal universities whilsL at th?
same time enhancing quality and relevance. To this end a series of important
measures have been taken. For example the authority of the National



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
University Commission (NUC) was strengthened with Decree 16 of 1985.  In the
same year the committee established by Government to study university
curricula submitted its report. Also in 1985 Government withdrew its
financial support from feeding students, and universities in turn privatized
the feeding business and laid off their catering staff. Student accommodation
and postgraduate fees were also increased at the same time. In 1987 a white
paper was published on "Views and Comments of the Federal Military Government
on the Report of the Study of Higher Education Curricula and Development in
Nigeria". This white paper established the framework for the growth of the
university system. In the same year the NUC set up a committee to "review the
parameters for allocation of grants to federally funded universities", and its
recommendations were the basis for a new set of funding parameters recently
approved by the Commission.
4.    In 1988 the NUC created thirteen subject based panels to develop minimum
academic standards for all major courses taught at the undergraduate level in
federal universities. On the basis of the work of these panels, in 1989 the
Government approved minimum academic standards as recommended by the
Commission in these thirteen areas. Accreditation committees are now being
established to study and report to the NUC on the extent to which these
standards are being met and to recommend what actions will need to be taken
with those programmes that do not meet these standards due to a lack of
qualified staff, physical facilities or essential equipment.
5.    Government reconstituted the Students Loans Board through Decree 12 of
1988, and the first loans under this decree have been made for the 1989/90
academic year.
6.    It can be seen from the above that the past five years have been a
period of rapid reform in the federal university system. In addition, many
key elements of a future reform strategy have been identified in the reports
of visitation panels to the first generation universities. These panels have
identified problems such as the large number of sub-degree programmes in some
of our universities; the excessive employment of certain categories of staff;
exceptionally poor maintenance of buildings and equipment; and gross
overcrowding in student hostels.
Future Reform Strategies
7.    Over the period 1990-1993 Government, with the full cooperation of NUC
and the Committee of Vice Chancellors (CVC), plans to extend and intensify the
pace of reform, so that even if the budget for federal universities does not
grow in real terms, despite a growth in student enrollments, quality teaching
and research can take place, especially in scientific and technological
disciplines. It is accepted that this will involve considerable restructuring
in the cost and financing of the universities. In order to achieve this it is
planned to encourage, and in some cases insist that federal universities
within the period through 1993:



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
a)    ensure that all programmes and courses meet the accreditation
criteria approved by the NUC within a stipulated period of time;
b)    close or amalgamate any remaining programmes, departments or
faculties that have never been approved by NUC;
c)    close or amalgamate all departments that have been in existence
for more than ten years, that still have fewer than 40 full time
student equivalent enrollments, at the undergraduate level or
above, or less than two thirds of the normally required academic
staff;
d)    do not run any postgraduate programme in any department that has
not graduated undergraduate students nor, apart from exceptional
circumstances run any postgraduate programme with enrollments of
less than 12 in first and second generation universities and 6 in
third generation universities;
e)    freeze recruitment in any areas where NUC approved staffing norms
are exceeded, and in cases of serious overstaffing specifically
amongst administrative and junior personnel, reduce numbers so
that these approved staffing levels are achieved by 1993; and
f)    raise at least 1lO  of total recurrent income from fees, profits
from businesses and consultancy services and endowments.
8.    In addition it has been decided that from the beginning of this
operation, postgraduate fees will be deregulated, and universities will be
allowed to charge a level they consider appropriate, as long as these do not
exceed full costs. With regard to remedial and sub-degree courses, we plan to
phase them out as soon as is practicable. This latter point is a part of
Government's policy to significantly reduce the numbers of, and enrollments in
sub-degree programmes in the universities. NUC will be charged with follow-up
and monitoring of the socio-economic impact of these changes.
9.    Government in its efforts to promote effective teaching and research in
scientific and technological fields will insist on a significant degree of
standardization of equipment between universities, in order to save on initial
capital costs and simplify future maintenance arrangements. In addition,
prior to any major purchases of equipment, all universities will be requested
to submit detailed proposals as to how they will repair the existing stock of
out of order equipment. Buildings will only be completed, or new ones
constructed, if space utilization factors are already at high level.
Strengthening Planning Monitoring and Management
10.   Though Government accepts that universities must be considered as
largely autonomous organizations with a wide degree of academic freedom, this
does not mean that Government can accept that they waste the scarce resources
it provides them from its budget nor does it mean that Government can accept



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
that the guidelines in staffing and budgeting prepared for the universities by
NUC are ignored. It is thus planned that NUC will intensify its monitoring of
the activities in the universities. However it is considered far more
important that the universities themselves improve their own planning,
budgeting, financial and physical monitoring, and control and management
systems. NUC will thus be mounting intensive training activities for key
staff at universities including the Vice Chancellors in these aspects, and in
additian will be providing universities with assistance in establishing
management information systems.
11.   I hope that these detaals will help clarify for you the main objectives
and direction of our university reform programme. We are convinced that once
these reforms are in place we will have a system of university education which
will be cost effective, efficient, and will produce the manpower needed for
national development without consuming an increasing share of the scarce
Governmental resources available for education. If you require any further
information please do not hesitate to let me know.
Yours sincerely,
by /s/             Professor Aliyu Babatunde Fafunwa
Honourable Minister of Education



- 41 -
Annex 2
NIGERIA: FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
a)    Time taken to prepare operation:             18 months
b)    Operation prepared by:                       FMOE/NUC/IDA
c)    First IDA Mission                            December 1987
d)    Appraisal Mission                            July 1989
e)    Negotiations                                 December 1989
f)    Planned date of effectiveness                September 1990
g)    Target date for second tranche
release                                     September 1991
h)    Target date for third tranche
release                                     September 1992
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action
Special intensity of supervision will be required with at least four
supervision visits a year involving discussions with federal agencies as
well as visits to participating universities.
Section III - Special Conditions of Effectiveness
None.
Section IV - Eligibility Criteria, Special Conditions
and Program Actions
a)    Universities that want to draw on program funds to cover part of the
foreign exchange costs of rehabilitation, improving and expanding their
activities will first have to meet agreed eligibility criteria for each
tranche of the program. These criteria are outlined in Attachment I.
Prior approval of IDA is required before any university is deemed
eligible to draw on first or second tranche credit funds.
b)    Funds will be released to NUC in three tranches: at effectiveness, and
approximately one and two years following effectiveness, subject to the
Association being satisfied during a detaied annual review (i) with the
progress being achieved in implementing the program (ii) with the use of
the proceeds of the credit, and (iii) that the specific tranche release
conditions have been met (as outlined in Attachment II).



- 42 -
ANNEX 2. ATTACHMENT 1
Page 1 of 2
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA TO BE MET BY UNIVERSITIES BEFORE
DRAWING ON CREDIT FUNDS
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__-------------------------------------
FIRST YEAR'S                          SECOND YEAR'S                          THIRD YEAR'S
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA                   ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA                 ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
1.1 Staff Retrenchment
- Complete freeze on recruitment      - Complete freeze on recruitment      - Complete freeze on recruitment
for all categories of staff           for all categories of staff           for all categories of staff
whero NUC staffing norms are          where NUC staffing norms              where NUC staffing norms are
exceeded.                             are exceeded.                         exceeded.
- One half of excese non-academic     - All excess non-academic staff       - Half of excess academic staff
staff according to NUC norms          according to NUC norms will have      by subject according to the NUC
will have been selected for           been removed from the payroll,        norms will have boen removod
retrenchment, and named.                                                    from the payroll.
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__-------------------------------------
2.2 Course Rationalization
Any department that has not        - No first or second phase
graduated at least one set of         university will run a post-
undergraduates will not run           graduate course with less than
postgraduate programs.                12 students, and no third phase
with less than 6 students.
Any department that has been in    - All non-approved programs,          - Any department that has been in
existence for more than 10 years      departments or faculties will         existence for more than 10 years
but has a FTE of less than 40         either cease to exist or be           but has less than two-thirds of
under-graduates will cease to         approved,                             the required academic staff will
exist.                                                                      cease to exist.
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__--------------------------------------
3.3 Self Financing of Hostels
- All leases on privately owned
hostels will be terminated.
4.4 Increasing Revenues from
Non-Governmental Sources
7X of total recurrent revenues    -  lOX of total recurrent revenues
will bo raised-from a combina-       will be raised from a combina-
tion of tuition fees, profits        tion of tuition fees, profits
from businesses and consultancy      from businesses and consultancy
services, and endowments.            services, and endowments.



- 43 -
ANNEX 2. ATTACHMENT 1
Page 2 of 2
-----------------------------------_------------------------------------__---__--------------------------------------
FIRST YEAR'S                                 SECOND YEAR'S                                THIRD YEAR'S
ELIGIBILITY  CRITERIA                         ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA                       ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
--------------------------------------------------------__-------------------__-------------------------------------
656  Sub-Degree Proams to be
S0lT-F nancina
-  All sub-degrees and remedial
programs at a university will
either be entirely self-
financing or will be removed
from the university.
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__-------------------------------..------
6.6  Ratlonal Equlpment Maintenance
and Procurement
-  Preparation of a detailed plan           -  Implementation of plan to                -  Implementation of plan to
showing how and when out-of-                repair out-of-order equipment               repair out-of-order equipment
order equipment will be re-                 and establish maintenance                   and establish maintenance
paired, and what general                    facilities,                                 facilities.
maintenance facilities will be
established.
-  Agree that in future 60S   of all            603 of all equipment procured            -  603 of all equipment procured
equipment procured from any                  from any source of funds will               from any source of funds will
source of funds will be accord-              be according to standard                    be according to standard
ing to standard specifications               specifications and from                     specifications and from
and from approved manufacturers.             approved manufacturers.                     approved manufacturers.
-----------------------------------------------------__-----------__---______________________________________________
7.7 Implementation of MIS
- Details will be provided of
unit costs and costs per
graduate by level, department
and faculty, calculated accord-
ing to systems and methodologies
proposed by NUC.



NICEtIA:  FEDERAL uNIVEySrTIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR ADlUSTMEJT OPERATION
ATTACHMENT II. SPECIAL CONDITIONS AND PROGRAM ACTIONi
(we Condition for further processing or tranch  releos;. rmaining actions alr parfornance taroets)
ACTIONS TO BE TAXE4 bEORE               ACTIONES TO BE TAN BEFOPF                ACTI[ON  TO BE TAKEN bEFORE
EASU?RES                            ACTIONS TAKEN TO DATE                                 EFFECTIVEESS                          2ND TRAhE RELEASE                       3SD TRANCE RELEASE
I   ELIGIB8L1Tt aRITERTA
( ) Final;zation of Elii-           -   inat list of a  gibility criteria                                            * Universities  ith 50t of total         * Universities with SON of total
bility criteria and                prepared inclu4ing qvantification                                                system eoll ments ha.e mt the            syt-  -enol nd yts havc mt the
Zepleeevtst.on by                  and Phasing,  nd lifferentisted                                                  first year's eligibility critars.        second year's  i;gbhility criteria
Un,veraitie                        bsts*sn first, a -ond and third                                                  and those with T35  of total system      and thone with 351 of total system
phaos  univsr;ti.s.                                                             e*nrollmnot have met the second           enrol Isents have st  the th ird
year's eligibility criteria.            year's eligibility criteria.
- Committee of Vice Chancel lore
formely co_ nt on criteria.
- Uniersi;t;es ith at least 50E
ejstes enrollments agree to iplemnt
first year's eligibility critr;a.
(ii) Introduction of Nte            -  Ne staffing parameters approved by -  Staff being retrenched fros at
Staffing Norm                     NC                                       least two first  eneration
- Full ;aplications of nw otaffing
parameters for each university                                                - NUC has remved portion of block
calculated,                                                                      grant devoted to categories of staff
in .cass of NUC norme.
- Propoals for financing redundancy
payments d"evloped by NUC.
- NUC mkas interest free loans to                                                                                                                                               .
tao first generation universities
to finance their staff retrenchment.
- Notonal freeze announced for any
universities that cant to participate
in the progrs in each category of
staff that is in xcesas of tAC norm.
(i;i)Incrcase post-oraduate         -  Substantial fees already charged                                               a  Lodging fees of at least N1O8  per   e  First annual review of ne  lodging
lodging and other fees,           for hostel accoaodation and post-                                                bed space per session introduced         charges cospleted.
graduate studi;.                                                                 from the beginning of the 1990/91
academic year.                       a  Fees for sub-degree and rssedial
-  Full detailed analysas of boarding                                                                                        prograe  increcssd to cover a
costs and indications of coats for  -  Start of studies on aocio-econosic        Studie on soclo-economic imPact          greater proportion of total costs
post-graduate programs at all           impact of new fee and hooste             of new fee and hostel financing          of these program  than in 1935/89.
universitiea compl-ted.                 financing policies,                      policies co-plete.                     - 
- Sub-Cc_;tto- of COIDD;tt @ O  V;c                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~- E- eri_ants in different form  of   S 
-Sub-Committee of Coesittee of Vice                                                                                        hostol management underway. inclu-            OQ  Z
Chancellore set up to study student                                                                                       ding separate accounting units and            ID
hostet Imnagesnt and financing.                                                                                           student aelf-managesent.
-  Announcement by the Federal                                                                                                                                             oW
Government that universities at                                                                                                                                         "h
their discretion mey increase                                                                                                                                               >
post-graduate fes  up to a level o1
sufficient for full cost recovery.
n-
I-
14



NICERIA FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
ATTACHMENT :1. SPECIAL CONDITIONS AND PROCRAM ACTIONS
(.  C-diton for further proceasing or treach. relas; reaining action;  ar.   perforrsance t-rgets)
ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BEFORE               ACTIONS TO eE TAKEN BEFORE                ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BEFORE
MEASURES                             ACTIONS TAKEN TO DATE                                  EFFECTIVENESS                         2ND TRANO-E RELEASE                       3RD TRANO4E RELEASE
(iv) Retionalization of course-    - Rationalization committee's work                                                  -  Preliminary accreditation reports   *  Accreditation ecerciaw  completed
at both the grad.ate and            completed.                                                                         completed on all mjor program. in         in a11 Federal unitheriti,  h.
undergraduate  leal..                                                                                                  Federal Universities,                    accreditation status of *ll program
-  Covern.mnt white paper on                                                                                                   publicised. and universities
rationalization publiehed.                                                                                                  informad of the time bound remedial
action they will hare to take on
-  Principles for approving poet-                                                                                                I a   programs that h.. met the
graduate programs accepted.                                                                                                 acc,odittio*n critoria.
-  Minimum academic standard.
committees' work completed on 13
major aubject areas and approved
by NUC.
- Accreditation panels set up by NC.
-  Overall accreditet,on   . .rc'is
launched.
Iv)  Incrossing revenues from        - Dicusions between Covernment and  -  Dociion by NUC that universitie   -  72 of total recurrent revenues                  -  10t of total recurrent ravenu-s
non-Oovernment aources.             Univ-rities completed on                 can consider one third of their           raised from feea. profits from           rrined from fees, profit. from
principles for rais-ng and using         earnings em diecretionwry fund.           conaultancy services and businesses    consultancy services and buaineses
"elf generated revenues                  to be used for any purpose                and endowments by pert,cipating          and endowment. by participating
univereities.                            universit,ss.
- NUC capital allocations mde to
finance productive enterpris es
particularly farme.
II.  INSTITUTIONAL STRENSGTIE1INO
ti)  Strengthening of hUC'-         -  Powers of NUC increosd under           -  International advisory panel          -  Staff training contin.-d.                 NXC guidelin-s  with respect to
capability of monitor, and        Decree lb of I1pS,                        appointed, end first meting                                                        ma.imum proportion of block
control universities program.                                               hold,                                                                              grant. that may be  pet on
staffing. and us.  of funds.   -  Functional review of all eaioting                                                                                            personal  molume,nt  achieved
professional and technical staff    -  Procurement agent. for booka,                                                        in all universities.
completed,                               journals end ectuipment identified.
-  Eviteing staff *hor-t-.og  identified.
- In country training of university
staff and NlC peraonnel under-ay.
- Program Implementation Committees
and office. established in
participating universities.                                                                                                                                                 N
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
uQ 
'-3W
X-
I-I
I-



NIGERIA: FEDERAL LINrVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR ADJSTMENT OPERATION
ATTACHMENT Ir. SPECIAL CONDITIONS AND PROGRAM ACTIONS
(em Condition for further processing or trench. releas; remming actions ar. perforoonce targets)
ACTiONS TO bE TAKEN  rORE               ACTIONS TO BE TAKB4 BEF0                 ACTIONS TO bE TAKl BFORE
MEASURES                            ACTIONS TAKEN TO DATE                                 EFFECTrVBESS                          2N  TRANDIE RELEASE                      MM TRANOHE REEASE
Additional staff for managing
operation identified.                - Additional NUC staff for three k-y
divisions in poet.
Lkm;.ersity reserves accumulated in
oil boos years substantially
rduced.
One high level program co-ordinator
appointed to assist hX Eracutiva
Secretary in program implentation.
(ii) Strongthening of Nigerian      - Decre* re-eatabliahing the SLd         - RecruitAent of additional key staff    -  Feasibility and pre-in.osetent           -  Feasi ility and pro-inveatment
Studente Loan BbOrJ               gaztted.                                 und.-aby  end r-trenchmnt of                atudy of student loan financing         study of student loan financing
*xeas junior staff started,                 institution started,                     institution coepleted.
- Naw HQ established in Abuja. and    - Staff in poet and staff training
now Exacutive Secretary appointed,    started.
-  First loans given according to       -  Identification of size end number
established criteria,                   of loans to be given complete.
(iii)E&tablirh_ent of Management   - Computariszd information system         - Training program for university       - British Council aponsored pilot        - All universitieo  able to carry out
Information System for NUC        uaed for part of NUC's internal         staff developed,                         centres operational.                     simple managwnent functions
and Universitie                   management.                                                                                                               systemticall y.
- Conrultanta in post and preparing
-  British Council (UK) consultants        detailed program and approaches.
preparing detailed propos l for
university ba-d system.              - Standardized computing equipment
system announced.                                                                                                               Cy
- Further training of staff
completed.
(iv) Establlihent of Equipaent    - Magnitude of tho probles                 - Maintenance plans for all             -  Facilitios constructed and            -  Equipment maintenance syste.
Maintenance Systeme.              identified.                              univ-rsitios developed.                   quip_nt procured,                       operational in all eligible
universities.
-  Propoeala for establishing           - Resoures allocated by universities - Staff trined in all eligible
maintenance systems at regional         to start establiahing maintenance        universities.
university centres mode,                facilitiea.
- Spare parts ordered for all
-  British Council and EE  interested  - Staff recruitsent for regional             eligible universitisa.
in assisting the establishmant of       maintenance centres started.
maintenance centres.                                                                                                                                                 O   Z
- Technical staff in poet at loast
in regional maintenance eontres.                                                                                            4..
Nh
0-



NICERIA:  FEDEAL UNIVEITIES OEVELOPPTE  SECTO  ADJSTbOT tOPAT1ION
ATTAOOET  11 SPECIAL CWCITIWGS AND PROORAR ACTIONS
(- Condition for further proc-esing or trenche release; remining ectione are perfor-ance target.)
ACTIONS TO BE TAKEt BE3RE                ACTIONS TO BE TAII BEFORE                 ACTIONS TO BE TAKECN BEORE
MlEASUtES                            ACTIONS TAKEON TO DAl2                                 EFFECTIVENESS                          2ND TRACE RELEASE                        3RD TRACE RELEASE
- Inventory of eli equipment in
universities undersy.
- Identification of facility
requiremente at universities for
*etablishing maintenance eyetems
III. BUDCT
CO)  Improvement in budgeting        -  Detailed baeeline date                                                          -  Cooputorized budget eubnisainn        -  Actual  ni;vereity evpend.tures
procce".                           availabie from both Bank end                                                       system in plce.                          in 1990/91 copesred *ith hUC'-
Government rePorts.                                                                                                         aII iccetione.
- Actual univereity *ependitures
in 1989/90 comapred *ith
MX's *i locetione.
(;i) Education'e  hare of Federal  -  Parameter  prepared involving                                                     -  1991 budget eneyzed.                  -  1992 budget analyeed.
Budget maintained.                 increase in percentage allocatione
increeaing aliocetione in          to ecademic progres end research.                                                 F Fderal Ministry of Educatione        e  Fed-rel Niniatry of Educationn'a
universitiee to ecedemic                                                                                               hare of Federal B'udget in 1989         share of Federal budget in 1989
program  end reaerch.           -  Federal Minietry of Education's                                                    emintained in 1991.                      eeinteined  in 1992.
ehero of Federal Budget in 1989
meintained in 1990.
(I    iSPAcE UTILIZATION
UL- of space utilization        -  Firet draft inventory of ueabl       -  Ne- moro intensive &pace               - Univereitiee have re,i ed their
etudi;e to justify any             space in all univereities                utiliiation nor" developed  -d           -eeter plens using the nep epec
co.pletion of uncompleted          completed.                               approved NC.                              and we-Pa   utilization norma.
buiidinge. or ne- capital
projects.                                                                -  Ne. more economical space norme        -  Any ne-  building project only        -  Any ne  building Project only                    4-
d-veloped end approved by NlC.           approved in 1990/91 if justifi-d          approved in 1991/92 if juetified
according to overall univereity           eccording to ovarall university
space utilization factors end            space  tilization fectore end
decigned eccording to n_w                designed eccording to ne
apace nor".                              epece nor".
OQz 
mt
S.
1o)
0 -
z
13-
IiC
Hit



NICERIA   FEDERAL UPNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
ATTACHMENT II   SPECIAL CONDITIONS AND PROCRAM ACTIONS
(ax Cond,tion       ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BEFORE                ACTIONS 'O BE TAKEN BEFORE                 ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BEFORE
MEASURES                                                                                      EFFECTIVENESS                          2FD TRANCHE RELEASE                       3RD TRAN04E RELEASE
ACTIONS TAKEN TO DATE
V.   STW)DENT vL4BERS                 ---------------------
Crowth in undergraduat          -  Pla.ieu  rates of growth for first,                                               -  No new universities established.    -  No no univers ties established.
student nu.abers to be con-        second and third generation
troleod to maintain sose           university  e-rollsnts fimed at                                                   -  Growth rates of undergraduate          -  Crowth rates of undergraduate
balance  aetxeen supply and        2.50S, 105, and 151 pa..                                                             enrol seents do not exceed                enrol - lente do not acaod
desaDnd.                                                                                                                targets                                   targets.
-  40:60 Arts:Science ratio in
Sub-doegro enroll ents to be        intakes approved.                                                                -  At least 60S of new undergraduate   -  At least 605 of new undergraduate
significantly roduced,                                                                                                  intakes in ecientific subjete.             intakes in scientifc subjcts.
- Sub-degree schools of beami
studies phased out.                                                              -  Actual enrol lants in reedial and  -  Actual enrol ients in resedial and
sub-degree progres lower than in          aub-degreo prograes  lower than in
-  No-viable faculties and                                                             1968/89.                                   1990/91.
departsents ex osed.
VI.   USE OF CRtrIT PROCEES
Release of credit funds can                                               -  Quick disbursing procurearnt
only be justified  f                                                          procedureo approved end in place.
processes for rapid
disbursements are in place.                                               -  At least 101 of first tranche           -  At least 60% of first tranche          -  All of first tranche and at least
proceeds  eady to be spent using          cosmitted.                                 MS1 of scnd tranche committed.
quick procurement procedures.
'C-
002
N)
0
2n1-
H



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA: FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
NUC REVISED STAFFING AND COSTING PARAMETERS
In December, 1986, the NUC set up a panel, made up of staff from
universities, to propose a revision of the criteria for allocation of funds
to the federal universities. The panel has since submitted its report
which was immediately forwarded to the universities for comments. These
comments were discussed by the University Development Committee, and
further amendments made, and finally a new set of parameters of NUC was
approved by the full board of the NUC. These have now been submitted to
the Federal Government for its formal endorsement.
The following are the main features of the new costing and staffing
parameters, as approved by the board of the NUC:
i)   The conventional universities should strive towards attaining the
stipulated ratios of stude1it enrollments (602 in the science-
based disciplines, and 402 in arts-based disciplines).
ii)   Student-teacher ratios are being proposed as follows:
Existing Proposed
Disciplinary Area                     Ratio       Ratio
Arts-based disciplines                 15:1       20:1
Science-based disciplines              10:1       10:1
(Agricultural and Engineering)          -         (9:1)
Human Medicine                          7:1        6:1
Veterinary Medicine                    10:1        6:1
Education                              25:1       24:1
iii)    The following should be the grade structure for academic staff
establishments:
Existing Proposed
Grade                           Structure Structure
Professorial Grade                      20%        202
Senior Lectureship Grade                25?        35%
Lecturer I and Below                    552        452



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
iv) Other cadres of staff are recommended as follows:
a)   For academic Departments:
-    One senior administrative staff to 12 teachers.
-    One senior technical staff to 4 teachers in science-based
disciplines and one senior technical staff to 20 teachers in
the arts-based disciplines.
-    One junior technical staff to two teachers in science-based
disciplines, and one junior technical staff to 20 teachers
in the arts-based disciplines.
-    Two junior non-technical staff to 3 teachers.
b)   For Administrative Support Units:
-    One senior administrative staff to 10 teachers.
-    One senior technical staff to 10 teachers.
-    One junior technical staff to six teachers.
-    One junior non-technical staff to one teacher.
Previously, for all the above categories of non-academic staff
NUC used to allow:
-    One senior administrative staff to 5 academic staff;
-    One senior technical staff to 5 academic staff;
-    30 junior staff to 100 students.
v)   Amounts for the puirchase of goods and services in the direct
teaching units are allowed, as proportions of the total salaries
and allowances of teachers and support staff involved in direct
teaching, as follows:
Existing Policy      Proposed Policy
Arts-based
disciplines        15-20%               20%
Science-based
disciplines        30-352               35?



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
These rates should also be considered along with an overall ratio of
2.0:1.5:2.0:1.0 in the total annual per student recurrent costs for science
postgraduates:arts postgraduates:science postgraduates:arts undergraduates.
vi) Distribution of grants among the major spending units is
suggested as follows:
Direct teaching units                           402
Teaching support units                          22
Research                                         82
Public service units                             32
Library                                          52
Staff development                               lZ
General academic expenditures                    12
SUB-TOTAL:  ALL ACADEMIC EXPENDITURES                60Z
Salaries and allowances                      19.22
Goods and services                            3.22
Plant and grounds                             9.02
Student services                              3.02
General administrative
expenditure                                 5.62
SUB-TOTAL:  ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENDITURE               402
Universities will not be expected to keep to this detailed breakdown.
However, within the total recurrent block grant not less than 602 of the
total allocations should be devoted to academic expenditures and not more
than 402 on administrative expenditures.
vii)   In overall terms not more than 602 of the block grant allocation
should be spent on salaries, and not less than 402 on goods and
services.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA: FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
PROJECTED FEDERAL UNIVERSITY STAFFING BASED ON 1989 DRAFT
PARAMETERS AND 1991/92 PROJECTED ENROLLMENTS
BY FACULTY
1.   Academic Teaching Staff
Arts Faculties            3,006
Science Faculties         9,081
Total               12,087
2.   Academic Department Staffing
Senior Administration           1:12 Teachers             1,007
Senior Technical               1:4  Teachers Science    2,270
1:20 Teachers Arts          150
Junior Technical                1:2  Teachers Science    4,540
1:20 Teachers Arts          150
Junior Non-Technical            2:3  Teachers             8,058
3.   Administrative Support Unit Staffing
Senior Administration Staff   1:10   Teachers        1,209
Senior Technical               1:10   Teachers       1,209
Junior Technical                1:6    Teachers      2,014
Junior Non-Technical            1:1    Teachers    12,087
4.   Totals
Senior Administration          2,216
Senior Technical                3,629
Junior STaff                  26,849
5.   Staff Numbers in 1991/92 Compared with Actuals in 1988/89
Science Teaching Faculty       3,293 add to 5,788 (increase) 58.92
Arts Teaching Faculty             798 out of 3,804 (decrease) 20.12
Senior Administration Staff   3,839 out of 6,075 (decrease) 63.22
Senior Technical Staff             31 out of 3,660 (decrease)  0.82
Junior Staff                  5,823 out of 32,672 (decrease) 17.8Z)
Total (net)              7,198 out of '1,999 (decrease) 13.82
6.   Staff Reductions Compared with Student Increases
Thus even though total enrollments including sub-degree programs
are planned to increase by 10.52 between 1988/89 and 1991/92, total
staffing is likely to decrease by 13.82 over the same period.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
8.   Savings from New Staffing Parameters
With the introduction of the new elongated salary scale in 1988,
academic staff were on average receiving N16,000 in salary and emoluments;
senior technical and administrative staff N11,600; and junior staff N3,600
p.a. In addition most are receiving very significant non-monetary
benefits, such as subsidized housing, water and electricity, health care
etc. Ignoring these non-monetary benefits the following table summarises
the 1988/89, and 1991/92 salary bill, in both cases using the 1988 salary
scales.
1988/89          Z         1991/92       Z       Z Increase/
Naira       of Total      Naira of   Total       Decrease
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------_
Academic Staff    153,472,000       40.0     193,392,000   54.0         + 26.0
Senior Admin.
& Tech Staff    112,926,000       29.4      68,034,000   19.0         - 39.8
Junior Staff      117,619,000       30.6      96,656,200   27.0         - 17.8
Total          384,009,000      100.0     358,082,200  100.0         -  6.8%
Thus even despite a substantial increase in student enrollments the budget for
personal emoluments will actually fall (by N25.9 million) with the implementation of
the new staffing parameters. Actual savings will be of the order of N72 million
(compared with what the salary bill would have been without introducing the new
parameters). Even more significant is the fact that the proportion of total salaries
going to academic staff will increase from 40X in 1988/89 to 54.0 in 1991/92.



- 54 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 10
NIGERIA: FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
THE ROLE OF NUC IN PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
Structure and Staffing of NUC for Program Implementation
1.        Before the mid 1980s the NUC does not appear to have adopted a
very proactive role towards the universities and even in the Physical
Planning Division, there was little questioning or critical analysis of
university plans. The refinement of the structure which has occurred under
the present Executive Secretary reflects the Federal Military Government's
view of the more vigorous role to be adopted by the NUC, for txample
through the minimum standards exercise (now completed) and the
accreditation exercise about to be launched. The structure and senior
staff strength of the NUC are set out in Attachment I. The more recent
developments have been the creation of the Research and Postgraduate
Division, the substantial growth of the Academic Planning Division, and the
creation of a Records and Statistics Division.
2.        It is often customary in Nigerian public service for special
projects to be handled by a Project Implementation Unit. In this case
however the activities of the NUC that will be related to the program are
essentially an extension and development of its present role. It would not
therefore be appropriate to set up a special unit staffed with officers of
the NUC removed from the departments in which they normally work; instead,
individuals should be earmarked to work on the program (often on a full
time basis) within their present departments. Thus key departments will
have responsibilities for implementation, although some staff will be more
involved than others.
3.        The demands that implementation of the program will make on the
NUC require that it be substantially strengthened in the following ways:
-    The Executive Secretary will have a program coordinator drawn from a
very senior academics to assist him and be responsible for overall
program implementation. He must be able to talk to serving VCs with
sufficient status and authority for his message to be taken
seriously. He might perhaps be drawn from the ranks of present or
former members of the Commission. He must work on program activities
on a full-time basis. He will need a small secretarial unit drawn
from serving NUC staff.
-    The Academic Planning Department will bear the brunt of the
monitoring of the eligibility criteria and overall program
implementation (see Attachment II) on top of its increasing regular
duties. It is not realistic to suppose that new recruits can be
drafted in and expected immediately to make a major contribution to
the program. However the present professional staffing of 19 is
being increased by the recruitment of five additional staff and these



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 10
will be deployed in support of existing functions, releasing
sufficient numbers of experienced staff to work on meeting the
demands of program implementation activities.
The Finance Department will also be involved, to a lesser extent, in
the monitoring operation, and will be responsible for financial
management and accounting of the program. It will also be the
division in NUC where procurement officers will work, and will be
responsible for monitoring and approving the activities of the
procurement agents. There is thus a clear need to strengthen this
department, particularly as there are only at present eight
professional staff, of whom only three are qualified accountants. In
addition this department does not currently make regular visits to
the universities, and this will need to change as it will have a key
role to play in the monitoring of certain eligibility criteria. It
is proposed that two qualified accountants be employed as short term
consultants for the duration of this program, and be involved largely
on regular NUC accounting activities, whilst the two existing
accountants are freed to work on program monitoring activities. In
addition four graduates with accountancy degrees, and three
accounting assistants are being actively recruited, half of whom will
be associated with this operation. Finally, two procurement officers
experienced with World Bank procurement procedures will also be
recruited.
The new Statistics and Records Department is in the process of being
developed and built up. Its functions will include the establishment
and maintenance of a national data bank of university management
information, provision of statistical support for NUC in planning the
university system, and in monitoring implementation of policies.
There are currently six professional grade staff in the division.
The demands on the department are likely to increase rapidly. It
will be necessary, since this department will act as an important
tool in the development of an MIS for NUC and the universities, for
its staffing to be doubled within the next year. A change in the
organizational structure is recommended with the department being
divided into three teams, each comprising a systems analyst (as team
leader) and three analyst/programmers, one for the development of
financial software, another for staff/student records software, and
one for information and training.
Two specialist Technical Panels will be required to scrutinise and
advise on the purchase of equipment and of library materials
respectively. The Equipment Panel, whose membership will be drawn
partly from the former committee members involved in developing the
minimum academic standards reports, should determine standardization
criteria and conduct a technical review of equipment lists submitted
by the universities. Likewise the Library Panel should be
responsible for the scrutiny procedures envisaged under the
procurement of library materials. In both cases the sources of
expertise available may not be confined to the universities.



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 10
4.        It does not appear that the other three departments of the NUC
(Personnel, Research and Development, Physical Planning) will need any
strengthening specifically in respect of this program. With regard to the
Physical Planning Department, its monitoring role may be minimal because
few if any construction projects are likely to be funded under the program.
This department already seems well placed to monitor and advise on any
building activities, including library provision, as its staff visit all
universities on a quarterly basis. Since 1978 well-defined, but somewhat
excessive guidelines have been provided by NUC, giving standard norms for
the design, costing and construction of university buildings, while a space
inventory is beginning to be maintained and updated annually by each
university in consultation with the department.
5.        Additional senior professional staff are expensive to employ,
not so much because of the salary, which for a director is only about
N18,000 p.a., but because suitable accommodation has to be rented costing
around N70,000 p.a., and a car and related expenses provided. Some of the
new and existing staff will require training both in Nigeria and overseas.
The increased monitoring activities will also dramatically increase the
need for travel and night allowances within Nigeria. A further difficulty
is that there is no room for expansion of office space in the current
premises. This latter problem will only be able to be solved when NUC is
able to occupy the new office block it is constructing in Abuja.
6.        The NUC operates two overseas offices, one in London and one in
Washington. The London office is the more important of the two. This
office exists to represent the interests of NUC and the universities in
Europe and the middle East (including the Indian sub-continent). Its main
functions relate to recruitment of university staff from this area,
arrangement of visas and travel for recruited staff, welfare of Nigerian
academic staff studying overseas, and purchasing of books and equipment on
behalf of universities. When the universities had ample hard currency
there was a great deal of activity in purchasing and recruitment; in recent
years however this has become limited and the staff has been reduced to the
present complement of 7 professional and 6 support staff.
7.        Universities are likely to draw on part of the credit to top up
the salaries of expatriate staff recruited temporarily to train (and
replace during training) Nigerian staff in scarce disciplines. Thus some
increase in the workload of the Recruitment Unit can be expected, though
the present staff should be able to cope.
8.        The London office is not sufficiently staffed to undertake the
procurement for this operation since the value of purchasing on behalf of
the universities over the past year was only about US$1 million, as
compared with around $30 million of procurement expected annually under the
credit. However, the present arrangements involve piecemeal procurement
decisions with individual universities and no procurement agents are
involved, thus the exercise is labour-intensive. It does therefore have
some capacity to assist the NUC headquarters with procurement activities.



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 10
Preparatory Activities
9.        It is of crucial importance that all participating Federal
Universities have trained personnel and the institutions needed not only to
make meaningful eligibility claims, but also to prepare consolidated lists
of books, journals, equipment, and spare parts that will be procured with
credit fu.ds. Though it is ultimately the responsibility of NUC to monitor
whether a university has met the eligibility criteria or not, and to vet
procurement requests, its task will be simplified if proposals received
from the universities are sound. Thus, before universities can draw on
program funds they will establish Program Implementation Committees, headed
by a senior staff member, and serviced by a small, well equipped and
staffed secretariat. These committees will not substitute for other
initiatives taking place. For example there will have to be an improvement
in data collection atrangements; and for this the role of the newly
established cadre of Academic Planning Officers (who generally have
responsibility for all statistical returns to the NUC) will be very
important.
10.       To assist the university community to prepare for the
implementation of the program, NUC is planning to run, mainly within
Nigeria but with appropriate external contributions, seminars and
programmes in the following areas:
o    For Vice-Chancellors: Management principles (leadership;
financial management: including relationship of budgetary
control to institutional goals; implementation of eligibility
criteria; management of staff; use of information in support of
management decision-making; external relations and public
accountability)
o    For key university officlals involved in the university Program
Implementation Committees: Introduction to the eligibility
criteria (what they are intended to achieve; how they are to be
measured or authenticated; arrangements for monitoring by the
universities and by NUC). This will be supported by the
publication by NUC of a handbook on the criteria. In addition
these officials will be briefed on the details required by NUC
to procure goods for the university once the eligibility
criteria are met
o    For academic planners:  Principles of good record keeping
(definition of data elements; effective arrangement for data
capture; use of new technologies for data analysis; use of data
in decision making by management; derivation and use of
performance indicators especially those relating to the
eligibility criteria)
o    For bursars:  Financial management and accounting (briefing and
consultation on progress towards a uniform accounting system;
introduction to the use of new procedures; reporting on
eligibility criteria data; relationship of finance to other



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 10
elements such as staff and students; derivation of unit costs;
use of new technologies for financial systems)
o    For physical planners:  Space utilization analysis as a tool for
priuritisation (the use of building norms and space inventories;
calculation of space utilization factors; and relationship to
academic planning)
11.       In addition to these training and preparatory activities for key
university staff, NUC will have to brief its own staff, arranging for
training of key personnel, and preparing job descriptions and work plans
for those who will be most intimately involved in program implementation.
NUC Monitoring of Eligibility Criteria and Program Implementation
12.       Details of the monitoring of the eligibility criteria are
provided in Attachment II. Obviously different criteria will be monitored
in different years, but the most difficult exercise will be in the first
year. The process will start not later than February 1990 when NUC will
send staff to all the universities to explain the full details of the
eligibility criteria, and ask them to make a submission of the extent to
which they meet the criteria by the end of March 1990. This should be
accompanied by a detailed plan for the use of their drawing limits if they
are found to be eligible. These responses will be analyzed within NUC in
early April prior to field monitoring visits in April/May 1990.
13.       For monitoring purposes the country will be divided into four
zones, each zone with five universities. Each monitoring team will be
headed by one of the high level members of the Executive Secretary's
steering group, or one of the NUC directors, and will consist of two
academic planners, and one finance professional. Each team will spend
three to four days at each university visited, and prior to leaving a
university will inform the Vice Chancellor of the criteria that are not
being met, and the steps that should be taken. The teams will report to
the Executive Secretary of NUC on their return, and he will recommend to
IDA which universities should be considered eligible. Within two weeks IDA
will. respond, either accepting NUC's recommendation, or asking for
additional information. .hus by the end of June universities should know
whether they are eligible or not. In the first year all universities will
be monitored. In the second and third years only those that have met the
previous year's criteria, or have specifically requested monitoring will be
visited. In addition to the major monitoring that will take place in
April/May each year there will be follow-up visits on request, for those
who did not meet all the eligibility criteria.
14.       The plans for the use of program funds submitted by the
universities that meet the eligibility criteria will be vetted by the
Academic Planning Department. They will check that sufficient emphasis is
being placed on maintenance of existing equipment; that at least 802 of new
equipment items to be purchased with credit funds are standardized; that
there has been some inter-university cooperation in the choice of journals;
that sufficient emphasis is placed on undergraduate teaching especially in



- 59 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 10
scientific disciplines, and that the total planned expenditures of the
university are within its drawing limits.
15.       In the second and third years, in addition to monitoring the
achievement of the eligibility criteria, the monitoring teams will also be
asked to look at the use that is being made of the goods and services
procured with program funds. For example, are the books and journals
unpacked and on the library shelves; have the spare parts been used in
repairing equipment; is the new equipment operational; and are the
expatriate staff recruited in those areas of greatest shortages.
Monitoring the Socio-Economic Impact of the Program
16.       It is important that the impact of the program on the
participation of vulnerable groups in university education, and the impact
on the community surrounding the university of massive staff retrenchments
are continuously monitored so that remedial action can be taken in time.
In addition positive experiences of particular universities relevant to the
success of the program need to be studied. Thus special fund will be held
by NUC to be used to contract university research organizations to carry
out studies which will help lead to the successful implementation of the
program. Some of the research to be carried out will merely involve an
analyses of what is happening at various universities, and a synthesis of
these experiences; for example on methods of retiring old book stocks from
libraries, or on the running of university consultancy services. Other
research will be designed to lead to changes in curricula or programs
common to several universities and/or faculties; for example courses to
provide graduates with the skills they will need to set themselves up in
self employment, and make maximum use of the facilities afforded by the
National Directorate of Employment. The third and most crucial area of
research will be on the social impact of the program - the impact of staff
redundancies on the community surrounding the university, the impact of
universities closing down remedial programs, and the impact of increasing
user charges or the enrollment of vulnerable groups. Information from
these studies will be passed on to the universities, the Students Loans
Board, the National Directorate of Employment and other agencies that can
make immediate use of the data. The idea is not to produce perfect reports
with a beautiful methodology, but to provide data that can be immediately
acted upon. A total of US$250,000 will be available, controlled by the
Executive Secretary of NUC, and used to finance 5-10 studies.
Equipment Procurement
17.       It is agreed that all equipment will be procured through agents.
Not later than the end of October 1989, NUC will present to the Bank for
its approval a short list of agents from whom it intends to invite
proposals. While operationally it will be simpler to use only one
procurement agent, it might prove necessary to employ separate agents for
new equipment, and spare parts. All new equipment will be procured with
two years supply of spare parts. Altogether four different categories of
equipment will be procured, (with only limited items in the fourth
category).



- 60 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 10
-    Diagnostic and testing equipment for the equipment maintenance
centers
-    Spare parts for rehabilitation of currently non-functioning
equipment which is serviceable.
-    Standard basic new equipment and accessories (required to meet
the needs of increased student enrollments, to reflect new
minimum academic standards and to replace equipment
irretrievably broken down)
-    Specialized equipment costing more than US$40,000 per item
18.       Once the agents have been selected and approved the following
procedures will be followed:-
o    NUC will set up the Equipment Panel to establish standardization
criteria, and later to review orders from universities. One of
the procurement officers to be recruited by NUC will act as
secretary to this panel.
o    NUC will invite participating universities to draw up their
lists in order of priority, in the four categories mentioned
above and submit to the NUC by a fixed date; NUC will inform
universities of standardized criteria at the time of inviting
these submissions.
o    The Equipment Panel will conduct a technical review of lists
submitted, and delete any 'standard' items that fail to meet
specifications already defined. The panel will propose cost-
effective procurement and distribution of 'non-standard' items
requested to appropriate centers (universities are unlikely to
receive all the items in the fourth category they request).
Late submissions or additions from universities will not be
entertained after the initial technical review has taken place.
O    For standard items NUC will prepare detailed specifications,
estimate an approximate order of magnitude of the quantities
required, and ask the procurement agents to go out to tender
using approved ICB arrangements. For standard items, agents
will tender for specific quantities with options for increased
orders over a period of two years. For subsequent orders the
options will be exercised, and no further bidding required.
O    For non-standard items the NUC procurement officers will send
consolidated lists of orders (with copies to the universities)
to the respective procurement agents who will go out to tender
under Bank approved ICB arrangements.
o    Procurement agents will place orders, follow up, expedite,
inspect, and on giving notice of despatch, invoice NUC for
payment of whatever initial proportion has been agreed in the
tender.



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 10
o    Procurement agents will ensure that the Nigerian representatives
of the manufacturers are informed when equipment is despatched,
and will arrange for installation/commissioning on site where
appropriate.
o    Individual universities will be informed by NUC of despatch of
items and of the expected arrival date at port of entry.
O    Universities will inform NUC when equipment is installed and
satisfactorily commissioned so that final payments can be made.
O    Equipment should be shipped in separate containers for each
university consignee.
O    Preferably procurement agents should be sought who are prepared
to accept responsibility for clearing through the docks, and for
delivery to the universities. Present indications are however
that this will be unattractive to some contenders because of
potential problems at the docks over which they may have little
control. It may thus be necessary also to appoint clearing and
forwarding agents. The procurement agents should however be
responsible for ensuring that the manufacturers are properly
represented for installation and commissioning, and that the
terms of sale will protect the interests of the universities.
19.       It should be noted that equipment procured under this program
will not be more sophisticated than is required to perform the tasks
expected: over-sophistication can lead to difficulties in operation and
maintenance. In each case there should be a clear understanding of the
functions of the instrument and the manufacturer's specifications, together
with an awareness of potential maintenance problems. It should also be
noted that in any tendering process appropriate weight must be given to the
reliability of installation and commissioning arrangements, and ready
availability of in-country servicing and spares.
Procurement of Books and Journals
20.       As with equipment procurement NUC should prepare a short list of
potential specialist agents, and after approval of this list by the Bank,
invite proposals from these book and journal agents for the terms that
would apply to purchases of books up to a value of US$25 million and
periodicals up to the value of $12 million over the program period. One
agent will be needed for books and one for journals. Such proposals will
be expected to show significant discounts over the standard cover price,
reflecting the volume of business and secure payment terms. NUC should
then evaluate the most favourable contractual arrangements offered, taking
into account both the discount and the proven reliability of the firms.
Unlike the equipment procurement agents, once the book and journal agents
have been selected all book and journal orders will be able to be supplied
by the agents without any further bidding. The agreed discount will merely
be applied to the publishers' list prices.



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 10
21.       Librarians in the participating universities will draw up lists
of books and journals on the advice of their users, ranked by order of
priority, and taking account of proposals for inter-university exchanges.
They will send these to the NUC as a part of their planned use of drawing
limits. Journals whose annual subscription exceeds $1000 will be subject
to a technical review to ensure a cost-effective distribution of expensive
items within the country. The review will also seek to ensure that as far
as possible, there is at least one copy in Nigeria of all non-core journals
needed. Orders from those universities whose libraries are already full
and unable to accommodate new stocks will only be processed by NUC where
the university in question has previously submitted to the NUC a
satisfactory plan for dealing with the proposed new accessions.
22.       NUC will send by courier approved orders, sorted by university,
to the book and journal agents. The agents will despatch the materials and
send advice of shipping to the NUC for payment of whatever proportion has
been agreed. On receipt of the materials university librarians will send
confirmation to the NUC for payment of outstanding balances, and will
indicate any discrepanciet: to the agents and the NUC for rectification.
International Advisory Panel
23.       A university system, though taking most of its inspiration from
the society in which it has taken root, also must have links with the
wider universe. In order to ensure that the raforms taking place in
Nigeria through this operation draw some inspiration from what is
happenning elsewhere in the world a high level international advisory panel
of six renowned scholars will be appointed. This panel will be charged
with the responsibility for improving the quality of scientific teaching
and research in the participating universities. Members would thus have to
advise the library and equipment panels mentioned above, assist in the
selection of appropriate universities for doctoral studies for Nigerian
faculty; and advise universities in how to meet the eligibility and
accreditation criteria. The panel would meet twice a year in Nigeria, each
time involving up to two weeks of visits to universities, and two or three
days of formal discussions. In between visits, members of the panel would
be available to help place Nigerian faculty in appropriate post-graduate
training programs, and respond to other questions. All the members of the
panel would have had experience of reform and accreditation exercises in
other developing countries; half would be experts in scientific
disciplines; and the remaining three in library development, management,
and accreditation.
Support for NUC
24.       In the document for this operation submitted by the Federal
Ministry of Education to the World Bank, total program support for NUC of
US$3 million was requested. This included an equipment maintenance fund of
$1.17 million, whose use was not fully elaborated at the time of appraisal,
and thus it could neither be evaluated nor included in the agreed program.
However program support for NUC omitted the costs of the local consultants
who will form the basis of the high level program steering group,



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 10
(paragraph 3); the costs of running the technical panels (paragraph 3); the
costs of the preparatory raining (paragraph 10); and the costs of any
local or foreign technical assistance. Taking these points into
consideration it was agreed that US$2.5 million should be allocated to NUC
out of the proceeds of the credit to finance the following:
First Year    Second Year    Third Year        Total
(USS million)----------------
Purchase of Vehicles and                0.16             0.03            0.03          0.22
Maintenance
Staff Development                       0.10             0.08           0.08           0.26
Local Transport and
Travelling                              0.08             0.09            0.09          0.26
Computing Equipment                     0.10             0.02            0.02          0.14
Office Equipment                        0.09              0.01           0.01          0.11
Studies Fund                            0.10              0.09          0.06           0.25
International Advisory Panel            0.20              0.20           0.20          0.60
Local Training                          0.05              0.05           0.05          0.15
Telex, Telephone, etc.                  0.05              0.05           0.05          0.15
Local & Foreign Consultants             0.05              0.06           0.05          0.46
Contingencies                           0.09              0.06           0.05          0.20
Total                             1.07               0.74          0.69          2.50



- 64 -
ANNEX 5, ATTACHMENT I
NIGERIA - FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
THE ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITIES COMMISSION
AND STAFF IN POST
The Commission (Board)
The Committees of the
Commission
(Accreditation, University
Development, Finance, Tender,
and Appointments and Promotion)
a:2
International                   OFFICE OF THE              b:4
Advisory Panel                 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY
Technical
Panels
Audit     Legal      Overseas    Information
Unit        Offices        and                    Statistics
a:U                                Publication                    and
b:3       a:l            a:2                                    Records
b:6           a:l
b:l                     a:6
c:l
Personnel        Finance           Research             Academic  [Physical Planning
and            and Post-            Planning    and Develonment
a:ll               Supplies          graduate
b:7                                 Development             a:19             a:13
c:l                 a:8                                     b:l
b:7              a:5
KEY
a:  Professional grade (69 in post, to increase to 89 plus two consultants by mid 1990)
b: Assistants (Executive cadre, 29 in post)
c: Technical (2 in post)
(Junior support staff not shown)



- 65 -
ANNEX 5, ATTACHMENT II
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA - FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
MONITORING THE ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
NUC Department
Eligibility Criterion               Nature of evidence                     Responsible
(a) Closure or merger of            Minutes of Senate                    Academic Planning
unauthorized departments        Student registration records
or faculties                    Congregation proceedings
Physical spot-check
(b) Closure or merger of            Full-time equivalent returns         Academic Planning
small and unviable              from student records
departments                     Academic staff record
Senate minutes
Physical spot-checks
NUC lists of those approved
10 years ago
University Calendars/Bulletins
(c) Postgraduate programmes         Convocation graduation lists         Academic Planning
to be viable or to be           Minutes of Senate establi-
closed                          shing department or program
Comprehensive lists of
academic departments with year of
establishment and approval by NUC.
Postgraduate enrolment returns
(d) Staff retrenchment              Calculations based on staff          Academic Planning
returns and student F.T.E.
load by department
Payroll
Lists of names of staff
to be retrenched and their
positions
Annual estimates submissions
Recruitment advertisements
Council and Senate minutes on
freezing recruitment, and
approving any new hiring
(e) Hostels fees to be              University accounts                  Finance
increased ar-d new              Personnel salary records
models of hostel                Returns of students housed
organization                    Records of consumables (including
develoned.                      separate metering of electricity
and water)



- 66 -
ANNEX 5, ATTACHMENT II
Page 2 of 2
NUC Department
Eligibility Criterion          Nature of evidence                  Responsible
(f) Raising non-govern-       Estimated hearings with NUC        Finance
mental revenues            Audited annual accounts
(g) Sub-degree and remedial  University statements of            Finance
programs to be self-       income and real expenditure       and Academic
financing                 Student records                    Planning
(h) Equipment maintenance    University plans for                Special Equipment
maintenance centers.              Panel of NUC,
Detailed inventory of             serviced by Academic
equipment                         Planning,
Existence of maintenance          to scrutinise
centers.                          submissions and
Spot checks.                      members to make
university visits.
Panel of NUC to
scrutinize and report.
(i) Standardized equipment   Equipment                           Technical review
procurement                orders submitted                  by Equipment
by universities                   Panel,
Effective use of new              Academic Planning
equipment
Accounts of purchases made
with universities' own and
other aid donor resources
(j)  Management Information  Routine returns in format           Academic Planning
Systems                  prescribed by NUC
Reports from ODA consultants    Finance
on arrangements for
collection and definition
of data elements
Documentation for annual
estimates hearings.



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
NIGERIA: FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
STUDENTS LOANS BOARD
History and Past Performance
1.        The Students Loans Board (SLB) was established in 1972 to make
loans to needy students attending post-secondary courses in Nigeria. In
1976 assistance was extended also to Nigerian students abroad. By .980 SLB
had lent about N28 million, three quarters of it to internal students.
Disbursements were running at about N2 million per annum, only small
amounts were due for repayment, and SLB had accumulated balances of as much
as 123 million.
2.        The 1980's have seen SLB's activities expand and then dwindle
almost to nothing. The number of new loans reached 5,704 in 1982 but fell
rapidly thereafter; in 1985-1988 there were no new loans at all. As a
result, disbursements to those with existing loans fell too, from a high of
N2.7 million in 1983 to virtually nothing in 1988. Total loan balances
outstanding increased from N28 million in 1980 to 146 million by the end of
1988.
3.        Given a poor rate of loan recovery of less than 0.1%  p.a. of
outstanding balances, compared with an expected level closer to 10.OZ,
SLB's financial situation continued to depend on interest received on its
bank deposits and on budgetary support from the Federal Government.
Interest received rose from 10.2 million in 1980 to N4.0 million by 1988.
There were also very large windfall gains in 1987-1988 from SLB's external
deposits as the naira depreciated. The recurrent subvention has also been
rising from NO.5 million in 1980 to 12.0 million in 1988.  Capital grants
have fluctuated sharply, from N13 million in 1980 to almost nothing in 1984
and back to about N2 million in 1988.
Lending Prospects
4.        Demand for Loans.  The demand for student loans is difficult to
predict. Data from students at a sample of universities indicate that
their education, including fees if any, textbooks, accommodation and food,
costs them between N1,500 and N3,100 p.a.  In addition, it is likely that
state governments will restrict their fairly extensive scholarship programs
reflecting their own more difficult financial situations. These trends
will increase demand for loans from SLB. In additLon the highly subsidized
interest rate will substantially increase demand.
5.        The current maximum loan amounts are not sufficient in relation
to present and likely private future costs of tertiary education. Students
enrolled in any post-secondary course in Nigeria can borrow up to N1,000
per annum to a total of 15,000; for students abroad the corresponding
amounts are N5,000 and 120,000.  The 1988 SLB Decree will need to be
amended to allow the Federal Ministry of Education and/or SLB to revise the



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
maximum annual and aggregate loan amounts per student each academic year
taking account of real costs borne by the students. At the undergraduate
level currently at least N2,000 is required a year for a total of N8,000,
and at the postgraduate level the present limits for internal students will
need to be increased immediately to N4,000 per annum and an aggregate of
18,000. New lending for students abroad is not recommended.
6.        The loan terms are heavily subsidized.  Repayments must begin
within two years of graduation, after the compulsory year with the National
Youth Service Corps. The interest is 7Z, applied once to the whole loan
amount i.e. 107? of the original amount must be repaid over 10 years. Each
year one-tenth of this i.e. 10.7? of the original principal must be repaid.
For internal graduates, the initial burden for a public servant (based on
existing approved loan amounts and salaries) would be as follows:
Degree    Entry Grade    Salary         Repayment    Z of Salary
B.A.        08          4,368          535 p.a.      12.2
M.A.        09          5,112          642 p.a.      12.6
Ph.D.        10          6,282          642 p.a.      10.2
These percentages appear affordable even in the context of other claims on
income such as income tax, rent and other loans.  As up to 20? of salary
for repayment might be possible, with existing subsidized interest rates
servicing a principal amount of up to N8,000 in total would be feasible.
Conversely with limited loan amounts interest rates could be increased to a
market rate of 16? - 17? p.a.
7.        SLB is required by its decree to lend only to students who are
"genuinely indigent and in need of the loan". To implement this, SLB is
using a procedure worked out for it by a University of Jos team to rank
applicants using the following criteria appropriately weighted:
parents'/guardian's and candidate's annual income; value of
parents'/guardian's assets/properties; number of dependents in family;
number of dependents actually in school; health/disability of dependents;
value of other financial support; and other relevant factors (distance from
home to educational institution and whether from single-parent or broken
home). The ranking process is being computerized to produce a list of
candidates by degree of eligibility. The basic data will be provided by
the applicant's local government.
8.        Resources for Lending.  SLB's own resources for lending consist
of its initial balances, totalling around 170 million, and annual interest
on these balances. Recoveries on the portfolio of N43 million in matured
loans (those on which repayments are due) should form the other important
source of funds. SLB has made a good start, recovering about 42 million in
the first four months of 1989. SLB does not have the information to
project scheduled repayments on matured and not-yet-matured loans, but a
rough estimate shows that the total amount overdue and therefore payable



- 69 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
immediately must be at least N23 million. Perhaps 102 p.a. of this (or
(N2.0 million p.a.) might be able to be recovered over the next two or
three years.
9.        Existing resources are sufficient to admit an additional five
thousand students into the program each year starting in 1989/90 for only
four years. A larger scale of operations, or an increase in the loan
amounts per student, would use up the SLB funds faster and pose the problem
of finding additional resources to sustain lending earlier.
Education Bank
10.       The proposal for an educational bank requires further study and
is not yet ready for appraisal. It is not recommended that it be appraised
and started until a feasibility study has been completed and the costs,
financing and sustainability have been worked out. A key question is
whether it would be able to make student loans entirely self-financing, or
whether Government support would need to continue, through direct
subventions, rediscounting, or some other mechanism.
SLB Institutional Issues
11.       SLB's board is currently reviewing a draft plan for the period
1990-92. If comprehensive, this "corporate plan" will serve as the basis
on which SLB's future strategy and needs for support from Government, IDA
and other sources will be assessed. SLB's board is currently reviewing an
updated organization chart and statements of the functions of different
units. The main changes from the present set-up are to bring together
responsibility for all phases of student loan transactions in the Loans
Department, and to create a Research and Development Department to perform
policy and statistical analyses and monitor developments. The functions of
headquarters, zonal offices and area offices are also being spelled out in
detail. The 1988 decree provides for SLB to have its headquarters at the
new Federal capital Abuja and three zonal offices at named locations. SLB
also is establishing an area office in each state, to be housed in that
state's Ministry of Education.
12.       A reasonable estimate can be made of the staffing requirements.
Some of the 21 functions to be discharged at headquarters can be grouped
under one chief, leaving about 14 small units and 4 large ones (the latter
mainly in the Loans Department). The small units need one senior staff and
four junior staff, the large ones perhaps three times as many. Each of the
three zonal offices is estimated to need three senior staff (loan officer,
accountant and administrator) and 17 junior staff, a third of the latter
for 24-hour security. Each of the 21 area offices is estimated to require
one loan officer and four junior staff. On this basis the required staffing
is as follows:



- 70
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
Senior    Junior    Total
HQ - executives                   8         19        27
- 4 large units               12         48        60
- 14 small units              14         56        70
Zonal offices                     9         51        60
Area offices                      21        84       105
Total                            64        258       322
13.       SLB's present staff consists of 57 senior staff and 366 junior
staff for a total of 423. Of these, 325 staff (including 37 senior) are at
Abuja. The organization has to rely unduly on the efforts of the Executive
Secretary while a number of the other executive positions are vacant or
lack strong incumbents. There are 30-36 staff (including 6-8 senior) in
each zonal office. Most of the area offices have not yet been opened and
staffed.
14.       In order to justify financial support from the credit the
following actions will need to be taken:
-    The Federal Ministry of Education must help SLB recruit competent
executives to head the planning, loans, finance and personnel
functions.
-    SLB should recruit a number of specialists in various relevant
fields, among them staff for its proposed computer unit.
-    Some of the existing senior staff should be retrained and
redeployed to head the new area offices.
-    Junior staff should be redeployed to man the area offices.
-    There should be a complete freeze of recruitment of generalist senior
staff and of junior staff.
-    At least 100 redundant junior staff should be removed from the rolls.
-    The Government provides the Bank with a realistic "corporate
plan' for SLB up to and including the 1992/93 academic year, stating
objectives and projecting lending, staffing, staff development needs,
financial objectives, and financial flows and statements.
-    The Bank carries out a technical review of SLB's computerization
proposal.
15.       The Government has requested a total of US$2 million of World
Bank assistance for SLB of which US$1.5 million was for the establishment
of an educational bank. Since this latter item has not been fully
elaborated, it is not possible for it to be considered as a part of this
operation. However it is certainly worth carrying out a detailed



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 5
preparation, feasibility and preinvestment study of an expanded SLB, an
alternative financial intermediary, or an educational bank as a part of
this operation. Government has also requested assistance for computers and
communications equipment, and staff development. It was agreed that the
computing equipment could be provided subject to a technical review of the
equipment requested; that the communications equipment could be provided,
and that the original request for staff development should be increased to
allow for senior SLB staff to visit and study other student loan schemes in
Europe, North and South America. It has thus been agreed that the
following assistance could be provided to the SLB from the proceeds of the
credit.
Support to SLB
(US$ Millions)
--------------------------------------------------------------__------
Year 1       Year 2   Year 3          Total
---------------------------------------------------------------------_
Feasibility/Preinvestment/
Preparation Study Education              -           0.05       0.05         0.10
Bank
-------------------------------------------------------------------__-
Staff Development                       0.05         0.13       0.12         0.30
-------------------------------------------------------------------__-
Computing and
Communications
Equipment                               0.46         0.02        0.02        0.50
---------------------------------__---------------------------_----__-
Contingencies 10X                       0.05         0.03        0.02        0.10
TOTAL-------------0.56-----------0.23----------0.21-----------1.0--__-
TOTAL                                   0.56         0.23        0.21        1.0
--------------------------------------------------------------------__



- 72 -
ANNEX 7-1
NIGERIA: FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
TOTAL ENROLLMENT BY INSTITUTION, SEX AND LEVEL OF COURSES, ACADEMIC YEAR, 1987/88
SUB-DEGREE   I FIRST DEGREE  I P/C DIPLOMA  I HIGHER DEGREE I    TOTAL         G GRAND TOTAL  I
I   COURSES    I   COURSES    I    CERT.       I   COURSES    I                I               I
INSTITUTION    --------------------------------------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
IM         F   IM          F   IM          F      I        F      MI       F   I    M  F F
FEDERAL:       I-------
ISADAN         I  248    11I  6,806  2,626  I   40    26  I 1,692    487  I 8,885  8,250  1    11,986
LAGOS          I  188    88  I 7,661  2,974  I  104    81  I 1,128   470  I 8,926  8,613            12,539
NSUKKA             3 822    180  I 8,882  2,685   148    16  1 1,148   271  110,476  8,161  1    13,628    I
ZARIA          I 1,498    449     7,981  1,924  I  121    44  1 1,812   486  110,867  2,865   I    13,710    1
IFE            I  816    44  I 8,904  2,790  I      0      0  1  810    112  110,029 2,946  1    12,97        I
BENIN              3 884    220    6,589  2,118    i 1s    1  I  69J   184  I 7,629  2,478  1    10,002
JOS            I  761    868  I 4,496 1,948   I    4       1      " 468    110  I 6,728  2,422  I    8,145
CALABAR          I 168    99  I 8,009  1,081  I   88    20  I  271        80  I 8,482  1,230  I      4,712    I
KANO           I 1,102    200  | 2,776   428  I    2       0  I  147    22  I 4,026   660  |         4,676    1
MAIDUGURI      I  417    176  I 4,419  2,804  I   12       8  1  177    41    5 5,026  2,628 3       7,548
SOKOTO         I  414      74     2,536   446       0      0       68      6 S    8,018    625       3,538
ILORIN         I   88    16  1 4,314  1,159  t      0      0 o    814    62  I 4,684  1,227  I       6,891
P/HARCOURT          3 882    225  I 3,790  1,188 0  83    42  I  394    139  I 4,699  1,694  1       8,193    |
BAUCHI         I  202      48  |  870   138  I      0      0 o0            0 o  1,072   186  |       1,268    I
MAKURDI        I  168     481   786   1161          0      o0       0      0      898    1681        1,066    1
OWERRI         |    0      0     1,487    133  I   0      0 o0            0  I 1,487    133  I      1,570
YOLA           1270        761   301      701       0      01       0      01   671    1461            716
AKURE          I    0      0 o    904    140  I    0       0  I    0       0  I  904    140  I       1,044
ABEOKUTA       I  899    1841   608   1441          0      0        0      0 1 902    8281           1,230
MINNA          |206        411   631    92          0      01       0      01   737    1833            870
SUB-TOTAL      I 7,818  2,687  177,271 24,461  1  668   282  1 8,407  2,380  193,564 29,680  1   123,234
s          I          8.1  1        82.6  1          8.4  1          8.7 I           100I                 I
ATC., ZARIA    I  878    180  |  332   190  I       0      0 o0            0 o    710   370            O 1,080    I
ATC., KANO     |  407    222  |  276    98  I       0      0 o0            0 o    682    320  |      1,002    1
ACE., ONDO     I  688   477  I  390   313  I        0      0        0      0 o    923    790  I      1,713
D.A.C.         I 1,628    866  I    0      0  I    0       0  I    0       0  I 1,625    366 I       1,880
SUB-TOTAL      I 2,841  1,284  |  997   601         0      0 o0            0  I 8,840  1,836  1      6,676    1
TOTAL          110,159  8,871  178,268 26,062  I  668   232  | 8,407 2,380  197,894 81,616  1   128,909    |
x            I         10.8 e         80.1  I          6.1  I          8.4  1               1               1
STATE:              _      I               I               I               I               I              I
STATE:                                    
ANAMBRA        I  818    172  I 3,291  1,128  I 86    10  I   26           8   3,720  1,311  I       6,031
RIVERS             1 164    64  12,144   662  I    0       0  I   65      1   1 2,363    629  I      2,992
IMO                 0      0 11,814    4201         0      0        0      01 1,814    4201          2,234
BENDEL         I  442    367  I 2,661  1,629  I     0      0 o     16      4  I 3,009  1,890  I      4,899
ONDO           I   72    46  12,464    7431         0      01       0      0 12,538    7891          3,326    I
OGUN           I  119    92  I 1,965   940  I   66    20  I    0           0  12,140  1,052          3 3,192
CROSS RV       | 1,827  1,036  I 2,188  1,200  I    0      0 o0            0 o  8,616  2,236  I      6,760    I
LAGOS               111   33  I 2,834  1,667  I    0      0  I    0       0  I 2,746  1,890  I      4,436    I
---- --- --- --  --- ---- --- -   - --- --- ----   ------------__--- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- __--------------   -------- ------   --------------
SUB-TOTAL      I 2,648  1,789  119,061  8,177  I  142    30  I  1o0    20  121,842 10,016  1    31,868 8
____I           -- -    - --I       I                   I      ---------------  I---------------I---------------I--------------I
STA A FED      112,702  6,680  197,319 33,229  1  700   262  | 8,618  2,380  1119,238 41,631 1   160,767    I
GRAND TOTAL    I       18,882  I      180,648  I         982  I       10,893          160,787
X          I        11.42  I        81.20  I        0.60            8 6.78  I      100.00
_   __ _=eI                                   c                                        c_ -- c I--   =:=   I==    Ic=c=_=cI_=====  



- 73 -
ANNEX 7-2
NIGERIA: FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
TOTAL STAFF NUMBERS FOR THE
ACADEMIC YEAR 1987/88
INSTITUTION      | ACADEMIC | SJ.IIOR  | SENIOR  | JUNIOR  | TOTAL
| STAFF   | TECH.   | ADMIN.  | STAFF
|  STAFF   I STAFF
-------------------I -------- I      ------- I--- - ----- I --  - - - I __-_-- - - -
IBADAN               I 1,129   |   581           574      3,739   I 6,023
LAGOS                |   846   |   442           949   | 2,781   | 5,018
NSUKKA               I   871   I   250   I    948   I 4,559   I 6,628
ZARIA                | 1,149   |   387   |    601         3,850   | 5,987
IFE                  I 1,040   I   402   i    587   I 2,945   I 4,974
BENIN                |   699         161   |    467       2,121   | 3,448
JOS                       444        159         233   I 1,455   I 2,291
CALABAR              |   446   |   147   |   341   j 1,655   | 2,589
KANO                 I   350   I    90   I   220   | 1,109   | 1,769
MAIDUGURI            j   656          54         15l   | 1,972   | 2,833
SOKOTO               j   283   |    82   |   110   I   961   | 1,436
ILORIN               I   432         166   I   335   | 1,366   | 2,299
PORT-HARCOURT        |   396   t   207           210   I 1,347   I 2,160
OWERRI               |   151   |      49   i   122   I   471   |   793
AKURE                |   103   |    35   I        72   |   288   |    498
MINNA                |    66   |    36            55        212   |    369
ABEOKUTA             I    51          59   I      33 3      254         397
BAUCHI               I   205   I    81   |   105   j   450   I   841
MAKURDI              |   126   |    63   |    82   |   458   I    729
YOLA                 I    93   I       9   |      54   |   346   |   502
ABUJA                I   N/A   j   N/A   I   N/A   j  N/A               N/A
------------------------------!----------1----------1----------1----------
SUB-TOTAL            I 9,536   I 3,460   | 6,249   | 32,339   | 51,584
_ _________________I  _____ _ I-------- -   -I -- - - - - -I ----------I ---------
ONDO                 I    93   I       6   |    24   |   281   |   404
ATC., ZARIA & KANO  I   193   |        8   |    30          495         726
DAC                        50   |    35   |    12   |   480   |   577
I                            I         I        I         I-----   ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
SUB-TOTAL            I   336   I    49   |        66   I 1,256   | 1,707
________________     ---I  _- - --- --I  _-- --- --I---------I----  --I -----
TOTAL                I 9,872   I 3,509   j 6,315   I 33,595   I 53,291
Source: Submissions of the Universities to the NUC during the
1988 Budget Estimates Hearings.



74 -                                                  ANNEX 7-3
U. 4|1                M1R    glll|lli 2 1  i>!4l                                                           i   2
Ti---------               -----    I--I--------------------
1a           I I  1                                                           I I     I     I     I     I     I     I  0   1    10   I   1  I    I   I
x        9     g .    I       I    .     .     .     .     .       9         .    qI  I  I  I    I  I,,
I                    on s  i ,                 I       I    I                9 .  I    I    I    i       I
U                ~~~~Iz
|  |  I X S  T    I   T    T    T    T    T  T    I   T    T    ~~~~~~I  T       TI                                    I
i1   iff         TITC II6 88w                                               2S$-    i$"                                
12    1W1i1  ~~I I>RsE9                                                                               *6* 811111  4Z
vi                                           ---------------------------
--       ---------------------------------------------
i                g               2E:S2W                                     11      
------------------------------------lulg



- 75 -                                                        ANNEX 7-4
I     s        ;::                    _ .I  :  I  I    I :      I    I    I   :           I         I   I    I    I o
:  s o   'x   :  I :        |    I    |    e     : I       I    I    I    :                    I               I2
:   .   .   .   I   ID   '   '   :   :   I .   I       I    :                       I   I        I
_____________                                                                         II                                _______________ 
I   i>n   I    I    I ~ I    I ~ I N I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I   I   I   I   I
I   fe                           IIJLI  I tI   I~
I n
-I.----                                                                             I         II~-- --- -- --
ig                I                                ii~ 
ebiu.i r       Ii .iS' I j '3- 19j      j .jWj|&js'ja|e      j 1  iS l S Si          i      i      -  j I;E -     fI-
U. X   W  [  N   ,   '   .  N   '    '         .   8    '   |   ,   ;    .     ,    ,    ,    *   I  
Is,|    l            I     , I m'      ,  j8         |     I|    |       ,|       9I      |         ,    |        I  
t   I   I IL I I I I I I I e  I r7 1 1 1 0  I v  I I I N  I . I I I I I I I { I I I I I I I I t I I r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    I I    I      I 
7 |    ,-  1 -77 1-7                                                       1 i li    1111s
I Ii                                                                                    I               I    I          I 1;
Y  I   I     I    I    I    I     I    I    I    I    I     I    I    I    II  I       -     -     -     -             I -  
CI  _________________________________________.  _______. .~~~~~~~~~~1
j~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t j     ,, t1                           '|-|*|"                           'j'|||'j|j    j    j     i
Wi   k-              - - - - - - -        - - - - - - - - - - - - -            - - - - - - - - - - - - -



- 76 -
ANNEX 7-5
NIGERIA: FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
FEDERAL RECURRENT GRANTS TO NIGERIAN UNIVERSITIES
REQUESTED, RECOMMENDED & RECEIVED - 1976177-1989
(N MILLION)
REQUESTED       RECOMMENDED    RECEIVED
BY               BY             BY
YEAR      UNIVERSITIES         NUC            NUC
1976            187             165             137
1977            279             184             154
1978            394             232             140
1979            308             234             200
1980             -              290             261
1981             -              343             321
1982             -              580             335
1983             -              667             371
1984            821             669             428
1985            695             471              422
1986            691             466             415
1987            731             616              316
1988            805             779              575
1989          1,061             778              575
1990            n.a             n.a.             655
SOURCES:   Nigeria, "Costs and Financing of Univer-
sities" and NUC unpublished figures.



- 77 -
ANNEX 7-6
NIGERIA: FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT CAPITAL GRANTS TO UNIVERSITIES, 1980-89
(N Million)
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
CAPITAL
GRANTS            210.5  350.1  210.6  133.2   41.1   55.1  143.0  119.8    96          130
Source: NUC Unpublished Data



- 78 -
Annex 7-7
NIGERIA FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
ESTIMATED FOREIGN AID FOR FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES
IDRC (1988 Actual) for
9 Research Projects                                    Can.$958.435
Ford Foundation (1988 Est) for
more than 20 Research and
training projects                                      US$2,000,000
EEC (1989/1990/1991/Est) for
research programmes on
agriculture, environment, and
administration and management,
and on equipment maintenance                          ECU.9,150,000
ODA/British Council (1989/1990/
1991/Est) for six projects
largely involving consultancies
and overseas training                                 UKP.3,000,000
Library Grants. UNESCO coupons
donations from Embasies, book
publishers (1988 estimate)                            US$250,000
In total current foreign assistance to the universities is of the
order of US$8 million p.a., the large proportion of wnich is
devoted to research projects and twinning arrangements between
foreign and local universitie.. There is a potential for some
increase in allocations from EEC and ODA in the next two years.



- 79 -
Annex 7-8
NIGERIA FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
TOTAL FINANCING OF FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES. 1990 TO 1994
CONSTANT 1989 NAIRA (MILLION)
1990/91     %   1991/92       %    1992/93      %    1993/94
Federal Recurrent Grants             675    48.9       676    46.2       676    43.0      844      47.7
University Income Generation 1/       24      2.0       43      3.4       83      4.7      73       6.4
Students Private Expenditures 1/ 2/  201    18.4       213    16.7       242    18.1       269     19.2
IDA Credit Recurrent 3/               96      7.7      102      8.0      102     7.7       66       4.9
Other Foreign Asst. Recd. 4/          29      2.3       29      2.3      386      2.7      36       2.7
TOTAL RECURRENT                   924    76.3       962    76.6      1018    78.2    1078       79.9
Federal Capital grants               160    12.2       150    11.8       150    11.2      150      11.1
IDA Credit Capital 3/                124    10.1       132    10.4       132      9.9      88       8.4
Other Foreign Asst. Cap. 4/           29      2.4       29      2.2       36      2.7      36       2.6
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__----------------------------
TOTAL CAPITAL                     303    24.7       311    24.4       318    23.8      272      20.1
GRAND TOTAL                      1227   100.0    1273   100.0    1336   100.0    1360    100.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------__---------__--------------------------
Notes
A constant USS/Naira exchange rate of M7.2 to USS1 has been assumed
1.  Postgraduate student fees have been included under university income generation and not under student
private expenditures.
2.  Student loans from the loans board have been included under student private expenditures.  Student
private expenditures include food, transport, books and lodging. They have been assumed to be
maintained at a minimum level of M1,600 p.a., until 1991/92 and then increased by 10%.
3.  Books, journals, (including backlog) and regular maintenanco have been Included under recurrent.  All
other Items are assumed to be capital. Only the US8116.6 million of the credit going to universities
included.
4.  60% of other foreign assistance is assumed to be capital.



NIGERIA: FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
ENROLLMENT AND ACADEMIC STAFF PROJECTIONS 1990 - 1994
Permitted
Student-
Students by   Staff Ratios    Projected Degree Students hy Faculty             Permitted   Academic   Staff
Faculty        1989        ----------------------________________________________________.-.____________________
raculty               1988/87       porameters   1980/91    1991/92    1992/93    1993/94    1990/91    1991/92    1992/93    1993/94
______________________________________________ ______________________________________________ __________________________________________ -___
SCIENCE-BASED
Agriculture                 8609            9            8432      9754      1044      11908        938       1083       1182     1322
Earth/Mir,eral Sci           684           10             719       832        908       1016         72         83        90       101
Engineering                10894            9           13900     18079      17S4C      19826       1644       1788      1949      2180
Environ. Design             4227           10            6393      8238       8808       7816        639        823       680       768
Medicine/Health Sci         9704            8           12381     14322      15829      17481       20e3       2U87      2604      2913
Pharmacy                    1995           10            2646      2944       3213       3594        264        294       323       359
Science                    18664           10           21249     24680      28822      30002       2124       2458       2682     3000
Vet. Medicine               1292            6            1648      1908       2080       2327        274        317       346       387
SUB-TOTAL                61939                       88287      78856      83849      93566       7806       9031      98S8     11023
ARTS-BASED                                                                                                                                      03
Administration              7166           20            8981      8912       8884       8838        348        345        343      341
Arte                       18346           20           15900     16790      15681      16621        796        789       784       781
Education                  19201           24           18877     18548      18419      18349        778        772       787       784
Low                         7209           20            7012      6984       6916       8889        360        348       346       344
Social Science             16572           20           16147     15043      14938      14881        757        762        746      744
SUB-TOTAL                86484                        83897     83267      62817      B2580       3028       3008      2985      2974
DEGREE STUDENTS         117423                       129984    139912     148486    156148
SBS/Reeedial/Gen Stud
(Sub-Degree)               11522                        4000       2000      -          -
TOTAL                   120670                       133984    141912     148488    168148       10834      12037     12841     13997
-



- 81 -
ANNEX 8
NIGERIA: FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
DISBURSEMENT PROJECTIONS
CREDIT
IDA FISCAL      DISBURSEMENT       CUMULATIVE         REGIONAL
YEAR AND      DURING QUARTER    DISBURSEMENTS       CUMULATIVE     SALS Z OF
QUAPTER        US$ MILLION      US $ MILLION       Z OF TOTAL       TOTAL
1991    I           5.0              50.0               4.2
II           7.0              12.0             10.0               5.0
III           8.0              20.0              16.7
IV           8.0              28.0             23.3              36.0
1992    I           8.0              36.0              30.0
II           8.0              44.0             36.7              61.0
III           8.0              52.0              43.3
IV           8.0              60.0             50.0              80.0
1993    I           8.0              68.0              56.7
II           8.0              76.0              63.3             92.0
III           8.0              84.0              70.0
IV           8.0              92.0              76.7             98.0
1994    I           8.0             100.0              83.3
II           8.0             108.0             90.0             100.0
III           8.0             116.0             96.7
IV           4.0             i20.0            100.0             100.0



- 82 -                                ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
Nigeria Data Sheet
Social Indicators:
Area (thousand km2               924                  Population (1988, million):                      110
Denuity (people/km ):            119                  Rate of growth (1086-90,                         3.2
Population Characteristics:                            Health:
Crude birth rate (per 1,000):  47                      Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births):   105
Crude death rate (per 1,000):  16                      Population per physician (1,000):               7
Life expectancy (yoars):        61                     Population per hospital bed (1,000):            1
Maternal mortality (per 1,000 live births):  16
Access to safe water:                                  Education:
Percent of urban population:   60                      Primry school enrollmnt rate (1986, 3):    76
Percent of rural population:   16
Nutrition per capita:
Daily calorie intake:        2,146
Doily protein Intake (gram):  48
GNP per capita (USS, 1988):  290
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT:              1988               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (U  constant prices)
USIBIn      X                    1982-87          1988
CDP at Market Prices            30.0      100.0                  -1.8             8.9
Gross Domestic Investment        8.7       12.3                 -17.0            11.9
Gross National Smving            2.5        8.4                   18.6           16.8
Current Account Balance         -1.2        4.0                    --              --
Export of Goods A NFS            7.7      26.7                    1.2            10.6
Import of Goods A NFS            7.0      23.3                  -22.0            -2.6
OUTPUT. EMPLOYMENT, AND PRODUCTIVITY:
Value Addod              Labor Force           V.A  por Worker
USBlin       XT _                   X             US3          X  1/
Agriculture                     10.1       34.6          27.1    68              373          61
Petroleum                        7.3      26.0            0.4       1          18260        2486
Manufacturing                    B.0       10.3           4.0     10             760         102
Construction                     0.4        1.4           0.4       1           1000         136
Services                         6.4       28.8           8.0     20            1060         143
Total/Average                   29.2      100.0          39.8                    734
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
Genoral Government                     Federal Government
Fln          X T 5o-CF            p I Bln)          I of CDP
1988         1988  1986             1988            1988   1986
Current Receipts                33.3          24.6  19.8             18.6           13.8   10.3
Current Expenditure             26.7          19.8  16.2             18.0           13.3    7.7
Current Surplus                  6.6           4.9   4.6             0.6             0.0    2.7
Capital Expenditures            14.5          10.8   8.6              9.7            7.2    4.8
1/ Compared with average value added per worker in the economy at large.



- 83 -                               ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
Nigeris Dat* Sheet
MONEY, CREDIT & PRICES:                   1986        1997      1988       1989
B;Ilions of Nair*, End of Period
Money Supply (M2)                       24.4       29.9       40.0      48.3
Bank Credit to Public Sucto             18.1        19.8      26.8      26.6
Bank Crodit Private Sector              18.7       22.1       26.7      29.4
Annual percontage changes in:
Money Supply (M2)                        2.7       22.b       88.8      208
Bank Credit to Public Sector            -2.6        9.4       80.8      -0.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector           29.0       18.2       20.8      10.1
M2 as X of CDP                            29.8       30.4       29.6      22.1
Consumer Price Index (1976 a 100)        683.5      6900.      679.3    1190.7
Consumer Price Index (Percent Change)   13.6          9.7       4080      27.9
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ BIn):   1986    1987   1988   1989   MEROCAIQISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1986-8): US3 WIn    X
Exports of Goods A NFS              7.1     6.0    7.7   10.1   Petroleum Products                            7999   94
of which, Petroleum              6.0      7.8    7.4    9.7   Cocoa                                          247    3
Imports of Good. & NFS              8.5     6.6    7.0    7.6   Manufactured Good                                86    1
Resource Cap (deficit a -)         -1 4     1      07    2li  All other comotities                              173    2
Total                                       -j84  165
Interest Peyments (net)            -0.6   -0.6   -1.8   -1.4
Other Factor Paymente (net)        -0.8    -0.6   -0.6   -0.7
Net Transfer.                      -0.2     0.0    0.0    0.0   EXTERNAL DEBT (12/81/89)                   USS Bin
Balance on Curront Account       -7 2              T-1O  --:0
Public Debt, inl. Guarenteed                 31.9
Direct Foreign Investment           0.5     0.6    0.4    2 t I/Private Non-Guaranted Debt                      0.3
Net ULT Borrowing                   0.1     0.7   -0.1   -0.2   Total Outstanding A Disbursed                  32.2
Disbure ma nts                    1.3     1.1    1.0    1.5
Amortization                      1.2     0.4    1.1    1.7
Othor Capital                       1.4    -1.8    0.6   -1.e   IBRO/IDA LENDING (USS Min., 12/81/69)   I3RD  IDA
Overall Balance                    -0.9     0.0   -0.8    1.0   Outstanding A Disbursed                       2,906   30
Undiebursed                                 1,960   99
Increarv  in Reserves (-)          0.9      0.0    0.3   -1.0   Total Outstanding inc. Undiab.               4,88   129
Cross Reserves (end yer)            1.1     1.0    0.6    1.S   NET DEBT SERVI.E RATIO FOR 1989                 %
Public Debt,  dlnl. Public Gwuarnteed        28.2
Private Non-Guaranted                         1.9
Total Outstanding & Disbursed                30.1
EXCHANGE RATES                  1985    1986    19"7    198d    1989    1190-2/0
USS1.00 a N (Annual Average)   0.89    1.75    4.02    4.64    7.86           7.88
b1.00      US$ (Annual Average)   1.12    0.74    0.26    0.22    0.14      0.13
1/ Reflects sale of oil leses to Shell for US82 billion.



-  84 -                            ANNEX  9
Nigeria:  KEY MACROECONOHIC VARIASLES             Page  3 of 3
Current                Shares of Grass Domestic Product (from current price data)
Billions                        Historical                             Projected
A. National Accounts                   1988             1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1995    1997
Gross Domestic Product m.p.            30.0           100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   10(.0  100.0
Net Indirect Taxes                    0.7             1.9      2.3     '.5      1.9   - 2.4     2.3      2.3     2.3      2.2
Non-Oil GDP                         22.0             83.1    82.1    86.4    65.1    73.3    64.6    63.7    63.6    64.5
Agriculture                       10.1             35.1    34.3    35.4    29.1    33.7    30.0    29.4    28.1    27.8
Manufacturing                       3.0            10.6    11.6    12.4      8.6    10.1      8.6      8.8    10.2    11.1
Construction                       0.4              1.7      1.7     2.3     1.3      1.4     1.3      1.2     1.3      1.4
Services                           8.4             35.8    34.5    36.4    26.1    28.1    24.7    24.2    24.0    24.2
Petroleum                             7.3            15.0    15.6    11.1    33.1    24.3    33.2    34.0    34.1    33.3
Resource Balance                        0.7             1.7      3.3    -2.3      5.4     2.4     8.4      4.2     5.7      5.9
Exports of GNFS                       7.7            13.2    14.4    11.6    32.5    25.7    34.3    33.7    32.5    32.6
Imports of GNFS                      7.0             11.5    11.1    13.9    27.0    23.3    25.9    29.5    26.8    26.7
Total Expenditures                     29.3            98.3    96.7   102.3    94.6    97.6    91.6    95.8    94.3    94.1
Consumptlon                         2e.6             92.4    89.2    92.6    83.1    85.2    79.1    81.8    77.8    75.3
Gross Domestic Investment             3.7             5.9      7.5     9.7    11.4    12.3    12.5    14.0    16.5    18.8
Gross Domestic Saving                   4.4              7.6    10.8     7.4    16.9    14.7    20.9    18.6    22.1    24.5
Gross National Saving                   2.5              6.0     3.5     5.3    11.2      8.4    13.9      9.1    15.4    19.1
Percentage Growth Rates at Constant Prices
-------------------------------_-----------------------------__--------
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    95 11   97 21
Gross Domestic Product m.p.                              7.4     8.3      3.4    -4.7     3.9      4.9     3.7      4.3     4.5
Net Indirect Taxes                                  -34.0    32.2    11.4   -25.2    29.2        4.9     3.7      4.3     4.5
Non-OLl GDP                                           -9.4     7.8     4.2    -3.1      2.4      3.0     4.1     4.5      5.1
Agriculture                                        -6.7    14.3      9.2    -7.7      5.5      4.0     3.4     3.6      4.0
Manufacturing                                     -14.2    13.2    -5.1       5.1     6.5      0.0     8.5      7.6     8.7
Construction                                      -49.5    -1.7      7.7      1.0     1.3      3.5     2.5     5.9      7 3
Services                                           -7.0      0.2     1.6    -0.4    -2.2      2.8      3.6     4.3      4.9
Petroleum                                            11.7      8.4    -1.2   -10.5      9.2    16.5      1.2     3.0      0.6
Resource Balance                                     -153.8   154.9    60.3       9.5    20.4    18.6    -3.0       3.5    -2.2
Exports of GNFS                                      15.5    13.4    -2.9   -11.1    10.8    16.0        3.2     3.3      1.0
Imports of GNFS                                     -20.9    -7.3   -28.3   -29.6    -2.6    11.4    14.6        3.1      5.8
Total Expenditures                                    -11.5      5.8     1.1    -5.7      2.6      3.7     4.3     4.4      5.1
Total Consumption                                    -7.6      4.3     1.4    -4.2      2.1      3.4     3.8     4.0      4.3
Gross  somestic Investment                          -47.0    29.1    -2.6   -24.5    11.9        9.0    12.5     8.6    13.1
Gross Domestic Saving                                   -5.0    57.1    20.1    -8.1    16.7    14.7       3.0     5.7      5.5
Gross National Saving                                   -8.6    61.0    35.5    -8.7    15.8    15.1       0.3     6.3      6.3
Current
US$
Billions               Shares of Gross Domestic Product (from current price data)
________-       -----------------------------------------------------------------------
B. Public Finance:                     1988             1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1995    1997
Revenues                                7.5             17.9    19.8    23.8    29.0    24.6    27.2    28.9    30.7    31.3
Current Expenditures 3/                 4.7             15.6    14.1    16.3    17.3    15.7    12.1    12.9    12.7    12.3
Public Investment                       3.1              4.2     5.0     7.1      8.6     7.9      8.0     8.7    10.2    11.8
C. Other Indicators:                                    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   91 1/   97 21
CPI (I chane in Annual average)                           40       6       5       10      38       45      20       10      10
CPI (X change December to December)                       23       1      14       10      49       28      16       10      10
GDP Deflator (S ChuLSe)                                   18       4       -2     *26      32       54      16       11      12
Investment Deflator (S change)                             8      12      34       88      32       50      20       10      10
Popu)ation Growth Rate (S)                               3.4     3.4     3.4      3.3     3.2      3.1     3.1      3.0     3.0
Real Import Growth (Total Imports) (2)                 -21.1    -7.8   -31.1   -22.6    -8.2    12.1    15.7        3.0     5.8
Real Import Growth (Non-Oil, Non-Project) (S)          -21.1    *'.8   -31.1   -22.6    -8.2       2.6     4.5      6.7     8.0
Import Elasticity (KGNFSIGDPmp) (1)                      2.8    -0.9    -8.3      6.3    -0.7      2.3     4.0      0.8     1.3
ICOR (1 7r. floatina base)                              -1.3     0.8     1.,    -3.2      6.4      5.1     4.1      4 1     4.3
11 Annual avarage: 1991-1995       21 Annual average: 1996-1997    31 ExcludLng foreLgn interest



- 85 -                             ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
(As of March 31, 1990)
Amount in USS million
Loan          Fiscal                                                            (less cancellation)
Number        Year      Borrower       Purpose                             Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Forty-three loans and two credits fully disbursed                        1598.8      39.9
1981-UNI        81      Nigeria    Bauchi Agricultural Devt               132.0                   3.1
1982-UNI        81      Nigeria    Kano Agricultural Devt                 142.0                   8.4
2029-UNI        81      Nigeria    Agricultural Tech Assistance            47.0                   0.2
2036-UNI        82      Nigeria    Anambra Water Supply & Sanit.           67.0                   5.3
2185-UNI        82      Nigeria    Sokoto Agricultural Devt               147.0                   3.3
2299-UNI        83      NIDB        Industrial Devt (NIDB IV)             120.0                  20.9
2376-UNI        84      NBCI        Small/Medium Scale Industry I          41.0                  23.7
2390-UNI        84      NNPC        Gas Technical Assistance               18.4                  17.0
2436-UNI        84      Nigeria    Integrated Agric Devt (Kaduna)         122.0                  76.1
2480-UNI        85     Nigeria    Technical Assistance                     13.0                   8.8
2503-UNI        85      Nigeria    Sokoto Health                           34.0                  26.7
2528-UNI        85      Nigeria    Borno State Water Supply                72.0                 54.2
2607-UNI        86     Nigeria    Urban Development II (Imo)               53.0                 37.7
2618-UNI        86     Nigeria    Industry Tech Assistance                  5.0                   3.0
2620-UNI        86     Nigeria    Lagos Solid Waste & Storm.               72.0                  45.7
2733-UNI        86     Nigeria    Multi-State Agric Devt I                162.0                 95.7
2734-UNI        86     Nigeria    Transport Parastatals                    20.9                  16.1
2737-UNI        87     Nigeria    Livestock Development II                 81.0                  58.7
2741-UNI        87     Nigeria    South Borno Agric Devt                   25.0                  18.8
2758-UNI        87      Nigeria    Trade Policy & Export Devt             452.0                   0.8
2760-UNI        87      Nigeria    Forestry II                             71.0                  60.6
2925-UNI        88      Nigeria    Infrastructure Devt Fund /c             69.5                  69.5
2926-UNI        88     Nigeria    Technical Education                      23.3                 20.2
2963-UNI        88     Nigeria    Highway Sector                          250.0                250.0
2985-UNI        89     Nigeria    Lagos State Water Supply /c             173.2                173.2
2988-UNI        89      Nigeria    Multi-State Agric Devt II               85.2                 85.2
2995-UNI        89     Nigeria    Private Small & Med Enter. Dev          270.0                255.0
3011-UNI        89     Nigeria    Trade & Investment Policy               500.0                 19.4
3034-UNI        89      Nigeria    Imo Health & Population                 27.6                 27.1
2035-UNI (CR)  89       Nigeria    Third Multi-State Agric Devt /c                 100.9         96.9
3104-UNI        89      Nigeria    Refineries Rehabilatior. /b             27.7                 27.7
3116-UNI        89      Nigeria    Power System Maintenance /b             70.0                  70.0
3125-UNI        89      Nigeria    Tree Crops /b                          106.0                106.0
3126-UNI        89      Nigeria    Essential Drugs /b                      68.1                 68.1
3183-UNI        89      Nigeria    National Seed and Quarantine /b         14.0                  14.0
TOTAL                                                     5180.7    140.8       1867.3
of which has been repaid                                843.0      10.6
Total now held by Bank & IDA                           4337.7    130.2
Amount sold                          16.8
of which has been repaid        16.8
Total undisbursed                                      1770.3      96.9      1867.3
ja  The status of the proitects 1istsc in Part A is describPd in a separate report en all
Bank/IDA financed projects in exAcution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Agreement to be signed.
/c Agreement signed but not yet effective.



- 86 -                             ANNEX 1U
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1990)
nvestment  Fiscal                             Types of                Loan  Equity    Total
lumber     Year        Obligor                Business               (Amount in US$ million)
'0 UNI      1964    Arewa Textiles Ltd.       Textile Mfg.             1.0      0.6      1.6
.21 UNI     1967
1970
i8 UNI      1964    Nigeria Development       Dev. Finance Co.                  1.4      1.4
Bank Industrial
!46 UNI     1973    Funtua Cottonseed         Vegetable Oil            1.6               1.6
Crushing Ltd.
~47 UNI     1973    Nigeria Aluminum          Aluminum                 1.0      0.3      1.3
1974      Extrusion Ltd.            Processing
789 UNI     1974    Lafiagi Sugar Estate      Sugar                             0.1      0.1
482 UNI     1980    Nigeria Textile Mills    Textiles                  20.8     0.7     21.5
362 UNI     1987      Ltd.
540 UNI     1981    Ikeja Hotel               Tourism                  10.6     1.5     12.1
720 UNI     1985
990 UNI     1988
724 UNI     1985    Tiger Battery             Dry-cell Batteries        7.1               7.1
1222 UNI    1990
960 UNI     1987    Nige.-ia Engineering      Motor Vehicles and       11.1              11.1
Works Ltd.                Accessories
1000 UNI    1988    Dunlop Nigeria            Motor Vehicles ind       12.5              12.5
Accessories                   _
Total gross commitments                                   65.7      4.6     70.3
Less cancellations, terminations, exchange
adjustments, repayments and sales                       37.9     2.7      40.6
Total comnitment now held by IFC                          27.8      1.9     29.,
Total undisbursed including participants portion           4-8      0.0      4.f



r   t?iD                                ~~~~~~~~~~ISIGERIA                       -
r                        ~~~~F'EDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT   s -
;m  >A slttt avSECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
t SO~~~~~~~~5KOTO                                 -                                .-J\BORNO 
<)  S        eKADUNA~~~~~~~~XDq                 SALYk 7.Aur-r SX 
\ \  J   \          I              1g 2        Bwl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uez- College,A. U.   s   r _
,S     }    ~~NIGER    ' NA|}<3\                          
J     AR            of r-hni/ogy       -;  W      /sM dbef    f\
|o-     t   at,,            Ahwj,  FCTN         PLATEAU                             J
Untversch,  \, in  KW/ARA     rrGO OA                                         r
Ofu- - 
fleir                                                              GONGOLA|   BNEo  nvsiD       
J  )Uevn rri is/fe
of~~~~        oof TchnA  {RltR\ o__6
{ /  t   > Unev { h {   _=  3  ~~~~~~~~~I  Unwsit ocs n
U-                                             Natk30/  capBcWs
no~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f AYB   IACUn\
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AfkWA-/AI                                       MUE o  zb UA d) 4 tb 



