Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16639
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Cr. 2139-UNI)
June 5, 1997
Human Development 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(April 24, 1997)
Currency Unit               Naira
SDR1                       US$1.37
US$1                 =      SDR.73
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CVC           Committee of Vice Chancellors
FMEYD         Federal Ministry of Education and Youth Development
FMF           Federal Ministry of Finance
NEB           National Education Bank
NUC           National Universities Commission
PIC           Project Implementation Committee
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director: Yaw Ansu
Technical Manager: Helena Ribe
Team Leader: William Saint



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
[Cr. 2139-UNI]
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .....................................................................i
PART  I:  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION   ASSESSMENT .............................................................1
1. INTRODUCTION   ........                        ............................................................I
A. Macroeconomic Setting ....................................................................  1
B. Bank's Role in the Sector .....................................................................I
II.  PROJECT  OBJECTIVES .....................................................................2
A. Original Project Objectives .....................................................................2
B. Project Description and Components .....................................................................2
C. Credit Covenants and Special Agreements .....................................................................3
D. Evaluation of Project Objectives .                  ....................................................................                  5
III.  IMPLEMENTATION   EXPERIENCE  AND  RESULTS  ...........................................................5
A. Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability .....................................................................5
B. Summary of Costs and Financing Arrangements ......................                 ..............................................         8
C. Implementation Schedule .....................................................................8
D. Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives .....................................................................8
E. Assessment of the Borrower's and the Bank's Performance .....................................................................             9
F. Assessment of Project's Outcome ......................................................................9
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED  .......                  ............................................................. 10
A. Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience .                           ...................................................................   10
B. Future Operations and Sustainability ....................................................................                                12
C. Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector ....................................................................                           12
PART  Il:  STATISTICAL  ANNEXES ....................................................................                                            14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..................................................................... 15
Tabie 2: Related Bank LoansCredits .................................................................... .                                   16
Table 3: Project Timetable ............................................................................ ..... 16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .                            .................................................................. 17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Tranche Release .......................................................... ......................               17
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project .........................         ........................................................ 18
Table 7: (A) Project Costs and (B) Financing ................................................................................ 19
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants ................................................................................ 20
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................................................................                     26
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions ................................................................................. 27
APPENDIXES:
A. Mission's Aide-mdmoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
[Cr. 2139-UNI]
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Federal Universities
Development Sector Adjustment Credit in Nigeria, for which Credit 2139-UNI in the
amount of SDR 93.5 million equivalent was approved on May 24, 1990 and made
effective on October 12, 1990.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1996 after three extensions from the original
closing date of June 30, 1994. The first tranche of SDR 31.2 million, released upon
effectiveness, was almost fully disbursed by April 30, 1997. Subsequent tranches totaling
SDR 62.3 million were canceled on June 30, 1994 as part of a re-structuring exercise. An
undisbursed balance of SDR 936,259 was canceled on April 30, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by William Saint, Human Development 3 of the Africa Region, and
reviewed on May 7, 1997 in a meeting chaired by Mr. Yaw Ansu, Country Director for
Nigeria. The Borrower provided its own report which appears as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision mission in September
1995 and completed during final discussions with the Borrower in November 1996. It is
based on several commissioned project assessments and on materials in the project file.
The Borrower helped to prepare the ICR by commissioning its own evaluation of the
project's execution, undertaking a beneficiary survey, contributing its Project Completion
Report and the views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, and commenting on the
draft ICR.
The Bank wishes to recognize that Borrower staff entrusted with project implementation
faced considerable adversity. Obstacles beyond the control of the implementing staff
were: the move of National Universities Commission offices from Lagos to Abuja in
1992, year-long national strikes by university staff which closed campuses in 1992 and
1996, severe shortages of petrol in 1994 and 1995, two changes of government, the
establishment of five new federal universities, and periodic telecommunications and
power interruptions.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
[Cr. 2139-UNI]
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   Introduction. Agreements for a Federal Universities Development Sector
Adjustment Credit of SDR 93.5 million were signed on July 18, 1990 and became
effective on October 12, 1990. The credit was designed to be a quick-disbursing three-
year program in support of university sector reform and national macro-economic
adjustment underway at that time. Various factors delayed significant disbursements
until the third year. Consequently, the project's second and third tranches were canceled
in June 1994, the project was re-structured, and its closing date was extended for one year
to permit full expenditure of the first tranche. In March 1995 the closing date was further
extended through December 31, 1995 so that sizable shipments of university equipment
could be received and installed. A final one-year extension to December 31, 1996 was
granted by the Bank in October 1995 in order to enable the receipt of scientific journal
subscriptions by university libraries throughout 1996.
2.    Bank's Role in the Sector. This credit represents the Bank's first attempt to
assist major university reform in Sub-Saharan Africa. It remains the Bank's largest and
most complex project in support of national tertiary education systems in Africa. Prior to
this project, the Bank had a very limited role in Nigeria's educational development.
Three education projects amounting to US$91.3 million were approved between 1965 and
1973. Following a fifteen-year hiatus, Bank assistance to the education sector
development resumed in 1989 with a credit for Technical Education. Balanced support
to the sector following the Federal Universities credit was completed through subsequent
investments in Primary Education and in Development Communications. A credit for
Junior Secondary Education was also prepared, appraised and negotiated in 1994, but was
withdrawn by Government just prior to Board submission. Shortly thereafter, persistent
difierences between the Government and the Bank over the country's macro-economic
policies led to a cessation of lending which remains in effect.
3.    Project Objectives and Components. The overall project objective was to assist
the Federal Government, through its parastatal intermediary of the National Universities
Commission (NUC), to improve the effectiveness and relevance of university teaching
and research while encouraging the universities to become more cost-effective. Project
components embraced the provision of books, scientific journals, laboratory and teaching
equipment, staff training, and MIS development for the universities, plus institutional
strengthening for the NUC and the National Education Bank.



4.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreements. Project objectives were reinforced
by Special Conditions for tranche releases and by Eligibility Conditions governing each
university's participation in the project. Tranche conditions encouraged universities to
lessen the recurrent cost per student, to increase non-governmental income, and to reduce
over-staffing and other areas of wastage. Eligibility conditions sought to foster cost-
efficiency by progi._ssively improving staff/student ratios, decreasing the numbers of
non-academic staff, eliminating non-degree and low-demand academic programs,
encouraging cost-recovery and income generation, enhancing management information
systems, and initiating equipment maintenance.
5.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. Project objectives were clear and highly
relevant to the future development of the higher education sub-sector, the overall
education sector, and capacity building for national economic development. But they
were too ambitious for the project's three-year time frame, and too complex for
management by an untested implementation agency.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
6.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability. As a quick-disbursing
adjustment operation designed to leverage significant changes in policies regarding
university financing and efficiency, the project cannot be considered more than a partial
success. Short-term gains in the improvement of educational quality resulted from the
provision of books, journals, and laboratory equipment. Notable improvements were
registered in promoting efficiency of resource use. But little progress was made in
placing university financing on more sustainable footing, as attested by government's
resistance to meaningful student fees, the growing difficulties in staff retention, and the
inability of universities to substantially expand the portion of their revenue base
contributed by non-governmiental sources. As a result, the various achievements under
the project's development objectives must be considered unsustainable, and the outcome
of the project must therefore be rated unsatisfactory.
7.    Summary of Costs and Financing Arrangements. The total project cost was
US$ 44,392,661. As an adjustment operation, this amount was fully funded by IDA.
Total disbursements of the Credit at project closure were US$ 44,392,661.
8.    Implementation Schedule. The credit was planned as a quick-disbursing three-
year program in support of university sector reform and national macro-economic
adjustment. Various factors delayed significant disbursements until the project's third and
final year. Because of poor disbursement performance, the project's second and third
tranches were canceled in June 1994, and the project was re-structured. Project
implementation subsequently improved, and its closing date was successively extended for
30 months (through December 31, 1996) to enable full expenditure of the first tranche.
ii



9.    Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives. Project achievements
were constrained by numerous factors. First, pursuit of staff down-sizing and student fee
increases was slowed by strong negative reactions from staff and students to university
"adjustment," and by consequent government sensitivity to the possibilities of political
unrest. This reticence delayed attainment of various efficiency objectives, and impeded
any real policy of cost-recovery. Second, political concerns to safeguard regional and
institutional equity led the NUC to ease or eliminate the project's competitive incentives
for institutional reforms, thereby postponing both institutional reforms and project
implementation. Third, weak communications capacity within the far-flung university
system made articulation of the project's policy rationale difficult, and fostered many
misunderstandings and delays. Fourth, at the project level frequent project leadership
changes, limited understanding of both the Credit Agreement and the Bank's procurement
guidelines, and the initially poor integration of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
into the NUC constitute shortcomings. Fifth, the move of the NUC offices from Lagos to
Abuja before the new site was fully operational disrupted implementation. Sixth,
extended strikes by university staff in 1992 and 1996 were further obstacles.
10.   Assessment of the Borrower's and Bank's Performance. Borrower and Bank
performance was less than satisfactory in the preparation and implementation of this
project. The Borrower proposed objectives and activities which were unrealistic for the
three-year time frame, accepted but did not deliver on its commitment to adjust student
hostel fees, left the National Education Bank without a functioning Board of Trustees for
the duration of the project, unilaterally modified key aspects of the implementation
design, accepted but later challenged the Bank's intemational competitive bidding
requirements, engaged in a frequent turnover of project managers, and sometimes did not
appoint project managers with the qualifications agreed under the project. For its part,
the Bank agreed to a project design and credit amount which were beyond the capacity of
the NUC to manage fully, employed a credit instrument inappropriate for an operation of
this complexity, did not consult sufficiently during project preparation with the 20
universities targeted by the project, did not fully anticipate the pressures for increased
enrollments and numbers of universities, changed the project's task manager three times,
was slow to carry out the planned responses to identified project risks, did not adequately
spell out the macro-economic tranche release conditions associated with the project, did
not sufficiently explain the Credit Agreement and Procurement Guidelines to the
implementing agency, and failed to adhere to its own intentionally intense supervision
schedule of four visits per year.
11.   Assessment of Project's Outcome. The Federal Universities Development Sector
Adjustment Credit has produced mixed results. Project performance was largely
satisfactory in the areas of management efficiency gains, and in certain areas of educational
quality improvement. Advances were also registered in institutional budget allocations for
library development and for research, and in strengthening the NUC's technical capacities.
Modest but important progress was achieved in the introduction of strategic planning
concepts, planning for an eventual university-wide electronic network, the creation of
campus capacities for equipment maintenance, and the establishment of centralized
iii



procurement of costly equipment. Performance was unsatisfactory in project efforts to
foster financial stability and quality control within the university system. It was not able to
increase cost-recovery for student hostels, to encourage significant expansion of university
revenues from non-government sources, to contain enrollment growth within planned
parameters, to assist the emergence of the National Education Bank as a viable student loan
program, to support meaningful course accreditation, and to establish an international
advisory panel. It also failed to provide US$80 million worth of its intended benefits to the
university system. For the most part, performance was stronger in those areas under the
direct responsibility of the NUC, and weaker with regard to policy matters dependent upon
support from higher levels of government. On balance, although a majority of the project's
development objectives were achieved, the absence of any assurance concerning the
financial sustainability of these gains leaves the project outcome in doubt.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
12.   Project sustainability is uncertain. Although management efficiency within the
federal university system has improved considerably, steadfast resistance to cost-sharing
combines with continued rapid enrollment growth to place the educational quality and the
financial sustainability of the federal university system at risk. The effects of this
negative interaction include sharply inadequate student allocations for educational inputs,
and poor terms and conditions of service for university staff which have prompted several
nationwide strikes since 1992. The principal chance for sustaining the gains registered
under the project lies in generating the political will to introduce significant user fees
while consciously containing enrollment growth and the creation of new universities.
13.   Key lessons learned from the project experience are summarized below:
(a)   Adjustment credits are not effective mechanisms for promoting complex
institutional and management reforms in higher education, and perhaps not
in the health and education sectors generally.
(b)   In order to safeguard quality objectives under higher education projects,
explicit attention should be given to managing and monitoring unit costs
per student as a key indicator of educational quality.
(c)   Higher education project objectives should not only promote cost-
efficiency and effective resource allocation, but also the parallel need for
establishing mechanisms and procedures for quality assurance.
(d)   In comparison to user fees, the potential for university income generation
from entrepreneurial activities is limited; efforts to develop it may not be
cost-effective, and may undermine the main university mission of teaching
and research.
iv



(e)    Projects housed in implementing agencies with no prior experience in the
management of World Bank projects should be of limited scale and
provide extensive up-front training of project staff in Bank procurement
and disbursement procedures in order to minimize start-up delays and
procedural misunderstandings.
(f)    The large-scale procurement of scientific journals merits special attention
in the course of project preparation; their nature as proprietary goods
should be clearly recognized, subscriptions must be ordered during the
final three months of each year, and for large contracts benefiting multiple
institutions, pre-qualification of books and journals suppliers before
invitation to bid is recommended.
(g)   In projects where benefits are provided to universities on the basis of
competitive performance, special attention should be given to the
organization of procurement for these benefits so that good performance is
quickly rewarded. When each university's earned benefits are
amalgamated into large procurement packages for International
Competitive Bidding, the incentives for good performance are eliminated;
the institution which is quickest to qualify must await the last institution to
qualify in order for the procurement package to be complete and bidding
to be initiated.
(h)   The diversity of university circumstances in Nigeria (e.g., size, mission,
location, age) is too great to be encompassed by a single uniform set of
eligibility criteria.
(i)    Attention to the implementing agency's accounting capacity is essential for
good disbursement performance. The NUC accounting system was ably
organized, but seriously short-staffed. This was recognized at project appraisal,
and a provision made to add two accountants. But Bank supervision did not insist
on compliance with this provision when the hiring of qualified accountants in
Abuja proved difficult. This led to late audits and delayed payment to suppliers.
(j)    Finally, project re-structuring can be an be an effective response to a
poorly performing project.
v






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
[Cr. 2139-UNI]
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1 INTRODUCTION
A.   MACROECONOMIC SETTING
1.    The project period (1990 to 1997) witnessed numerous policy and political
changes in Nigeria which influenced the implementation context. Nigeria made a
conscious but incomplete attempt at structural adjustment during 1986-1993. By 1991,
however, slippages in fiscal discipline and public resource management led to the
withdrawal of Bank and IMF adjustment support. Large fiscal deficits were recorded,
and economic growth stagnated. GNP per capita declined from $1,180 in 1980 to $260 in
1995. Income inequality increased, and 34 percent of the population is classified as
"poor." Basic social indicators now place Nigeria among the 20 poorest countries
worldwide.
2.    In 1994 a new government chose to repress the symptoms of the mounting
economic crisis rather than to tackle its causes. But rapidly worsening economic
conditions led Government to re-assess its policies in early 1995. A new approach of
"guided deregulation" was instituted. Tight fiscal policies, a free market for foreign
exchange, and the elimination of many barriers to investment curtailed inflation and
produced a small fiscal surplus. In 1996 Government continued this process of gradual
liberalization, resulting in a small economic rebound of 3.1 percent growth.
3.    Absence of a credible restructuring of federal expenditure priorities and of
programs necessary to produce a structural fiscal balance leaves unresolved the
sustainability of the macro-stabilization program initiated in 1995. With limited
budgetary transparency and accountability (some 40 percent of federal expenditures occur
off-budget), unchanged budgetary allocation priorities in 1996, and no demonstrated
commitment to poverty alleviation or to rectifying a substantial deterioration in the
quality of essential social and infrastructural services, macro-economic stability is not
assured.



B.   BANK'S ROLE IN THE SECTOR
4.    This credit represents the Bank's first attempt to assist major university reform in
Sub-Saharan Africa. It targets the continent's largest university system. The credit was
based on a comprehensive sector study, Nigeria: Costs and Financing of Universities
(1988). It was designed in a period of rapid expansion of university enrollments and
institutions, of declining government financing for the sector caused by falling petroleum
prices, and of consequent deterioration of quality within Nigeria's previously well-
regarded university system. Although this project was followed by other Bank credits
for higher education in Africa, it remains the Bank's largest and most complex project for
the development of national tertiary education systems on the continent.
5.    Prior to this project, the Bank had a limited role in Nigeria's educational
development. Three education projects amounting to US$91.3 million were approved in
1965, 1972, and 1973. Following a fifteen-year hiatus, Bank assistance to education
sector development resumed in 1989 with a credit for Technical Education (Cr. 2926-
UNI, effective March 17, 1989, for US$ 23.3 million). Balanced support to the sector
following the Federal Universities credit was completed through subsequent investments
in Primary Education (Cr. 2191-UNI, effective March 12, 1992, for US$ 120 million);
and for Development Communications (Cr 2481 -UNI, effective July 1, 1994, for US$ 8
million). A credit for Junior Secondary Education was also prepared, appraised and
negotiated in 1994, but was withdrawn by Government just prior to Board submission.
Shortly thereafter, persistent differences between the Government and the Bank over the
country's macro-economic policies led to a cessation of lending which remains in effect.
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.   ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    The project was designed to assist the Federal Government, through the
intermediary of its parastatal, the National Universities Commission (NUC), to initiate a
major reform of the federal university system in Nigeria. Its three main objectives were:
(i) to improve the quality and relevance of university teaching and research through the
provision of educational inputs and upgrading of staff; (ii) to make institutional programs
more cost-effective and efficient through a rationalization of course offerings and a re-
structuring of expenditures; and (iii) to increase non-governmental income of universities
by raising user charges and expanding income generation activities.
B.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS
7.    The Federal Universities Development Sector Adjustment Credit of SDR 93.5
million (US$120 million equivalent) was intended to implement a first phase of the
government's university reform program, which addressed a growing crisis of quality and
2



funding within the nation's 20 federal universities. To this end, the bulk of project funds
(97%) provided academic inputs--books, journals, laboratory equipment, computers, staff
training--to boost quality in response to university compliance in meeting various efficiency
and financing goals defined in the project's eligibility criteria. Remaining funds were
shared between the National Universities Commission (for capacity building and project
management) and the newly established National Education Bank (for a feasibility study of
an expanded student loan program, and for the initial phase of a computerized management
information system).
C.    CREDIT COVENANTS AND SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
8.    Project goals were reinforced by Special Conditions for tranche releases and by
Eligibility Conditions governing each university's participation in the project. Tranche
conditions sought to stabilize funding for the sector by ensuring that government
allocations to the universities were maintained at least at the 1989 level, to augment these
amounts with increased income from fees charged to students for bed space, and to limit
the portion of recurrent budgets spent on staff salaries. Eligibility conditions sought to
foster cost-efficiency by progressively improving staff/student ratios, decreasing the
numbers of non-academic staff, eliminating non-degree and low-demand academic
programs, encouraging cost-recovery and income generation, enhancing management
information systems, and expanding equipment maintenance. It was expected that
savings and additional resources generated by these actions would be re-directed by the
universities to sustain quality gains at the close of the project.
9.    The project design recognized the autonomy of the universities by giving them the
choice of participating or not. For universities prepared to undertake painful reforms, the
project offered financing for the purchase of essential teaching and research inputs such
as books, journals, and scientific equipment. The criteria which universities had to meet
in order to benefit were drawn from the NUC's own policy guidelines and recently
established norms for budgeting and staffing. Universities had to meet six criteria in
order to receive first tranche funding, eight criteria for the second tranche, and eight
criteria for the third tranche. These criteria are summarized in tabular form below. The
project design anticipated that each participating university would receive $2 million in
goods and services for each set of criteria that it met, or US$6 million per institution.
Determination of each university's eligibility for these benefits was to be carried out in
November of each year.
10.   Although no special conditions were required for project effectiveness, 21
separate actions were expected to be undertaken by the Borrower prior to project
initiation (see Annex 2, Attachment II, Report and Recommendation of the President).
Seven of these actions addressed policy issues; the remainder were intended to ensure
that project implementation began in a timely fashion. Available documentation suggests
that, in fact, only five of these 21 actions had taken place by the date of effectiveness.
3



ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR UNIVERSITY ACCESS TO PROJECT BENEFITS
Staff                 Course               Self Financing       Increased Non-     Sub-Degree Programs    Rational Equipment     Implementation
Retrenchment           Rationalization       of Student Hostels    Govemmental Income    to be Self-Financing    Maintenance             of MIS
FIRST YEAR'S           Complete freeze on    Departments not                                                                            Prepare a plan for
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA   staff recruitment where  graduating any under-                                                                   equipment repair and
NUC staffing norms    graduates will not wun post-                                                               general maintenance
are exceeded.         graduate programs.                                                                        facilities.
One-half of excess    Any department in                                                                          Agree that 60% of all
non-academic staff    existence for 10 years with                                                               future equipment
according to NUC      an FTE of less than 40                                                                     procured will be
norms will have been    under-graduates will cease                                                               according to standard
selected for retrench-   to exist.                                                                               specifications.
ment and named.
SECOND YEAR'S          Complete freeze on    No 1 st or 2nd phase      All leases on prvately  7% of total recurrent                    Implementation of
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA   staff recruitment where  university will run a post-    owned hostels will be  revenues will be                  equipment repair plan
NUC staffing norms    graduate course with less   terminated.        raised from tuition                         and establishment of
are exceeded.         than 12 students, and no                      fees, income-                                maintenance facilities.
3rd phase with less than 6.                    generation activities,
and/or endowments.                          60% of all equipment
All excess staff accord-  All non-approved                                                                       procured will be
ing to NUC norms will   programs, departments,                                                                   according to standard
have been removed     and faculties will cease to                                                                specifications.
from the payroll.     exist or be approved.
THIRD YEAR'S           Complete freeze on    Any department existing                        10% of total recurrent   All sub-degree and  Implementation of    Details will be
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA   staff recruitment where  for 10 years but with less                  revenues will be      remedial programs at   equipment repair plan   provided of unit
NUC staffing norms    than 2/3 of the required                       raised from tuition   a university will be  and establish-ment of   costs and costs per
are exceeded.         staff will cease to exist.                    fees, income-          either self-financing or   maintenance facilities.  graduate by level,
generation activities,   removed from the                         department and
Half of excess                                                      and/or endowments.    university.            60% of equipment      faculty, calculated
academic staff by                                                                                                procured will be      according to NUC
subject according to                                                                                             according to standard   systems and
NUC norms removed                                                                                                specifications.       methodologies.
from the payroll.
4



D.   EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
11.   Project objectives were clear and highly relevant to the future development of the
higher education sub-sector, the overall education sector, and capacity building for national
economic development. But they were too ambitious for the project's three-year time
frame, and too complex for management by an untested implementation agency.
3. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.   ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S SUCCESS AND SUSTAINABILITY
12.   The project's three stated policy goals for the university system--quality, efficiency,
and financial stability--have been advanced with qualified success. Quality has been
boosted, at least for the moment, by substantial updating of library holdings and laboratory
equipment; by greater attention to budgetary allocations for libraries, equipment
maintenance, and research; by significant training of academic and administrative staff; and
by emerging attention to university strategic planning.
13.   Laudable efficiency gains were recorded among the universities. Recurrent cost per
student in real terms fell by 31 percent between 1988 and 1994 as enrollments grew at 12
percent per year, substantially surpassing the project target of a 20 percent efficiency gain.
Staffing ratios improved substantially, remedial and many non-degree programs were
phased out or else operated on a self-supporting basis, and non-academic staff were
reduced to levels largely consistent with NUC norms. Unfortunately, some of these
efficiency gains were due as much to deteriorating financial and institutional conditions
within the universities as to conscious management efforts to attain policy goals. Resultant
savings were frequently used to support larger enrollments rather than to invest in
educational quality. As a result, educational quality gains under the project may prove to be
temporary in the context of growing student numbers.
14.   Less progress was achieved in financially stabilizing the university system. On the
positive side, Government recurrent allocations to the education sector as a share of the
federal budget steadied and improved, increasing from 5 percent in 1990 to 22 percent in
1993 before falling to 16 percent in 1996. At the same time, federal recurrent funding for
universities as a share of overall recurrent funding for the federal education sector grew
from an average 40 percent in 1989/90 to an average 51 percent in 1995/96.1 The total
amounts allocated to the federal university system increased by 73 percent in real terms
between 1990 and 1994 due to the substantial growth in overall education spending. But,
by 1996 this increase in real terms since 1990 had fallen to 16 percent as high rates of
inflation in 1995-96 took their toll. Among the universities, non-governmental revenues
The federal education budget excludes primary education, which was funded as a state and local
responsibility.
5



were modestly increased through income-generation activities and user fees for non-degree
courses. Yet Government steadfastly refused to adjust its charges for student bed spaces,
which have remained unchanged for 17 years, and resisted university initiatives to introduce
other tuition-related fees. The net result has been to generate downward pressure on unit
expenditures per student, with its inevitable negative consequences for educational quality.
15.   The evidence presented above suggests that the project's performance in attaining its
three defined development objectives can be rated on balance as moderately satisfactory.
However, the overall outcome of the project must be considered as unsatisfactory. This is
because the project's ultimate goal--sustainable financing arrangements which ensure an
acceptable level of educational quality--remains in doubt. Declining expenditures per
student, growing difficulties in staff retention, and the inability of universities to
substantially expand the portion of their revenue base contributed by non-governmental
sources all point to the unsustainability of the present approach to university system
financing.
16.   As a quick-disbursing adjustment operation designed to leverage significant changes
in policies regarding university financing and efficiency, the project cannot be considered
more than a partial success. Instead of disbursing US$120 million in three years, it
expended US$44.4 million in 6.5 years.
17.   During the later years of the project, Bank staff and consultants sustained useful
dialogue with the university system on the need for reform, introduced fresh perspectives
(e.g., strategic planning) into this debate through studies and a series of consultative
meetings, and helped foster understanding of the benefits linked to these difficult changes
as well as the costs of not taking action. As a result, the policy objectives espoused by the
project are much more accepted today by the university community than they were in 1990.
Some of the actions necessary to fashion long-term sustainability for the university system
in Nigeria are now visible on the horizon, although not always in the way nor at the pace
originally foreseen by the project. The recent appointment of a Presidential Commission on
the Future of Higher Education, charged with recommending changes in the organization,
financing, and management of the tertiary system by mid- 1997, offers a significant
opportunity to politically endorse specific university reform objectives. Project
accomplishments under the various Eligibility Criteria are summarized below.
18.   Staff Retrenchment. Data from 1995 (universities were closed by a national strike in
1996) indicate that none of the participating universities presently has excess academic
staff. Only five have excess senior non-academic staff, and just two have excess junior
non-academic staff. Contrary to the situation reigning when the project began in 1990, the
system is now short of staff in most categories when compared with the NUC norms.
RATIOS               1990         1995
Academic staff/students        1:14         1:19
Non-academic staff/students    1:3.7       1:5.9
6



19.   Course Rationalization. Departments with less than 40 full-time equivalent (FTE)
undergraduate students after ten years of operation were defined as unviable and targeted for
phase-out. Currently 12 out of the 20 universities have fulfilled this aim. Most of the non-
complying departments fall in the areas of human and veterinary medicine where retaining
numbers of teaching staff sufficient to run a full program has proven nearly impossible.
Likewise, remedial programs were to be transferred to lower level institutions where such
programs could be offered at lower cost. To date, all remedial programs in the arts have been
eliminated from the universities, but some remedial programs in the sciences still remain. Bank
staff have not pushed for elimination of the latter because they contribute towards other project
objectives, namely increased science-based enrollments and non-governmental income
generation.
20.   Self-financing of Hostels. University and NUC leadership have increasingly
supported this change, realizing that hostel subsidies cannot be justified during an era of
resource scarcity. However, the upward adjustment of hostel fees has not been endorsed at
the highest levels of government. Nevertheless, universities have introduced modest de
faclo cost-sharing by requiring students to provide their own bedding. All leases of rented
hostel space have now been terminated.
21.   Increased Non-governmental Revenue. Between 1989 and 1992 universities were
able--due in part to the introduction of tuition fees for graduate study--to increase the
proportion of their recurrent budgets resulting from non-governmental revenues to 13
percent in fact surpassing the project target of 10 percent. Unfortunately, a major financial
settlement stemming from a year-long academic staff strike in 1992 sharply increased the
size of recurrent budgets. Although the amounts of non-governmental income have
remained relatively stable, their proportionate share of the (now much larger) recurrent
budget declined to 4% in 1995.
22.   Sub-degree Programs. Virtually all existing sub-degree programs have become
self-financing as envisioned by the project. In fact, they have become a major source of
non-governmental income for the universities, accounting for nearly half of such revenues.
23.   Equipment Maintenance. An important achievement of the project has been to
establish equipment maintenance centers at each university with permanently assigned staff
and a supply of spare parts and tools provided under the project. All universities prepared
annual equipment repair and maintenance plans for 1994 and 1995. Sixteen out of 20
universities submitted these plans for 1996 even though they were not formally required by
the project. Standard equipment specifications were developed by university and NUC staff
at two separate workshops and these are available on electronic files. An estimated 70
percent of broken down equipment has now been repaired and put into use. Numerous
technicians from the universities have been trained in specialized aspects of equipment
maintenance, and in the writing of technical specifications for equipment. A centralized
mechanism for the procurement of costly equipment is being established by the NUC.
7



24.   Management Information Systems. Significant progress has been made towards this
goal, but it has followed a meandering and sometimes thorny path. Since the start of the
project, all universities have computerized their payrolls, and a number have begun to
computerize student records. Other computer applications for administration are generally
in their infancy. But after several years of work, agreement was reached within the
university system at the end of 1995 on two key elements needed to put in place a
standardized Management Information System: the formula for calculating student
enrollment, and a uniform accounting system and codes. Installation of commercial
software to run this accounting system was done on all campuses in late 1996. A long-
standing NUC project to produce locally crafted software for the overall MIS also reached a
reportedly successful conclusion. This has enabled the development of new and more
rational formula for NUC budgetary allocations among universities based on the unit cost of
each credit hour delivered by an academic program.
B.    SUMMARY OF COSTS AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
25.   The total project cost was US$ 44,392,661. As an adjustment operation, this
amount was fully funded by IDA. Total disbursements of the Credit at project closure were
US$ 44,392,661.
C.   IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
26.   The credit was planned as a quick-disbursing three-year program in support of
university sector reform and national macro-economic adjustment underway at that time.
Various factors delayed significant disbursements until the project's third and final year.
Because of poor disbursement perfornance, the project's second and third tranches were
canceled in June 1994, and the project was re-structured. Project implementation then
improved markedly, and the closing date was successively extended for 30 months (through
December 31, 1996) to enable full expenditure of the first tranche.
D.   ANALYSIS OF KEY FACTORS AFFECTING MAJOR OBJECTIVES
27.   Project achievements were constrained by several factors. First, pursuit of staff
down-sizing and student fee increases was delayed by strong negative reactions by staff and
students to university "adjustment," and by consequent government sensitivity to the
possibilities of political unrest. This reticence postponed attainment of various efficiency
objectives, and impeded any meaningful policy of cost-recovery. Second, political
concerns to safeguard regional and institutional equity led the NUC to ease or eliminate the
project's competitive incentives for institutional reforms, thereby postponing both
institutional reforms and project implementation. Third, weak communications capacity
within the far-flung university system made articulation of the project's policy rationale
difficult, and fostered many misunderstandings and delays. While the first problem was
correctly foreseen at project appraisal, the second two were not.
8



28.   With hindsight, these constraints could have been better anticipated and addressed
through a more extensive process of university consultation and public education during the
early stages of project preparation. This has now become recognized as "best practice" in the
Bank's preparation of tertiary education reform projects. Also, casting the credit as an
investment rather than adjustment operation would have allowed sufficient time for this
process of consultation and consensus-building around the project's objectives to take place.
29.   At the project level, frequent project leadership changes (four in all), limited
understanding of both the Credit Agreement and the Bank's procurement guidelines, and
the initially poor integration of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) into the NUC
constitute shortcomings which are now well recognized and anticipated in the design of
Bank projects. Another impediment was the move of the NUC offices from Lagos to Abuja
before the new site was fully operational, which interrupted project coordination and
monitoring for the better part of a year. Extended strikes by university staff in 1992 and
1996 also constituted significant obstacles.
E.    ASSESSMENT OF THE BORROWER'S AND THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
30.   The performance of both the Borrower and the Bank was less than satisfactory in the
preparation and implementation of this project. The Borrower proposed objectives and
activities which were unrealistic for the three-year time frame, accepted but did not deliver
on its commitment to adjust student hostel fees, left the National Education Bank without a
functioning Board of Trustees for the duration of the project, unilaterally modified key
aspects of the implementation design, accepted but later challenged the Bank's international
competitive bidding requirements, engaged in a frequent turnover of project managers, and
sometimes did not appoint project managers with qualifications agreed under the project.
31.   For its part, the Bank agreed to a project design and credit amount which were
beyond the capacity of the NUC to manage fully, employed a credit instrument (adjustment)
inappropriate for an operation of this complexity, did not consult sufficiently during project
preparation with the 20 autonomous universities targeted by the project, did not fully
anticipate the pressures for increased enrollments and numbers of universities, changed the
project's task manager three times, was slow to carry out the planned responses to identified
project risks, did not adequately spell out the macro-economic tranche release conditions
associated with the project, did not sufficiently explain the Credit Agreement and
Procurement Guidelines to the implementing agency, and failed to adhere to its own
intentionally intense supervision schedule of four visits per year (see Annex 2, Report and
Recommendation of the President).
F.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S OUTCOME
32.   The Federal Universities Development Sector Adjustment Credit has produced
mixed results. It can be classified as satisfactory in the areas of management efficiency
gains (see para. 18 and 19 above), and in certain areas of educational quality improvement,
9



where project funds were able to offset a severe shortage of foreign exchange within the
university system and provide critical educational inputs which had been unavailable for a
decade. Notable improvements were registered in institutional budget allocations for
library development and for research, and in strengthening the NUC's technical capacities.
Modest but important gains were also achieved in the introduction of strategic planning
concepts, planning for an eventual university-wide electronic network, and the creation of
campus capacities for equipment maintenance.
33.   Project performance was unsatisfactory in its efforts to foster financial stability and
quality control within the university system. It was not able: (i) to increase cost-recovery
for student hostels, (ii) to encourage significant expansion of university revenues from non-
government sources, (iii) to contain enrollment growth within planned parameters, (iv) to
assist the emergence of the National Education Bank as a viable student loan program, (v)
to support meaningful course accreditation, and (vi) to establish an international advisory
panel. It also failed to provide US$80 million of intended benefits to the university system.
For the most part, performance was stronger in those areas under the direct responsibility of
the NUC, and weaker with regard to policy matters dependent upon support from higher
levels of government.
34.   In quantitative terms, the project delivered 214,233 books, 12,337 scientific journal
subscriptions, and 8,533 pieces of scientific equipment to the 20 universities. Staff
development and training activities benefited 45 NUC staff and 350 university staff (14
percent women, 24 percent non-academic staff)--4 1 of whom have failed to return from
overseas. But without concerted policy approaches to system financing and growth
management, these accomplishments are vulnerable to retrogression.
35.   On balance, although a majority of the project's development objectives were
achieved, the absence of any assurance concerning the financial sustainability of these gains
leaves the project's outcome in doubt.
4. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS
AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
A.   IMPORTANT FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
36.   Project experience has been extensively assessed. An NUC commissioned project
evaluation, Federal Universities Development Sector Adjustment Credit Operation Experience.
A Formative Evaluation Report, was carried out in August 1994 by a team of consultants
drawn from Nigerian universities. Based on visits to 12 out of 20 universities, the report
focused on project processes of policy, participation, management, and communication. In
November 1994, a World Bank consultant from Nigeria assessed the project in a report
10



Lessons Learned from the World Bank Federal Universities Development Project. In July
1995, the NUC conducted a beneficiary survey based on a sample of 176 university staff and
students from participating universities.
37.   These assessments coincide on several points. First, the main project inputs--books,
journals, laboratory equipment--constituted much appreciated quality-enhancing injections to a
system which had become steadily starved for these items during the previous decade. Second,
the Eligibility Criteria, although contentious, caused the universities to look critically at
management issues such as staffing and financing, and laid the basis for efficiency-enhancing
reforms. Third, earlier and more frequent communication with the universities by the NUC and
the Bank would have increased understanding of project objectives and design, thereby
generating a stronger commitment to the reform agenda and facilitating project management.
Fourth, the Bank's procurement guidelines were poorly understood and viewed as
administratively burdensome. Systematic procurement training for project staff, especially those
from the universities, would have allayed procedural delays and speeded implementation.
38.   The benefits to be gained from fostering awareness of the Bank's procurement
procedures among senior policymakers and institutional managers are attested by an
unfortunate experience. The lowest evaluated bidder for a multi-million dollar contract to
supply books to the universities was a large and experienced international firm. Under
Nigerian procurement procedures, contracts of this size require the approval of a high level
governmental committee. The committee refused to confirm these contracts, arguing that
Nigerian firms should share in a portion of this business. The resulting impasse lasted for
over a year, generated enormous political pressures on the Bank, and threatened to cause
cancellation of the project. A compromise solution was eventually negotiated which
allowed several other firms (including one Nigerian company) to participate in the supply
of these publications. While the Bank demonstrated the flexibility necessary to get the
project moving, it was perceived in some spheres of government to have wavered from its
procurement guidelines in response to these pressures. This precedent may have
contributed to similar problems under this project. Notably, the contract with the Nigerian
supplier was later terminated by Government as the result of non-performance. These
problems might well have been avoided if the Bank's dialogue with senior government
officials associated with the project had included the principal tenets of Bank procurement
in addition to policy matters.
39.   From an implementation standpoint, the large lots of procurement associated with a
quick-disbursing adjustment operation were at odds with a project design that stressed
individual institution's access to project benefits based on each university's achievements in
meeting the project's eligibility criteria. This prevented strong university performers from
receiving immediate rewards, and gradually diluted the reform agenda inherent in the
eligibility criteria as large system-wide procurement processes moved ahead.
40.   Project experience demonstrates that re-structuring can have a very positive impact on
initially poor performance. From 1990-93, Form 590 ratings for the project's Development
Objectives and Implementation Performance averaged 2.4 and 3.2 respectively, while
11



disbursements averaged US$2.3 million per year. Following re-structuring in early 1994, the
DO ratings were consistently 2.0, the IP ratings also averaged 2.0, and disbursements
increased to US$11.6 million per year. Responding to identified problems, the NUC worked
to improve its communications with the universities. It published a quarterly newsletter
entitled WB Project News, held semi-annual coordination meetings with university
representatives, supplied fax machines to universities, and strengthened the Project
Implementation Committees on each university campus.
B.    FUTURE OPERATIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY
41.   The government's university reform program has been unevenly pursued and its
impact has so far been limited. Continued rapid expansion of the university system--there
are now 25 federal universities and some 250,000 students--and the lack of progress in
diversifying its financial base have combined to further erode the quality of university
education during the project period. As it now stands, much of the university system is
incapable of reproducing itself at any acceptable level of quality over the coming decade.
In this context, the project's varying achievements may prove to be short-lived.
42.   When the project was re-structured in 1994 and two-thirds of the credit amount was
canceled, the Borrower requested that this amount be re-programmed as a follow-up
universities investment project in continuing support of its tertiary reform program. Activities
to this end were initiated, various studies were undertaken, and a first draft project proposal
was submitted to the Bank in September 1995. Although the Joint Universities and NUC
Proposal Drafting Committee has continued to develop its proposal, the current suspension of
borrowing by Nigeria has forced a halt to project preparation activities.
43.   If and when this universities investment project moves ahead, it could profitably
give attention to the following aspects of the reform agenda: university strategic planning,
strengthening of key system capacities for graduate training, accreditation, research
management within the system, and electronic networking for scientific and administrative
purposes.
C.    LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE SECTOR
44.   Higher education projects are unusual in that their beneficiary institutions--the
universities--are generally stronger, better endowed, and more capable than other public
institutions. In addition, they possess an organized and influential constituency of staff,
students, and alumni which can act as powerful interest groups. Broad consultation in the
process of project preparation is thus essential, and project performance can often be
enhanced through the decentralization of certain implementation responsibilities.
45.   Specific lessons can be drawn from the six-year experience of this project which
offer instructive guidance to future higher education projects, particularly in Africa:
12



(a)    Adjustment credits are not effective mechanisms for promoting complex
institutional and management reforms in higher education, and perhaps not in the
health and education sectors generally.
(b)   In order to safeguard quality objectives under higher education projects, explicit
attention should be given to managing and monitoring unit costs per student as a key
indicator of educational quality.
(c)    Higher education project objectives should not only promote cost-efficiency and
effective resource allocation, but also the parallel need for establishing mechanisms
and procedures for quality assurance.
(d)    When compared with user fees, the potential for university income generation from
entrepreneurial activities is limited; efforts to develop it may not be cost-effective, and
may undermine the main university mission of teaching and research.
(e)    Projects housed in implementing agencies with no prior experience in the management
of World Bank projects should be of limited scale and provide extensive up-front
training of project staff in Bank procurement and disbursement procedures.
(f)    The large-scale procurement of scientific journals merits special attention in the course
of project preparation: their nature as proprietary goods should be clearly recognized,
subscriptions must be ordered during the final three months of each year, and for large
contracts benefiting multiple institutions, pre-qualification of books and journals
suppliers before invitation to bid is advisab!e.
(g)   In projects where benefits are provided to universities on the basis of competitive
performance, special attention should be given to the organization of procurement for
these benefits so that good performance is quickly rewarded. When each university's
earned benefits are amalgamated into large procurement packages for International
Competitive Bidding, the incentives for good performance are eliminated; the
institution which is quickest to qualify must await the last institution to qualify in order
for the procurement package to be complete and bidding to be initiated.
(g)   The diversity of university circumstances in Nigeria (e.g., size, mission, location,
age) is too great to be encompassed by a single uniform set of eligibility criteria.
(h)   Attention to the implementing agency's accounting capacity is essential for good
disbursement performance. This was recognized at project appraisal, and a provision made
to add two accountants. But Bank supervision did not insist on compliance with this
provision when the hiring of qualified accountants in Abuja proved difficult. This led to
late audits and payment delays to suppliers.
(i)    Finally, project re-structuring can be an be an effective response to a poorly
performing project.
13



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Tranche Release
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:    Project Costs
Table 713:    Project Financing
Table 8:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Missions
14



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                                           El
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                 E3
Institutional Development           ni                                ni                 lii
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction
Gender Issues                       L                ii               iii
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives            I                i                iii
Public Sector Management
Private Sector Development          U
Other (specify)                      i               j                III
B. Project Sustainabilitv               Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                                                I                          III
Preparation Assistance              [                           I                        l3
Appraisal                                                     E U
Supervision                            ]                      iii
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                  Satisfactory         Satisfactory                 Deficient
Identification                       I3                                                   Eli
Preparation Assistance               U                                                    U
Appraisal                                                     E]
Supervision                                                                              U]
Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome                 Satisfactory         Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory
15



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit                     Purpose              Year of approval      Status
Following operations
Cr. 25170                 Lagos Drainage & San                1993            Ongoing
Cr. 24850                 State Roads 11                      1993            Ongoing
Cr. 24810                 Development Communication           1993            Ongoing
Cr. 24310                 Economic Management                  1993           Ongoing
Cr. 24150                 State Roads                          1993           Ongoing
Cr. 23720                 State Water 1                        1992           Ongoing
Cr. 23530                 Environmental Manage                 1992           Ongoing
Cr. 22610                 Agricultural Research               1991            Ongoing
Cr. 22380                 Population                          1991            Ongoing
Cr. 21910                 Primary Education                    1991           Ongoing
Table 3: Project Timetable
1           1        ~~~~~~~Date actual!
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned           latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  February 04, 1988     December 13, 1987
Preparation                                                          April 08, 1988
Appraisal                                                              July 1989
Negotiations                                                       December 11, 1989
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                         April 30,1990
Board presentation                                                   May 24, 1990
Signing                                                              July 18, 1990
Effectiveness                                                      October 12, 1990
First tranche release                                               October 12, 1990
Second tranche release                    September 30, 1991           Canceled
Third tranche release                     September 30, 1992           Canceled
Project completion                           June 30, 1994         December 31, 1996
Credit closing                              October 30, 1994         April 30, 1997
16



Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY 1991   FY1992    FY1993           FY1994           FY1995    FY1996          FY1997
Appraisal estimate       12.00       44.00       76.00        108.00           120.00
Actual                   -0-          7.00        7.00         11.91            24.26       40.75       44.39
Actual as % of            0%         16%          9%           11%              20%         34%         36%
estimate
Date of final                                                                                        May 22,
disbursement                                                                                          1997
Table 5: Key Indicators for Tranche Releases
SUBJECT                                       PROGRAM                                  ACHIEVEMENTS
First Tranche
First Tranche Release    At Effectiveness.                                                   Release: October
Conditions                                                                                   12, 1990
Second Tranche Release   1. Universities with at least 50% of total system undergraduates enrollments  Second Tranche
Conditions               in Federal Universities will have met the first year's eligibility criteria, while  Release: Canceled
universities with 35% of such enrollments will have met the second year's
eligibility criteria;
2. Confirmation that FME's share of the 1991 Federal budget is maintained
at least at its 1989 level;
3. The lodging fee for students in hostels on Federal university campuses
has been increased to at least Naira 180 per bed-space per session for
1990/91 academic year;
Third Tranche Release    I. Universities with at least 50% of total system undergraduate enrollments   Third Tranche
Conditions               in Federal universities will have met the second year's eligibility criteria,  Release: Canceled
while universities with 35% of such enrollments will have met the third
year's eligibility criteria;
2. the accreditation exercise in all the Federal universities will have been
completed, the accreditation status of all programs publicized, and the
universities informed of time-bound remedial action they will have to take
on all programs that have not met the criteria;
3. During the 1991/92 academic year all Federal universities shall have
achieved NUC guidelines with respect to the maximum proportion of the
block recurrent grants that may be spent on personnel emoluments;
4. Confirmation that the FME's share of the 1992 Federal budget is
maintained at least at its 1989 level;
5. The first of the periodic reviews of the lodging fees will have been
completed.
17



Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at
Study               appraisal/redefined       Status       Impact of study
1. NEB feasibility      To establish NEB              complete         moderate
2. Financing             To update trends in costs,   complete         moderate
financing, and budgeting.
3. Brain Drain           To document situation and    complete         negligible
identify causes.
4. Evaluation            To assess project            complete         moderate
experience- in preparation
for new project.
5. Management and       To assess effectiveness of    complete         moderate
Governance            current governance and
management methods.
6. E-Mail Feasibility    To appraise university       complete        significant
interest and capacity to
initiate an e-mail network.
7. Strategic Planning   To determine the extent of    complete        significant
understanding of strategic
planning and propose an
initial program.
8. Equipment Maint.     To document achievement       complete         moderate
and recommend next actions
needed.
9. Labor Market          To canvass employer views    complete       undetermined
of the skills and preparation
received by university
graduates.
18



Table 7A: Project Costs
(Category) Item            Appraisal estimate (SDR)    Actual/latest estimate (SDR)
(1) Books, Journals, & Equipment           90,790,000                    28,826,000
(2-A) Consultants                           1,210,000                       781,000
(2-B) Vehicles & Equipment                  1,000,000                       372,000
(2-C) Operational Costs                       500,000                       285,000
(Reserve) Reserve for Category                                                   0
(SA-A) Special Account                                                           0
TOTAL                          93,500,000                    30,264,000
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (SDR)        Actual/latest estimate (SDR)
Source
IBRD/IDA                         93,500,000                      30,263,741.30
TOTAL                            93,500,000                      30,263,741.30
19



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                           COVENANT                           C = In Comp.          COMMENTS                  ACTION
CREDIT/LOAN                                                                  NC = Not in                                  TAKEN OR
AGREEMENT                                                                   Compliance.                                   REQUIRED
CP = Comp.
with Part.
NYD = Not
yet due
2.02 (b)               The Borrower shall, for the purpose of the Program, open and  C        Special account is held with the
maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank on          United Bank for Africa. The
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits         Special Account has been
into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in        largely recovered in preparation
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this                  for closing.
Agreement.
2.03                   The closing date shall be June 30, 1994, or such later date as  C      The closing date was extended
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly        to December 31, 1996 at the
notify the Borrower of such later date.                               advice of LOAAF to cover 1996
journals shipments.
3.01 (a)               The Borrower and the Association shall annually exchange      C        See Agreed Action Plan of
views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program             March 1995.
and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.                                                          l
3.01 (b)               Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall      C        Substantial compliance.
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.02                   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement  C        None
of the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
20



STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                               COVENANT                              C =In Comp.             COMMENTS                   ACTION
CREDIT/LOAN                                                                        NC = Not in                                      TAKEN OR
AGREEMENT                                                                         Compliance.                                       REQUIRED
CP = Comp.
with Part.
NYD = Not
yet due
3.03                     In order to enable NUC and SLB to discharge their                  C         Done for NUC (major
responsibilities under the Program. the Borrower shall                      component), but not for SLB (a
strengthen the operations of NI IC and SlB hy providing                     minor component).
- adequate staff to assist their Executive Secretaries.        _       _         _        __         .il
3.04 (a)                                              c-The BOITOer shall maintain or cause to be maintained records  on rexiexx otfinancial
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with                         records in November 1996
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the                     i suggests that accounting
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.                    continues to be well organized
and documented. Accounting is
now computerized-
r3  0.,,                                                                                 __    .._ ___;
3~ ~04hb)               The Borrower shall: (il have the records and accounts referred     C         None
in paragraph (a) of this Section incltuding those for the Special
Account for each fiscal vear audited. in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied bv
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.                        (  .       ad  w   r
It,  (firnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any  C     tThe 1995 audit was received on
case not later than six months after the end of each such vear. a          X November 22. 1996
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors of             l
such detail as the Association shall have reasonablv requested_
3.04 (b)                 (iii) furnish to the Association such other information            C        None
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
3.04 (c)                For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from        C         None.
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statement of
expenditure, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures.



STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                           COVENANT                           C = In Comp.          COMMENTS                  ACTION
CREDIT/LOAN                                                                  NC = Not in                                  TAKEN OR
AGREEMENT                                                                   Compliance.                                   REQUIRED
CP = Comp.
with Part.
NYD = Not
yet due
3.04 (c)              (i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with      C        None.
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
3.04 (c)              (ii) retain until at least one year after the Association has  NYD     Not yet due.
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;                                                                            l
3.04 (c)              (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such  C       Examined in November 1996.
records; and
3.04 (c)              (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the  C      None.
annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation. can be relied
upon to support the withdraw.
4                      Confirmation that FME's share of the 1992 Federal Budget               Off-budget expenditures make
shall be maintained at least at its 1989 level.                       this calculation difficult, but it
appears true
5                      The first of the periodic reviews of the lodging fee mentioned  NC     President's office has been
in Part A.3 above shall have been completed.                          unwilling to consider lodging
fees, although Vice Chancellors
support them.
I (a) (i)             (i) the Univ. shall have completed a freeze on recruitment of  C       Staff / student ratios have
all categories of staff where NUC staffing guidelines are             improved from 1:14 in 1988 to
exceeded.                                                              1:19 in 1995.
22



STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                           COVENANT                            C = In Comp.          COMMENTS                  ACTION
CREDIT/LOAN                                                                  NC = Not in                                    TAKEN OR
AGREEMENT                                                                    Compliance.                                   REQUIRED
CP= Comp.
with Part.
NYD = Not
_______________________                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~yet due
I (a) (ii)             the Univ. shall have selected and named for staff reduction,  C        Substantially completed.
one half of excess non-academic staff, according to NUC
guidelines
I (b) (i)             (i) any department in the Univ. that has not yet graduated any  C       None.
l____________________  undergraduate student shall not run postgraduate programs.
I (b) (ii)             Any department in the Univ. that has been in existence for    C        None.
more than 10 years, but has less than 40 full time equivalent
Undergraduate students is being phased out.
I (c) (i)              Equipment Maintenance and Procurement: (i) preparation by     C         15 universities submitted these
the Univ. of a detailed plan showing how and when out-of-              plans for 1996.
order equipment will be repaired, and what general
maintenance facilities will be established.
I (c) (ii)             60% of all equipment procurement by the Univ. from any        C        Done through project
source of funds, shall be in accordance with standard                  procurement and related
specifications and from approved manufacturers.                        training.
2 (a)                  (a) Staff Reduction: (1) the Univ. shall have completed a freeze  C     Overall staff/student ratios have
on recruitment for all categories of staff, where NUC staffing         risen from 1:14 to 1:19 over the
guidelines are exceeded.                                               life of the project.
2 (b) (ii)             The University shall have closed down, or obtained approval   C         Substantial compliance.
of all non approved programs, departments or faculties.
2 (c)                 lease of Privately-Owned Hostels: All leases on privately-     C         All 20 universities have
owned hostels have been terminated by the Univ..                       complied.
23



STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                             COVENANT                            C = In Comp.           COMMENTS                   ACTION
CREDIT/LOAN                                                                     NC = Not in                                    TAKEN OR
AGREEMENT                                                                      Compliance.                                    REQUIRED
CP = Comp.
with Part.
NYD = Not
I _____________________                                                               yet  due
2 (d)                   The Univ. has raised 7% of its total recurrent revenues from a  CP       Many universities would have
combination of tuition fees, profits from businesses,                    made this percentage goal if it
consultancy services and re-venue from endowments.                       had not been for a sizable
increase in their recurrent
budgets during 1993 and 1994 as
a result of a significant salary
settlement following a prolonged
staff strike in 1992.
2 (e)                  (i) the Univ. has implemented the plan referred to in para. I (c)  C      None
(i) above to repair maintenance facilities.
2 (e) (ii)              60% of all equipment procured by the Univ. from any source      C        See above
of funds shall be in accordance with standard specifications
and from approved manufacturers.
3 (d)                   (i) remedial programs in the arts in the universities shall have  CP     None
been phased out.
3 (d) (ii)             sub-degree programs that are being offered in other tertiary    CP        This is a major income earner
institutions shall have been phased out from the Univ. except            which conflicts with para. 2(d)
in exceptional cases.                                                    above.
3 (d) (iii)            tuition fees for both remedial and other sub- degree programs    C        Has become an important source
shall have been increased towards a direction of greater cost            of income generation.
L ____________________  recovery.
3 (e)                  Equipment maintenance and procurement; (i) the Univ. shall       C        Equipment maintenance centers
have implemented the plan referred to in para. I (c) (i) above           now established and staffed.
to repair maintenance facilities.
3 (e) (ii)              60% of all equipment procured by the Univ. from any sources     C        See above.
of funds shall be in accordance with standard specifications
and from approved manufacturers.
24



STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                             COVENANT                            C = In Comp.           COMMENTS                   ACTION
CREDIT/LOAN                                                                     NC = Not in                                    TAKEN OR
AGREEMENT                                                                      Compliance.                                    REQUIRED
CP = Comp.
with Part.
NYD = Not
yet due
3 (f)                   The Univ. shall have provided to the NUC details of unit costs  C        Uniform accounting code
and costs per graduate per level, department and faculty,                adopted in March 1996 and
calculated according to the systems and methodologies                    initial unit cost estimates
proposed by the NUC.                                                     undertaken.
25



Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                  Planned                      Actual
Project Cycle
Staff         US$          Staff          US$
Weeks                      Weeks
('000)                     ('000)
Preparation to appraisal   Not Available  Not Available  12.1          17.9
Appraisal                 Not Available  Not Available   60.4          98.2
Negotiation through       Not Available  Not Available   23.1          14.7
Board approval
Supervision                  36.0          57.1         135.9         265.5
Completion                   17.9          43.3          4.3           13.0
TOTAL                       53.9         100.4         235.8         409.3
26



Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of         Month/    Number    Days            Specialized      Implemen.       Develop.       Types of
project cycle        year         of         in        staff skills       Status        objectives     problems
i_____________________              persons      Field     represented
Not
Through appraisal       available
Not
Appraisal through       available
Board
Not
Board through           available
effectiveness
Supervision               8/90         2          6        Ed. Planner           2               i
Ind. Engineer
10/90        1          2        Sr. Ed. Plan.         *               *
5/91         1          5        Sr. Ed. Plan.         4              2
8/91         1          2        Sr Ed. Plan.                         *
4/92         2          4        Sr. Ed. Plan.         *               *
Proj. Officer
10/92        2          1 I      Sr. Ed. Plan.         *               *
Sr. Ed. Spec.
2/93         2          5        Edu. Special.         3              3
PIro.l. Officer
11/93        4          12       Sr. Ed. Plan.         *               *
Sr. Ed. Spec.
Sr. Ed. Spec.
Proj. Officer
3/94         6          12       Proc. Officer         2              2
Proc. Spec.
Edu. Spec.
Sr. Ed. Plan.
Educ. Spec.
Proqj. Officer
3/95         3         20       Sr. Dis. Of fic.       2              2
Sr. Educ. Spec.
IProj. Officer
7/95         2          5       Sr. Educ. Spec.        *              *
Proj. Officer
9/95         3                  Sr. Educ. Spec.        S              S
Ed. Op. ()ff.
Economist
6/96         1                  Sr. Educ. Spec.        2              2
Completion               12/96         1                  Sr. Educ. Spec.        2              2
* Indicates supervision undertaken in the field, for which no ratings are available.
27






Aide Memoire
FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2139-UNI)
World Bank Completion Mission
November 15-23, 1996
Introduction
A completion mission to the Nigeria Federal Universities Development Sector
Adjustment Credit was undertaken from November 15-23. 1996 by William Saint (Senior
Education Specialist and task manager). Mr. Bayo Awosemusi, procurement specialist from the
Resident Mission, participated in a portion of the work. The mission sought opinions on the
overall achievements and shortcomings of the project, updated disbursement projections,
reviewed the timetable for closing, and discussed the Project Completion Report prepared by the
National Universities Commission (NUC). The project continues to progress well, and no
serious problems were encountered.
The mission met in Abuja with Prof. Munzali Jibril. the newly appointed Executive
Secretary of the National Universities Commission, Prof. Salihu Mustafa, the PIU Chairman,
Mrs. M. A. Adebowale, the Director of Finance and Supplies, and staff responsible for various
aspects of procurement, monitoring, and accounting for the project. Discussions were also held
with the Vice-Chancellors and Sole Administrators of five federal universities, and with
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the National Education Bank, and the British Council.
The mission wishes to express its appreciation lo Prof. Jibril for his guidance and
support in the mission's discussions.  Recognition is also due to Prof. Mustafa for his timely
completion of the Project Completion Report. and to his PILU colleagues for the many useful
reference materials they prepared.
Project Overview
Project experience has been extensively assessed.  An NUC commissioned project
evaluation, Federal Universities Developnment Sector Adjustment Credit Operation Experience:
A Formative Evaluation Report, was carried out in August 1994 by a team of consultants drawn
from Nigerian universities. Based on visits to 12 out of 20 universities, the report focused on
project processes of policy, participation, management, and communication. In November 1994,
a World Bank consultant from Nigeria evaluated the project in a report Lessons Learnedfrom
the World Bank Federal Universities Development Project.. Then in July 1995, the NUC
conducted a beneficiary survey based on a sample of 176 university staff and students from
participating universities.



Completion Aide Memoire                   - 2 -                          December 9, 1996
These assessments coincide on several points. First, the main project inputs--books,
journals, laboratory equipment--constituted much needed quality-enhancing injections to a
system which had become steadily starved for these items during the previous decade. Second,
the Eligibility Criteria, although contentious, caused the universities to look critically at
management issues such as staffing and financinig, and laid the basis for notable efficiency gains.
Third, earlier and more frequent communication with the universities by the NUC and the Bank
would have increased understaniding of project objectives and design, thereby generating a
stronger commitmienit to the reform agenda and facilitating project management. Fourth, the
Bank's procurement guidelines were poorly understood  and viewed as administratively
burdensome.  Systematic procurement training for project staff, especially those from  the
universities, would have allayed procedural difficulties and accelerated implementation. Fuller
discussion of these and other points will be containied in the lmplementation Completion Report
which the Bank will prepare in early 1997.
The general opinion of those met during the mission was that the project has provided
numerous direct and indirect benefits to the universities and the NUC.  Books, journals,
equipment, and staff development have boosted staff morale, improved teaching, and given a
new impetus to research. The four Federal Universities of Technology, with younger staff and a
strong emphasis on engineering, especially profited from the equipment and staff training
components.    Various  universities  mentioned  improved  institutional capabilities  for
computerized library cataloguing, professional management, and equipment maintenance.
Increased professional capacities at the NUC were also noted. Indirect benefits include greater
computer literacy within the university system, development of a uniform management
information system, improved budgetary allocation procedures, appreciation of equipment
specification and procurement procedures, an electronic networking initiative called NUNet, and
the introduction of strategic planning concepts. Significant efficiency gains within the university
system were widely recognized.
In spite of the project's recognized contributions., only a few were prepared to argue that
the university system is better off In 1996 than it was when the project began in 1990.
Inadequate financing arrangements are commonly seen to be the root cause of most problems--
from university staff strikes and brain drain to "half-baked" graduates and loss of international
recognition. On this basis, some observers questioned the longer term sustainability of the
project's accomplishments.
An encouraging postscript to the story of this project remains possible. A high-level
"Committee on the Future of Higher Education in Nigeria" was established by the Head of State
at the end of October. Its mandate is to review the chronically unsettled university system and to
present recommendations by the end of the year on a wide range of issues including enrollment
growth, system rationalization, governance, financing (including student fees), and privatization.
Many in the university community feel that the Committee's report will offer the current
government a basis for public confirmation of various elements of the NUC's reform program
that were laid out in 1990 and encapsulated within the eligibility criteria and tranche release
conditions of the current project.
To assist the Committee's efforts, the mission suggests that the NUC share with it
appropriate project reports--including those on financing, the labor market for university
graduates, governance and management, strategic planning, brain drain, student loans, equipment



Completion Aide Memoire                     - 3 -                           December 9, 1996
maintenance, and electronic networking feasibility--as well as the recent proposal for a Federal
Universities Investment Project developed by the NUC and the universities.
Lessons Learned
Higher education projects are unusual in that their beneficiary institutions--the
universities--are generally stronger, better endowed, and more capable than other public
institutions. In addition, they possess an organized and influential constituency of staff, students,
and alumni which can act as a powerful interest group. Broad consultation in the process of
project preparation is thus essential, and project performance can often be enhanced through the
decentralization of certain implementation responsibilities.
Specific lessons can be drawn from the six-year experience of this project which offer
instructive guidance to future higher education projects, particularly in Africa:
(a)    The need to pay explicit attention to enrollments control, perhaps
through agreements on growth rates, intake numbers, and/or unit
costs per student, in order to safeguard quality objectives.
(b)    Project objectives should not only promote cost-efficiency and effective
resource allocation, but also the parallel need for quality assurance.
(c)    The potential for university income generation from non-governmental
sources, with the exception of student fees, is limited and efforts to develop
it may not be cost-effective.
(d)    The diversity of university circumstances (e.g., size, mission, location, age)
is too great to be encompassed by a single uniform set of eligibility criteria.
(e)    Projects housed in implementing agencies with no prior experience in the
management of World Bank projects should be of limited scale and provide
extensive up-front training of project staff in Bdnk procurement and
disbursement procedures.
(f)    The large scale procurement of scientific journals is not an activity which
lends itself readily to the use of World Bank procurement guidelines; it
therefore merits special attention in the course of project preparation.
(g)    For large contracts benefiting multiple institutions, pre-qualification of
books and journals suppliers before invitation to bid is advisable.
(h)    Attention to the implementing agency's accounting capacity is essential for
good disbursement performance. This was recognized at project appraisal,
and a provision made to add two accountants. But Bank supervision did not
insist on compliance with this provision when the hiring of qualified accountants
in Abuja proved difficult. This led to late audits and payment delays to suppliers.
(i)    Finally, project re-structuring can be an be an effective response to a poorly
performing project.



Completion Aide Memoire                 - 4 -                         December 9, 1996
Disbursement Status
Project disbursements have totaled $1.1 million since the last supervision visit in June
1996. As of November 26, 1996, the Bank's Loan Status Report shows an undisbursed balance
under the project of $4.1 million. Most of this amount is committed to final payments to
suppliers. Several withdrawal applications are currently in the pipeline. Original copies of
signed contracts should be sent to the Bank in advance of payment requests to new suppliers.
The mission reviewed disbursement projections, and the NtJC's financial closing plan
appears in Attachment 1. Nearly all of the funds allocated for the project's main components--
books, journals, staff development, and project-related costs of the NUC/PIU--have been spent.
Some $1.6 million in final payments to equipment suppliers will be made over the next four
imonths.  The current status of payment commitments under the project is summarized in
Attachment 2. The mission reviewed and approved a request by the NUC to reallocate $15.415
(SDR 10.731) from Category I to Category 2a of the Credit Agreement in order to cover
projected deficits totaling this amount.
An uncommitted balance of SDR 539,125 is currently estimated (i.e., 1.7% of the
revised credit amount), which will be reserved to guard against possible exchange fluctuations
which might increase the value of pending payments over the coming six months.
Procurement Status
Equipment deliveries are virtually complete. Only two small contracts have not yet been
shipped (Mekins and Cussons), and the NUC has sent letters to these agents warning them to
ship before December 3 1, 1996. Suppliers are well advanced in equipment installation and
training, and three have already received their final payments. Most of the remaining cases
depend on the submission of completion certificates by the universities to the NUC. Verification
of the receipt and installation of equipment by the universities is taking longer than expected in
several cases, in part due to a nationwide strike by university staff during much of this year.
Some suppliers have expressed concern with consequent payment delays.
Project Completion Report
A comprehensive and thoughtful Project Completion Report prepared by the Borrower
was given to the mission on November 22.
Audits
The 1995 audit was handed to the mission on November 22, 1996. The mission
explained to the NUC that project fi'nds could not be used to pay for the 1996 audit, since this
exercise will only occur after the project closing date, but that the NUC's obligation to audit the
final year of project activities remains. The mission was informed that preliminary agreement on
contract renewal with the auditing firm of Akintola Williams has already been reached, and that
the NUC would ensure that the 1996 audit is undertaken with its own funds and forwarded to the
Bank before June 30, 1997.



Completion Aide Memoire                 - 5 -                        December 9, 1996
Financial Management
The Special Account shows a balance of $6,678.04 according to the August 30, 1996
statement from the United Bank of Africa--the most recent statement received. A duplicate
payment of Naira 2,788,508.97 made to the NUC by the Bank during 1995 was discovered by
the NUC in September and reported to the Bank. The NUC's Director of Finance confirmed to
the mission that this sum was to be reimbursed to tile Bank at the end of November.
Operational Plan
As an adjustment operation, no operational plan is required for this project.
Timetable of Key Actions
A timetable of key actions related to project completioni and closing was discussed and
recorded in Attachment 3.
Appreciation
The Task Manager would like to recognize the commitment, professionalism, and hard
work demonstrated by the numerous NUC staff involved with this project in the face of
considerable adversity. Among the obstacles to project implementation that were beyond the
control of the NUC staff were: the move of NUC offices from Lagos to Abuja in 1992, year-
long national strikes by university staff which closed campuses in 1992 and 1996, severe
shortages of petrol in 1994 and 1995, two changes of government, the creation of five new
federal universities, periodic power and telecommunications interruptions, growing insecurity on
the nation's highways, a partial failure of the national banking system in 1995, and several
periods of considerable political tension.
Washington, D.C., December 9, 1996
William Saint
Sr. Education Specialist
Human Development 3
Africa Region



Completion Aide Memoire                 - 6 -                         December 9, 1996
Attachment I
Project Disbursement Summary
(AS OF OCTOBER 31, 1996)
(SDR's)
SFpending Plan
Item          (revised November 20. 1996)  Expended            Committed
Books                     6,962,929               6,962,929                     0
Journals                  6,682,089               6,545,618               136,471
Equipment                11,394,112               9,962,607              1,431,5051
Staff Development         3,784,954               3,230,006               554,9482
NESS                        533,547                 533,547                     0
NUC Secretariat            1,138,639                835,988               302,651
Natl. Education Bank        164.605                 157.470                 L135
TOTAL                   30,660,875              28.228,165              2,432,710
Bill Saint
C:\WINWORD\DOC\NIGERIA\COMPLETE.NUC
February 6, 1997 5:11 PM
I Includes SDR 216,762 for UAS computer hardware.
2 Includes SDR 450,278 for NuNet and UAS training.



Attachment 2
Page 1 of 3
AGREED LIST OF PENDING EXPENDITURES
(November 20, 1 996)
.- ::    -    .    :   -:   :-:  - :- .::-. -: : :A             .......    -:..:.: :.-.-:......   ::. A.....t:::-
.mon   3 .  t                                                             ont      ..t
John Laing International                     22,977      Nearly complete     Receipt of outstanding         1 2 Dec 96
certificates.
John Laing (15% change order)               214,594    Delivery pending.
John Laing (accessories)                     53,756    Delivery pending.
SIMED International                          1 7,856        Complete         None.                          22 Nov 96    With Finance
Department.
ITE Nigeria                                  65,850      Nearly complete     Receipt of outstanding
_____ ____ ____   ___ ____ ____ ____ ____ certificates.
Health Aid                                   44,840      Deliveries done     All certificates outstanding.                Problem with L/C
balance.
Tecquipment                                  24,929      Deliveries done     All certificates outstanding.                 Installation still under
way.
Philips                                     272,984   Deliveries underway   Installation, training and
certificates.
ICL Ltd.                                      6,245         Complete         None                           22 Nov 96    With Finance Department
Fisons Scientific                            61,395    Largely complete    Small number of                                Withdrawal Application
certificates outstanding.                    for $1 million pending.
Fisons Scientific (proprietary spares)       17,282    Delivery pending.



Page 2 of 3
..A . . .       ...w
Suj'  di' tv1ty             Commitid                                       . J     . . . .  x.                       M
VWR Scientific                             16,779        Complete        Last submission of            7 Dec 96    With Equipment
certificates under review.                 Committee.
Jencons Scientific                        178,267     Deliveries done.    Three-quarters of
certificates received.
Mekins Agro Products                       12,378    Awaiting delivery.   Delivery, installation,                   Supplier advised to ship by
L/C established.    certificates.                             31 December. (Problem?)
Eagle Scientific                            3,996        Complete.       None.
Eagle Scientific (15% change order)        12,232    Delivery pending.
EIL Services                               17,720     Deliveries done.    Five certificates received,               One delivery was pilfered
others awaited.                            and is being replaced.
G. Cussons Ltd.                            19,582    Awaiting delivery.   Delivery, installation,                   Goods ready for shipment.
certificates.
BUSiCON (Tin Lib)                          40,625      Delivery done.    Signed contract.              December
Gemco                                      48,890  Final report pending.  Final billing and verification.
Takudu Enterprises                         61,743  Deliveries underway.  Receipt of certificates.       January
International Centre for Theoretical      202,144   Contract signature                                  January     Training to take place from
Physics (NuNet Training)                                  pending.                                                  November 18 to December
Synergy Systems                           248,133    Delivery pending.                                   March      Partial payment likely in
I _I                                            I_               January.



Page 3 of 3
: --: Supp erlActivity          Coh ::.t:        :      Status          .equir               s       -     ae oq Final       :      o-me :.
::: ~ ~   .. ::-  ..... .:  ... ::  :-:                                                                                 ......      . :::  ....::S R : :::: :::::  :   : -  ::  ::::   - ::  :::: :    :-f - -
~~~~~~~~~~~~. ..  .                   ........                                             . ...
Rivera Holding (UAS hardware)                  216,762    Delivery underway.   Certicates from universities.
B. H. Blackwell (books)                                          Complete.
B. H. Blackwell (journals)                                     Final shipment       Reconciliation of accounts.                      One or two small refunds
pending.                                                           expected.
Low Priced Books                                    174   Adjustment pending.                                                        Review underway.
Staff Development                               104,671                             Reconciliation of claims and                     This amount is an
______________                             refunds plus commitments.                        estimate only.
NEB/NSLB                                          7,136   Deliveries complete.   Receipt of certificates.
TOTAL                                        1,993,940'
1 Equivalent to $2,864,175 on December 9, 1996.



Attachment 3
TIMETABLE OF KEY ACTIONS
Date                                       ActionI
November 30, 1996             NUC reimburses Bank for overpayment on Withdrawal
Application No. NUC/58 of Naira 2,788,508.97.
December 31, 1996             Deadline for shipment of all internationally contracted
goods, and for receipt of all services and local goods.
March 15, 1997                Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) sent to
NUC for comment.
April 15, 1997                Deadline for receipt of ICR comments from NUC.
April 30, 1997                Deadline for receipt of Withdrawal Applications.
May 20, 1997                  Summary project accounts information available.
June 15, 1997                 Implementation Completion Report to printers.
June 26, 1997                 Submission of Implementation Completion Report to
World Bank Executive Directors.
June 30, 1997                 Deadline for submission of 1996 audit.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(IDA CREDIT 2139- UNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OCTOBER, 1996
NATIONAL UNIVERSITIES COMMISSION
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT,
AJA NWACHUKWU HOUSE,
PLOT 430, AGUIYI IRONSI STREET,
MAITAMA DISTRICT,
P.M.B. 237, GARKI G.P.O.,
ABUJA - NIGERIA.
TELEPHONE: (09) 5233176-81
FAX: (09) 5233520
(09) 5233183



Table of Contents
Page
1.0  Introduction  ....        ....       ....              1
2.0  Historical Background of University
Education       ....      ....       ....              1
3.0  Objectives of the Project             ....             1
4.0  Eligibility Criteria      ....       ....              2
5.0  Books Acquisition          ....      ....              4
6.0  Journals Acquisition       ....      ....              4
7.0  Staff Development: Universities/NUC
Secretariat    ....       ....       ....              5
8.0  Equipment Acquisition  ....          ....              5
9.0  implementation Arrangement    ....                     6
10.0 Monitoring    ....        ....       ....              7
11.0 The Role of the Finance Department in
Project Implementation ....          ....              8
12.0 General Lessons Learned and
Recommendations           ....       ....              8
13.0 Conclusion    ....        ....       ....              10



NATIONAL UNIVERSITIES COMMISSION
FEDERAL UNIVERSITIES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
CREDIT (IDA CREDIT 2139-UNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.0  Introduction
Concerned by the deteriorating situation in Nigerian universities, Government decided to
invite the World Bank in 1987 to carry out a study on how the situation could be salvaged
and advise on the most cost-effective way of running the operations of federal universitles.
The aftermath of the study was the realisation of the need, within a short time, for massive
importation of library books and journals, laboratory equipment and spares as well as
training of university staff. This was to ensure that the federal universitles would improve
the effectiveness of their teaching and research whilst at the same time becoming more
cost-effective. Government realised that the essential inputs as stated above would require
a huge amount of foreign exchange, which might not immediately be within its reach due
to the economic downturn affecting not only Nigeria, but most developing countries. The
only alternative open to Government was to turn to the World Bank for assistance In the
form of a loan, which subsequently granted a credit of US$120 million In 1990 to be
disbursed over a three-year period. The twenty federal universities, which were in
existence when the study was carried out, participated in the project.
2.o   Historical Background of University Education
University education in Nigeria dates back to 1948, when a University College was
established in Ibadan and affiliated to the University of London. Less than 15 years later,
Nigerian leaders became impatient with the pace of university education and decided to
establish four more universities. Subsequent increased rate of establishment of new
universities was confounded with ever increasing enrolment, staff, and an economic
downturn; bringing into focus more than ever before, the need to increasingly coordinate
the development of university education. Nigeria currently has a total of thirty-seven (37)
universities enroling between them close to 250,000 full-time students. Twenty-five of
these universities are owned by the Federal Government, while the various state
Governments account for the remaining twelve.
The National Universities Commission (NUC) was first established in 1962 by Government to
coordinate university education development under the aegis of the Federal Ministry of
Education. It had over the years steadily increased its capacity to coordinate activities in
the Nigerian University system. Among other responsibilities, the NUC sees to the orderly
development of teaching and research in the universities, funding and accreditation to
maintain standards.
3.0   Objectives of the Project
Essentially, the objectives of the Federal Universities Development Sector Adjustment Credit
were informed by the need to improve the quality and efficiency in the universities. The
specific objectives were:
(a)   To improve the effectiveness of teaching and research through the provision of
essential inputs and the upgrading of teaching staff;
(b)   To increase non-governmental income of universities through raising user charges
and expanding income generating activities;
1



(C)   To make university activities more cost effective and efficient, through a
rationalization of course offerings and restructuring of expenditures;
(d)   To reduce the recurrent cost per student borne by Government; and
(e)   To reduce overstaffing and other areas of wastage.
4.0   Eligibility Criteria
The inclusion of eligibility criteria as part and parcel of the implementation of the
Adjustment Credit has been criticised in many quarters, where the criteria were seen as
unnecessary "World Bank conditionalities". The criteria were however introduced by
Nigerian Government for a good reason, It was believed that massive importation, within
a three-year period, of the essential inputs such as books, journals and equipment alone,
would not guarantee sustenance of whatever gain was achieved under the project. More
important was the need to put permanent structures in place that would plug various areas
of wastage of the resources available to the universities. It was the intention of
Government that by the time the credit was completely disbursed, the participating
Universities would be more cost-effective in their operations, would raise significant income
from non governmental sources and put in place a computerised Management Information
System (MIS).
The criteria introduced were mostly derived from the recommendations of the various
visitation panels to the universities which had earlier been accepted by Government. These
have to do with staff reduction, rationalisation of departments and programmes, rational
equipment maintenance and procurement, termination of lease on student hostels and
making hostels self-financing, increasing revenue from non-governmental sources and
introduction of a computerised (MIS). The criteria were tranched into three in line with the
expected life span of the project. To ensure that universities met these criteria before
benefiting from the credit facilities, the sub-committee on Eligibility Criteria was set up.
It designed forms for collecting relevant information from the universities and analyzed
their claims for eligibility before inviting the World Bank for clearance. All the twenty
universities met the first year eligibility criteria between 1991 and 1993. An evaluation of
the criteria is provided below.
4.1   Staff Reduction: Prior to the commencement of the project, most universities were over-
staffed, leading to high salary bills, with little or no funds left for the procurement of
goods and services. This necessitated the stipulation under the project that for a university
to draw on funds for the first year, such university shall have completed a freeze on
recruitment of all categories of staff, where NUC norms were exceeded. Furthermore, it
was expected that the university shall have selected and named for staff reduction, one
half of excess non-academic staff, according to NUC guidelines. All excess non-academic and
half of the academic staff were to be removed from the pay roll of the university before
the end of the project.
Current provisional figures indicate that none of the participating universities has excess
academic staff, while only five have a few excess senior non-academic staff and two have
excess junior staff. In contrast to the situation before the commencement of the project,
the University System, presently, is short of staff of all categories when compared with the
NUC staffing norms. The shortfalls in the expected staff numbers are as follows: 40.4% of
academic staff; 23.2% of senior technical staff; 26.3% of senior administrative staff; and
43.0% of junior staff.
The staff/student ratio improved significantly, from 1:13 in 1987/88 session to 1:20 during
the 1995/96 session.
2



4.2   Course Rationalisation: Departments that had been in existence for more than ten years
but had less than 40 full-time equivalent (FTE) undergraduate students, were considered
unviable and were to be phased out. SUCh departments were very common prior to the
commencement of the project. yThere are currently only two universities with such
departments in their faculties of human and veterinary medicine.
similarly, remedial programmes were considered inappropriate in a university setting, as
prospective university students who are deficient could be remedied at a lower level
institution where the costs will be much less. To date, all remedial programmes in arts have
been phased out of all the participating universities, while only very few still have remedial
programmes in the sciences because of the paucity of science students seeking admission
to such institutions.
4.3   Making Student Hostels Self-Financing: It was considered unrealistic to charge only 90
Naira per session per student as hostel fees and such fees were to be reviewed upwards to
cover the cost of running the hostels. This has not been achieved as no revision of fees has
been made. All universities have however succeeded in terminating the lease on all their
rented student hostels. In addition, a substantial cost of runing the hostels such as
provision of consumables have now been passed on to students.
4.4   Rational Equipment Maintenance and Procurement: Each participating university was
expected to prepare and implement a detailed plan showing how and when out-of-order
equipment will be repaired, and what general maintenance facilities will be established.
Furthermore, 60% of all equipment procurement by the university from any source of
funds, should be in accordance with standard specifications and from approved
manufacturers. The above stipulation was advised by the lack of attention on the part of
the universities to the maintenance of their equipment leaving many of them in very poor
state of disrepair. A lot of changes have since taken place as each of the participating
universities has now established an equipment maintenance centre and over 70% of the
broken down equipment have been repaired and put into use. Technologists from the
universities also received training in equipment maintenance and in equipment technical
specifications writing.
4.5  Increasing Revenues From Non-Governmental Sources: By the third year of the project,
each university was expected to have raised 10% of its total recurrent revenues from a
combination of tuition fees, profits from businesses, consultancy services, and revenue
from endowments. A combination of factors has made it difficult for the universities to
achieve this laudable goal. Tuition for Nigerian undergraduates has continued to be free
in the Federal universities. Secondly, the 1992 agreement between the Government and
the Academic Staff Union of Nigerian Universities (ASUU) resulted in significant increase in
Government funding while there was no corresponding revision of the fees and charges
on the goods and services provided by the universities. The unstable economic and
political situation of the country also hampered generation of income from the areas of
businesses, consultancy services and endowments. The result is that, rather than increase,
the proportion of revenue generated by the universities from non-governmental sources,
has reduced over the years to about 4%.
4.6  Introduction of a Comguterised MIS: Availability of accurate and timely information for
planning and decision making was considered very crucial to good management. Under
the project, therefore, universities were expected to put in place a computerised
Management Information System (MIS). The computer software (NUMIS 1.1) developed by
the MIS technical committee, has been installed in all the Federal Universities, and is
currently being used for the 1995/96 academic session. Work on the uniform accounting
system has reached an advanced stage. The Committee of Bursars has drawn up the
accounting codes and handed them over to the technical committee for programming.
3



5.0   Books Acquisition
The acquisition of books under the adjustment credit was intended to ensure a substantial
inflow of current books into the Nigerian University Librarv System that would support
learning, teaching and research. Beginning from the mid-80s, with the continuous
devaluation of the Naira, and annual inflation in the cost of educational materials, Nigerian
University Libraries found it increasingly difficult to keep up with their annual acquisition
growth rate. The cost of text books went beyond the reach of the ordinary student. Thus,
students, faculty staff and librarians were left to depend largely on books published several
years back without access to more current editions and new publications.
With a budgetary provision of USS10 million, for books, a Subcommittee on Books
Acquisition was set up to coordinate books acquisition in the 20 participating universities.
All acquisition lists from the universities were channelled through the sub-committee to the
procurement agents. Status reports on acquisition from the sub-committee were sent to
the universities. ThuS; the sub-committee served as a bridge between procurement agents
and the universities and provided a means of monitoring the performance of agents and
the universities. The sub-committee also served in monitoring publicity of new arrivals in
the library, book processing and levels of utilisation of the books procured through the
credit.
The books sub-component of the project has been most successful and a total of 212,593
books have been acquired for the University Library System. Reports of utilisation of books
acquired under the project from the universities indicate a significant use of the books and
a higher patronage of the libraries by students and faculty staff.
6.0   Journals Acquisition
The sub-committee on journals was charged with responsibilities similar to those of the
books sub-committee.  It collated and consolidated journal lists submitted by the
universities before forwarding them to the procurement agents. It also scrutinised the
Certificates of Acceptance issued by the universities before passing them on for payment.
Under the adjustment credit, the 20 participating federal universities have been supplied
current Journals from 1993 - 1996.
The values of journals for the years 1993 to 1995 were as follows:
Amount                Titles
1993 Journals            US$2,147,617.42          2,747
1994 Journals            US$2,442,142.50          3,235
1995 Journals            USS2,876,728.65          3,601
1996 Journals            US$2,410,644.34          2,754
The provision of journals under the credit has given the Libraries, the basic primary
resource materials to support research in the universities. The reaction of the faculty staff
and graduate students to these journals has been that of excitement and profound relief.
Since 1984, this has been the first time current academic/research journals were being
received and on display for use in their Libraries. Now they can have access to the work
of other scholars in their areas of interest/research. No longer would they depend on their
personal network with friends in overseas countries to have access to current
developments in their fields. The nightmare of rejection of contribution to journals on
grounds of old references was all over. Now they belong to the global academic
community of current and timely information. It has been a great success. Most
importantly, the cost element of books/journals acquisition as gleaned from the project
implementation has led to the upward review of library funding from 5% of universities
recurrent expenditure to 10% since 1993.
4



7.0   Staff Development: Universities/NUC Secretariat
The sub-committee on staff development processed the documents for the nominees of
the universities and the NUC for training under the project. It was also responsible for the
design of the guidelines for the component.
7.1   Universities: The Staff Development component of the Federal Adjustment Credit facility
was created in order to assist the universities improve the staffing situation especially the
teaching staff in science and technology-related fields in the participating universities, a
situation brought about by considerable brain drain of senior academics to other countries.
Initially, the target was the Ph.D bound science-based academics to be trained under a 9-
month programme in institutions overseas to enable them acquire skills that would
facilitate the completion of their Ph.D programmes and familiarise themselves with relevant
modern equipment which were not available in their own universities. The scheme was,
however, later extended to include 3-month programmes to update the professional skills
of post-doctoral fellows, and 3-month programmes for non-teaching staff especially
technicians and technologists in the area of equipment maintenance. Between the twenty
universities that participated in this programme, 350 university staff benefitted. The
distribution of the beneficiaries shows that 76% of them were academic staff while females
accounted for 14%.
More than 90% of all the beneficiaries have completed their programmes overseas and
returned to their universities. Reports from the universities indicate that the impact of the
training on the individuals and their universities has been tremendous. Quite a number of
the pre-doctoral fellows were able to complete their Ph.D programmes, thereby improving
the quantity and quality of the academic staff in universities. The sum of US$4.5 million was
expended on Universities Staff Development programme.
7.2   NUC Secretariat:  For the National Universities Commission, the Staff Development
programme under the project was aimed at strengthening the executive capacity of NUC
staff for a more effective management of the universities. Emphasis of the training
undertaken was on acquisition of skills and a total of forty-five (46) staff across the seven
departments benefitted from the programme. The programme has had a positive impact
on the work output of the beneficiaries.
The successful implementation of the staff development programme was however, not
without some problems. The problems encountered were mostly communication
difficulties such as delays in securing admission to institutions overseas. Also, there was a
general complaint by beneficiaries that the maintenance allowance was inadequate and the
period of training overseas was too short. University authorities also complained about the
restriction of the programme to academic staff in the sciences and wanted the programme
extended not only to academic staff in other fields but to Management staff who should
go for training and updating of their managerial skills. These issues would need to be
addressed against similar programmes in future. On the whole, the implementation of the
staff development programme under the Credit was a success and a future programme of
staff development Is desirable for the system.
8.0   Equipment Acquisition
The functions of Equipment Acquisition Sub-committee included responding to enquiries
from universities, bidders/suppliers and the consultants. The sub-committee also advised
the universities on such issues as pre-installation requirements and site preparations with
respect to the equipment they had ordered. It designed the Acceptance Certificate, to be
completed by the universities after being satisfied with the installation, commissioning and
training, where applicable, with respect to the equipment delivered under the project.
5



8.1   Eaulpment Procurement Consultant: Equipment Proucrement Consultant firm was
appointed through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The terms of reference of the
consultant in a capsular form include: provision of specifications for equipment on
universities lists; preparation of bidding documents; bids opening, evaluatlon and
supervision of equipment; delivery to sites, their installation and commissioning.
After receiving the equipment specifications from the universities, the consultant made
appropriate packages and prepared the bidding documents, which were sent to the World
Bank for clearance. The consultants participated in the bids opening, evaluation and
evaluation report writing. Prior to the bids opening, they assisted in answering queries
from the prospective bidders. They also prepared the bidding documents for the
procurement of Non-proprietary spare parts.
in view of the continuous development of new and more sophisticated equipment, the
services of an equipment procurement consultant will be needed for future projects.
8.2   New Eauipment Procurement:  New items of equipment were procured through
International Competitive Bidding (I.C.B) in accordance with the guidelines of the World
Bank. The bidding documents were classified into (i) General Specifications and (II) Technical
Specifications. The TEchnical Specifications comprised of Medical Equipment and Food
sciences, Agronomic and Meteorology; Material Analyses, Surveying, Generators, Air Pumps
and Compressors; Electrical/Electronics, Teaching/Training, AudioNisual, Ofice and
Photographic, Data Processing and Communication Systems; Laboratory Equipment, and Bill
of Quantities. Total cost of new equipment was USS14.763 million.
8.3   Proprietary and Non-Proprietary Spares: Proprietary and Non-proprietary spares consist
of spares parts, tools and test equipment for the universities, equipment maintenance
centres and were procured, through Limited International Bidding (LIB). The total amount
involved was US$591,049.
8.4   Bids Opening and Evaluation: The National Universities Commission set up an evaluation
committee under the Chairmanship of a professor of engineering. The bids were opened
in the presence of the bidders or their representatives who wished to attend. Evaluation
exercise commenced immediately after the bids opening, and the evaluation report
prepared and submitted to the World Bank for "no objection".
9.o  Implementation Arrangement
9.1   Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Commission: The project was implemented by
the National Universities Commission on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Education. To
carry out this assignment, the Commission set up a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under
the chairmanship of one of its Directors with members drawn from the various relevant
departments. As occasion demanded however, one or two consultants were employed to
provide necessarV professional/technical advice especially in the areas of journals and
equipment procurement. The Unit itself had a total of six sub-committees, namely, Books,
Journals, Equipment, Staff Development, Eligibility Criteria and Monitoring. Also, staff of
the Department of Finance and Supplies handled the accounts of the project. The Legal
Unit of the NUC assisted in preparation of bidding documents, interpretation of the
provisions of contracts and general legal advice on the project. Regular meetings of the
PIU were held once a month to discuss issues affecting the project. Similarly, the Executive
Secretary, NUC met with the Unit every month for briefing and executive advice. While the
PIU saw to the smooth operation of the project as a whole, each sub-committee advised
on its specific areas of competence. The functions and activities of each sub-committee
as well as their implementation strategies had been reviewed earlier (4.0 - 8.4).
9.2   Proiect Implementation Committee (PICs) in the Universities: Each of the participating
universities also had a project implementation committee (PIC) headed by a senior academic
with members representing the librarian, bursar and technologists. Each PIC had a
6



secretariat in the office of the Vice-Chancellor, which was well equipped with a computer
and complement of staff to enable them establish a database on staff, students, books,
journals and equipment in respect of the project. The responsibilities of the Pics were
similar to those of the PIU but at the university level. They saw to the submission of
information requested by the PIU and generally coordinated all activities relating to the
Project in their universities.
9.3   centrallsed Procurement: To take advantage of the benefits derivable from economies
of scale, the procurement of books, journals and equipment was centralised as an NUC
responsibility rather than allowing each university to make its own arrangements. This
however did not take away from the universities the power to decide on what Items to
purchase since the lists were provided by them. Through international competitive bidding
(ICB), procurement agents were appointed by the NUC for the supply and delivery of books
and journals and equipment to the various locations of the universities as ordered by them.
The centralised procurement was quite successful but put a lot of responsibilities on the
project officers in NUC in terms of monitoring and reporting. Centralised procurement is
however, recommended for future projects.
9.4   Banking Arrangements: AS one of the World Bank requirements, the NUC maintained a
domiciliary account with a commercial bank through which payments were made for goods
and services purchased under the project after due certification by the beneficiaries. The
banking arrangements allowed the PIU to meet small commitments without resorting to
the relatively long process of completing withdrawal applications. The project accounts
were audited regularly by external auditors appointed by the PIU for that purpose. In order
to ensure that audits are completed on time for future project, external auditor should be
appointed for the length of the project, instead of going through the process of
appointing auditors for every year of the project.
9.5   Coordination and Planning: Members of the PIU and the Executive Secretary met twice
a year with the chairmen of the PiCs, University Librarians and the technical coordinators
from the participating universities as well as the procurement agents and consultants. The
purpose of such meetings was to assess the progress made on the implementation of the
project in the universities and their preparedness to receive the facilities accruing to them
under the credit. Plans for future actions were often prepared at the meeting.
9.6   ProleCt Review Meeting with World Bank: Meetings were held occasionally, about twice
a year with Dr. William Saint, Task Manager from World Bank to review the project. During
such meetings, the project spending plans were updated and where necessary, changes
were made to ensure smooth execution of the project, such meetings have proved
beneficial to both parties. These meetings afforded the NUC a first hand information of
the Bank's assessment of its performance, take note of lapses and focus more sharply on
project accomplishment.
9.7   Communication: NUC-PIU Secretariat published regularly a newspaper titled the PROJECT
NEWS and distributed copies free to Universities and other interested readers. This helped
to publicize the activities under the project. AlSo there were articles In national dailies and
NUC Newsletter publicising the project.
10.0  Monitoring
A Monitoring Sub-committee was set up to carry out an on-the-spot verification of Items
supplied to the universities. It also tried to ensure that adequate preparations were made
to receive the goods ordered under the project and that they were promptly processed
for use by the university community. On quarterly basis, it organised visits to the Libraries,
Departments, Equipment Maintenance Centres, during which discussions were held with
project officers In the universities. Monthly reports were received from the universities
and analyzed periodically by the Monitoring Sub-committee.
7



11.o  Projects Financial Management and Accounting Functions
11.1  FInancial Management:   The Project's Financial Management Activities, entail
first,Monitoring the Project's Spending Plan, to ensure that fund disbursements for project
activities, are, within the limits of approved allocations and secondly, operating the SPecial
Dollar Account.
Administration of the Spending Plan:  Credit Fund Allocation for all Projected
Expenditure Heads were determined prior to Project Implementation. However, fund draw-
downs from the Special Dollar Account and the Credit Accounts were initially slowed down
by the lack of information on Bank Procedures ie Disbursements and "No Objection"
requirement, and the absence of appropriate internal Procedures within the Project
Implementation Unit, to process transactions relating to Project Expenditure.
The Department has, however, received various written materials on Bank Guidelines and
Procedures and also, benefitted from various short seminars and workshops organised by
the Bank on these matters. Standard operating Procedures have since been designed and
put in place. These procedures are now being reviewed and fine-tuned to enhance their
effectiveness in subsequent projects.
11.2  ORerating the Special DollarAccount: The Department had experienced some difficulties
in the operation of the Special Dollar Account, especially in relation to the regular
submission of Replenishment Applications to the Bank. Some of the factors responsible for
this include, lapses by Project Bankers at the initial stage and difficulties in processing data
received from the Project Bankers, owing to inadequate staffing.  Project Banker's
constraints include (i) irregular and most times, late receipt of Bank Statements and Advices,
and also, feed back on queries forwarded to the Bank usually took some time.
The inadequate staffing situation in the Department between 1990 and 1994, has improved
recently. This has enhanced the Department's ability to process data received from the
Project's Bankers.
In addition, the computerization of Project Accounts, embarked upon by the Department
is about becoming operational and all the Accounting functions will be Computer based at
the time the Investment Credit Project takes off. The Credit Project, has offered the
Department the opportunity to train most of its Principal Officers on Computer Application
in Finance and Accounts.
11.3  Accounting Functions: A Project Account's Unit was created in the Department, in the
course of Project Implementation. The Unit was exclusively charged with the responsibility
of Preparing all the statements (duly supported with documentary evidence) that the
Project regularly submits for Audit.
12.0  General Lessons Learned and Recommendations
12.1  Implementation Arrangements: The sub-committee system of the PIU to handle sub-
components of the project, which came into effect in May 1993, has been most effective
in terms of project implementation. This should be retained in future projects, right from
inception. Regular meetings of the Executive Secretary with the chairmen of the PICs and
procurement agents provided an opportunity for all universities and agents to discuss
problems facing them and proffer solutions. At the initial stage of the project, some
universities had problems financing the operations of the PIC secretariats as there were no
provisions for them. Future projects must take into account the fact that such operations
require funding and financial provision should be made for them from the project funds.
8



The Commission believes that an NUC staff of the rank of a Director with relevant university
work experience should serve as the project manager at the NUC level. The rank of director
will enable the project manager interact readily at the same level with Vice-Chancellors,
while work experience in a university would enable the project manager work with a good
measure of familiarity to the university community.
12.2  Books: Access to current publishers catalogues was found to be crucial in the elimination
of "out of the print" orders in the acquisition of books by university libraries. At the
inception of the project there was a lot of "out of print" books in the orders. This was
eliminated by distributing current publishers catalogues to the libraries. It is recommended
for the PIU to contact major publishers in Europe and North America to send their current
catalogues for distribution as an on going exercise during future projects.
12.3  Journals: Care should always be exercised in the selection of procurement agents for
journals, as there were some hitches at the initial stage of the project.
A look at the number of titles on subscription for 1993 to 1995 and what Is expected for
1996 shows wide variation in total numbers. Libraries like to have complete runs of titles
over a long period of time. The fluctuation in number over the years in this project has
been due to financial constraints. It is recommended that for future projects the budget
for journals should be such that an inflationary growth rate of about 15% is built Into the
budget for every succeeding year. Journals' prices were found to have an inflationary
growth rate of 15 - 20% annually.
12.4 EquiPment: From equipment and spare parts procurement, the technical coordinators in
the universities have gained experience in writing equipment technical specifications. In
fact, when it was realised that the work was getting too much, the technical coordinators
came to offer assistance. Writing of equipment technical specifications made possible the
preparation of bidding documents for equipment procurement. The universities also
acquired latest catalogues from various manufacturers. With this, obsolete items of
equipment were eliminated from their lists and spare parts could be correctly specified
for various broken down equipment. It is recommended that the technical coordinators
be given more training in this regard to enable them have confidence to work with
minimum supervision of a consultant. Future projects should aim at minimizing the use of
consultants. It is also recommended that NUC or universities should, on a continuous basis,
obtain latest catalogues from manufacturers to enable them update their lists of
equipment specifications and modifications.
12.5  Staff Development: Staff Development proved to be the most popular aspect of the
project. Many staff, who for many years did not have access to adequate facilities and
equipment, took advantage of the programme to travel overseas and are now completing
their Ph.D programmes or applying the knowledge gained to the benefit of the universities.
The sub-component brought into focus the need for continuous training and should be
included in future projects.
12.6  Eligibility Criteria: Eligibility Criteria constituted the most unpopular aspect of the project.
None of the universities wanted them. With the enforcement of the criteria however, most
universities are no longer over-staffed and the incidence of unviable departments has
virtually disappeared. Universities are now more cost-conscious than ever before. For
future projects, eligibility criteria must be well publicised and the objectives agreed by all
concerned. Flexibility is also essential so that each university could benefit from the project
at its own pace, thereby sowing the seeds of healthy competition.
12.7  Monitoring: Monitoring was found to be very crucial to the implementation of the
project. With the quarterly visits, universities soon discovered there was no hiding place
for them. In future however, the officials going on monitoring need to stay longer In the
universities to ensure that they bring all documents and information expected of them.
9



13.0  Conclusion
13.1  The Adjustment Credit operation has been a major success given the intervening variables
such as strikes, lock-outs, and the larger political social climates in the country at the time
of implementation.
The major achievements of the project in the university system may be summarised as
follows:
*     Reduction in excess non-teaching staff across board in the university system. This
reduction had a cost saving effect in lowering overhead cost of running the
universities.
*     There was steady supply of current books and journals to the university library
system, thus enriching library collections.
*     The staff development programme helped many junior academic staff in the
sciences to complete their Ph.D programmes on time, thus increasing the quality of
faculty staff in the system. It also exposed beneficiaries to modern laboratories
abroad and make contact with their peers and senior researchers in their
specialities.
*     Through centralised procurement of equipment there is now a national inventory
of equipment available within the Nigerian University system. This will greatly
enhance access to essential equipment and tools as well as promote collobrative
research among faculty statff across the country.
*     The staff development programme for NUC has raised the level of competency in
management and job related computer operations. This has, on the whole, greatly
enhanced the executive capacity of NUC as a supervisory body of the University
system in Nigeria.
The following is a list of the participating Universities in the project:
1 .   University of Ibadan, Ibadan.
2.   University of Lagos, Lagos.
3.   University of Nigeria, Nsukka.
4.   Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria.
5.   Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife.
6.   University of Benin, Benin City.
7.   University of Jos, Jos.
8.   University of Calabar, Calabar.
9.   Bayero University, Kano.
10.   University of Maiduguri, Maiduguri.
11.   Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto.
12.   University of llorin, llorin,
13.   University of Port Harcourt, Port Harcourt.
14.   Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi.
15.   University of Agriculture, Makurdi.
16.   Federal University of Technology, Owerri.
17.   Federal University of Technology, Minna.
18.   Federal University of Technology, Akure.
19.   University of AGriculture, Abeokuta.
20.   Federal University of Technology, Yola.
24th October, 1996.
10






IMAGING
Report No.:          16639
Type:     ICR



