Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2139 UNI
                   Development Credit Agreement
             (Federal Universities Development Sector
                        Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 18, 1990
                      CREDIT NUMBER 2139 UNI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 18, 1990, between the FEDERAL REPUBLIC
OF NIGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated April
30, 1990, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of
the Federal University System of the Borrower's education sector
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently needed
imports and services required during such execution; and
      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches as
hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
      Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
      such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
      Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
      furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
      detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
      execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the
      Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower
      and the Association of their respective obligations under the
      Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
      purposes of the Credit."; and
      (c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "FME" means the Borrower's Federal Ministry of
Education;
      (c)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit within FME;
      (d)   "NUC" means the Borrower's National Universities
Commission, established as a statutory entity under the National
Universities Commission Decree No. 1 of 1974, as amended to date;
      (e)   "SLB" means the Borrower's Students Loans Board
established under the Students Loans Board Decree No. 12 of 1988, as
amended to date;
      (f)   "Academic year" means the period commencing in September
and ending in June the following year;
      (g)   "Eligible University" means a federal university which
has met the eligibility criteria referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
      (h)   "First Generation University" means any of the six
universities established before 1975;
      (i)   "Second Generation University" means any of the seven
universities established between 1975 and 1978; and
      (j)   "Third Generation University" means any of the seven
universities established between 1979 and 1988.
                           ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
Page  3
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ninety three million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 93,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of l%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
l%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15
commencing November 15, 2000, and ending May 15, 2025. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15,
2010, shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Page  4
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 2.09. Without limitation or restriction to the
foregoing, the Borrower hereby entrusts FME with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the Association in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than SDR
100,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
annually exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. In order to enable NUC and SLB to discharge
their responsibilities under the Program, the Borrower shall
strengthen the operations of NUC and SLB by providing adequate staff
to assist their Executive Secretaries.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expen-
ditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  5
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                  to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Development
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Honourable Minister
            Federal Ministry of Finance and
            Economic Development
            PMB 12591
            Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
            Lagos, Nigeria
            Cable address:                Telex:
Page  6
                  FEDMINFIN                21248 (ITT)  Lagos
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Gable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                  197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA)
                                            82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                  By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Books, journals,          90,790,000        lOO% of foreign
    equipment, spare                            expenditures and
    parts and services                          90% of local
    for the Eligible                            expenditures
    Universities
(2) NUC and SLB:
    (a)  Consultants'          1,210,000        lOO%
         services,
         training and
         studies
    (b)  Vehicles,             1,000,000        lOO% of foreign
         equipment                              expenditures and
Page  7
         and materials                          90% of local
                                                expenditures
    (c)  Incremental             500,000        lOO%
         operating
         costs
                              __________
         TOTAL                93,500,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means incremental
travel and transport expenditures, vehicles and equipment
maintenance, local training, and costs relating to communications to
enable NUC and SLB to discharge their responsibilities under the
Program.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph l above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding $4,000,000 equivalent may be made on account of payments
made under Categories (l) and (2) in the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for expenditures before that date but
after January l, l990;
      (b)   expenditures for goods (other than spare parts) under
Category (l) in the table set forth in paragraph l of this Schedule
procured under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and
      (c)   payments for expenditures for a university under
Category (l) in the table set forth in paragraph l of this Schedule
until such university has met the eligibility criteria specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.    (a)   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated to Category (1) in the table set forth in paragraph
l of this Schedule after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 31,200,000,
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on
evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and
(ii) that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 3 of this
Agreement have been taken.
      (b)   No further withdrawal shall be made and no commitment
shall be entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the
Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (l) in the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, after the aggregate of the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
total amount of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent
of SDR 62,400,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after
a further exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of the
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i)
with progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program;
Page  8
and (ii) that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken.
5.    If, after either of the exchange of views described in para-
graph 4 (a) or 4 (b) above, the Association shall have given notice
to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to
the Association, then the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part
thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Non-proprietary spare parts (not to exceed in the aggregate an
amount equivalent to $5,000,000) may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at
least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.    Proprietary spare parts may be procured by direct contracts
with the original manufacturer of such spare parts or its authorized
agent.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix l to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  9
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix l to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Program,
the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4
                  of Schedule l to this Agreement
Part A:     Second Tranche
1.    Universities: (a) with at least 50% of total undergraduate
enrollments in the federal university system shall have met the
first year eligibility criteria referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and (b) with at least 35% of such enrollments shall have
met the second year eligibility criteria referred to in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
2.    Confirmation that FME's share of the 1991 Federal Budget shall
be maintained at least at its 1989 level.
3.    The lodging fee for the University campuses has been increased
to at least N180 per student bed-space per session; said fee being
subject to periodic reviews.
Part B:     Third Tranche
l.    Universities: (a) with at least 50% of total undergraduate
enrollments in the federal university system shall have met the
second year eligibility criteria referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and (b) with at least 35% of such enrollments shall have
met the third year eligibility criteria referred to in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
2.    The accreditation exercise in all the Borrower's Federal
universities shall have been completed, the accreditation status of
all programs publicized and the universities informed of the
time-bound remedial action they will have to take on all programs
that have not met the accreditation criteria.
3.    During the 1991/92 academic year all Federal Universities
shall have achieved NUC's guidelines with respect to the maximum
proportion of the block recurrent grants that may be spent on
personnel emoluments.
4.    Confirmation that FME's share of the 1992 Federal Budget is
maintained at least at its 1989 level.
5.    The first of the periodic reviews of the lodging fee mentioned
in Part A.3 above shall have been completed.
                            SCHEDULE 4
           Eligibility Criteria for Federal Universities
                 referred to in Paragraph 3(c) of
                   Schedule 1 to this Agreement
      In order to draw on funds from any tranche up to a limit of
$2,500,000 for a First Generation University, $2,330,000 for a
Page  10
Second Generation University and $1,950,000 for a Third Generation
University, a university must meet the following eligibility
criteria.
l.    First Year Eligibility Criteria
      (a)   Staff Reduction
            (i)   The university shall have completed a freeze on
                  recruitment of all categories of staff, where NUC
                  staffing guidelines are exceeded;
            (ii)  the university shall have selected and named for
                  staff reduction, one half of excess non-academic
                  staff, according to NUC guidelines.
      (b)   Course Rationalization
            (i)   Any department in the university that has not yet
                  graduated any undergraduate student shall not run
                  postgraduate programs.
            (ii)  Any department in the university that has been in
                  existence for more than ten years, but has less
                  than 40 full time equivalent undergraduate
                  students, is being phased out.
      (c)   Equipment Maintenance and Procurement
            (i)   Preparation by the university of a detailed plan
                  showing how and when out-of-order equipment will
                  be repaired, and what general maintenance
                  facilities will be established.
            (ii)  60% of all equipment procurement by the
                  university from any source of funds, shall be in
                  accordance with standard specifications and from
                  approved manufacturers.
2.    Second Year Eligibility Criteria
      (a)   Staff Reduction
            (i)   The university shall have completed a freeze by
                  recruitment for all categories of staff, where
                  NUC staffing guidelines are exceeded.
            (ii)  The university shall have removed from its
                  payroll all excess non-academic staff according
                  to NUC guidelines.
      (b)   Course Rationalization
            (i)   A First or Second Generation University shall not
                  normally run a postgraduate course with less than
                  twelve students, and a Third Generation shall not
                  normally run a postgraduate course with less than
                  six students.
            (ii)  The university shall have closed down, or
                  obtained approval of, all non approved programs,
                  departments or faculties.
      (c)   Lease of Privately-Owned Hostels
      All leases on privately-owned hostels have been terminated by
the university.
      (d)   Increasing Revenues from Non-Governmental Sources
      The university has raised 7% of its total recurrent revenues
from a combination of tuition fees, profits from businesses,
consultancy services and revenue from endowments.
Page  11
      (e)   Equipment Maintenance and Procurement
            (i)   The university has implemented the plan referred
                  to in paragraph 1 (c) (i) above to repair
                  out-of-order equipment and establish maintenance
                  facilities.
            (ii)  60% of all equipment procured by the university
                  from any sources of funds shall be in accordance
                  with standard specifications and from approved
                  manufacturers.
3.    Third Year Eligibility Criteria
      (a)   Staff Reduction
            (i)   The university shall have completed a freeze on
                  the recruitment for all categories of staff where
                  NUC staffing guidelines are exceeded.
            (ii)  The university shall have removed from its
                  payroll half of its excess academic staff by
                  discipline, according to NUC guidelines.
      (b)   Course Rationalization
      The university shall have phased out any department which has
been in existence for more than ten years, and has less than two
thirds of the normally required academic staff.
      (c)   Increasing Revenues from Non-Governmental Sources
      The university shall have raised 10% of its total recurrent
revenues from a combination of tuition fees, profits from
businesses, consultancy services, and revenue from endowments.
      (d)   Sub-Degree Programs
            (i)   Remedial programs in arts in the university shall
                  have been phased out.
            (ii)  Sub-degree programs that are being offered in
                  other tertiary institutions shall have been
                  phased out from the university except in
                  exceptional cases.
            (iii) Tuition fees for both remedial and other
                  sub-degree programs shall have been increased
                  towards a direction of greater cost recovery.
      (e)   Equipment Maintenance and Procurement
            (i)   The university shall have implemented the plan
                  referred to in paragraph 1 (c) (i) above to
                  repair out-of-order equipment and establish
                  maintenance facilities.
            (ii)  60% of all equipment procured by the university
                  from any sources of funds shall be in accordance
                  with standard specifications and from approved
                  manufacturers.
      (f)   Implementation of the Management Information System
      The university shall have provided to NUC details of unit
costs and costs per graduate by level, department and faculty,
calculated according to the systems and methodologies proposed by
NUC.
                            SCHEDULE 5
Page  12
                          Special Account
l.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (l) and (2) in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
Page  13
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Program, shall equal the equivalent of the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
