Report No. 727a-PH
Philippines                                                                             FILE COPY
Appraisal of the
Magat River Multipurpose Project: Stage I
June 5, 1975
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Irrigation and Area Development Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for onfijial use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility tor the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             Pesos (P) 6.90
P 1.00         =    US$0.145
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)                        2.47 acres
1 kilometer (kIn)     2        =      0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )              0.3886 square miles
1 meter (m)      2                   39.37 inches
i square meter (m )            =     10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)         3 =       35.31 cubic feet
i million cubic meters (Mm ) =    810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)              =      0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)                =      2.2 pounds
1 cavan (paddy)                =     50 kg
20 cavans                      =      1 metric ton
INITIALS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
AMIADP    -    Angat-Magat Integrated Agricultural Development Project
DAR       -    Department of Agrarian Reform
MARIS     -    Magat River Irrigation System
NIA       -    National Irrigation Administration
SIFRIS    -    Siffu River Irrigation System
UPRP      -    Upper Pampanga River Project
USBR      -    United States Bureau of Reclamation
WMT       -    Water Management Technologist



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION    .            .      ..................            i -
I.    INTRODUCTION .......................                                    1
II.    BACKGROUND ............. .........................  * ........*          1
General .                                                         1
The Agricultural Sector .......             ...................    2
The Critcial Role of Water Development  ...........    2
Project Formulation                            .... *....    3
III.    THE PROJECT AREA ...................            ...................    4
Gneneral ..................... ... ......... *.............    4
Climate .......*...............................    5
Topography, Drainage and Soils .................. .               5
Land Tenure and Farm Size .6......................   6
Existing Irrigation Facilities                7..............*   7
Agricultural Production               7.......................   7
Transportation ....... . ... ........................    8
IV.   THE PROJECT ........................ *...............                     8
Project Works  ....... ................... ..... *.. *            9
Water Supply, Demand and Quality    .................  10
Status of Engineering ...........  .....................  11
Engineering Studies:   Stage II ...................  12
Water Management Training ........................   13
Technical Assistance to NIA ......................  13
Cost Estimates .           ........................ . .......  14
Financing ................ ...... . ..... ........ *.    15
Procurement ... o.......... ....  o*.... o................   15
Disbursements .........             .......... .-.. ....         16
Accounts and Audit ....      ......... ...... .   16
Environmental Effects ..........  ... .......                    16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed
of Messrs. E.G. Giglioli, M.G. Saddington (Bank), S.J. Baker and D.G. Knott
(Consultants).



2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT       *..........   .......  17
Project Management ....... .........................  17
Supporting Agricultural Services .................  18
Recovery of Cost   ,......       ....0 ... .... O...  19
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES    21
Production ............................................  21
Market Prospects ... ...-.. .... .. .... ......   ......  21
Prices ...........................................  22
Farm Incomes .. .... .. .........  ........  22
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............ ................  23
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ................  25
ANNr;EXES
1.  Cagayan Basin Development
2.   Climatological Data
3.  Land Tenure and Reform
4.  Project Works
5.  Water Supply, Demand and Quality
6.  Engineering Studies:  Stage II
7.  Technical Assistance to NIA
8.   Cost Estimates
9.  Equipment List
10.   Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
11.   Organization and Management
12.   Supporting Agricultural Services
13.   Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
14.  Market Prospects and Prices
15.   Crop and Farm Budgets
16.   Farm Labor Analysis
17.   Economic Analysis
CHARTS
Implementation Schedule No. 9531
Critical Work Action Schedule Leading to Award of Contract for
Magat Dam No. 9684
NIA Organization for Special Projects No. 9533(R)
Proposed Organization for Project Construction No. 9534
Proposed Organization for Operation and Maintenance No. 9535
Proposed Cropping Calendar No. 9536
MAP
Magat River Multipurpose Project No. 11463R



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
i.        The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank assistance
to carry out Stage I of the Magat River Multipurpose Project, which is
located in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon. Stage I of the project
consists of the rehabilitation and upgrading of two existing national
and several communal irrigation systems now serving a total of 52,000 ha
and the expansion of these systems by construction of new works to serve
an additional 23,000 ha and permit a cropping intensity of 140% on the total
75,000 ha. The Asian Development Bank is assisting with the rehabilitation
of 40,000 ha of Stage I under the Angat-Magat Integrated Agricultural Develop-
ment Project. This is referred to as Stage IA. The part of Stage I proposed
for Bank assistance, Stage IB, includes works for the rehabilitation of 12,000
ha and construction of new facilities on 23,000 ha. Stage II of the project
envisages the construction on the Magat river of a storage dam and power
plant with an installed capacity of 300 MW, the development of irrigation
facilities on an additional 29,000 ha and an increase in cropping intensity
to 200% on the total project area of 104,000 ha. Provision is also made
under the proposed Bank loan for engineering studies which would evaluate
the economic feasibility of Stage II of the project and, if justified,
prepare the final designs, specifications and bid documents for construction
of the dam and appurtenant works. Stage I also includes a training program
for water management staff in the project area and technical assistance to
the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) in the fields of construction
management and irrigation systems operation. A total of about 668 man-months
of consultant services and technical assistance would be required under the
project.
ii.       A major Government objective in the agricultural sector is to
achieve self-sufficiency in basic foods, especially rice and corn. The
deficit in rice, the main staple food crop, has been a persistent problem
for the Philippines, and annual rice imports have averaged around 300,000
tons in recent years. According to the Bank's Agriculture Sector Survey,
an annual total of 50,000 ha of newly constructed or rehabilitated irri-
gation development on rice lands would have to be carried out over the
remainder of the decade to allow the country to achieve food grain self-
sufficiency.  Improved water control is a prerequisite to obtaining optimum
results from the new high yielding rice varieties. The proposed project
would be the fourth Bank-assisted project aimed at improving irrigation
for rice cropping on the island of Luzon. The first was the Upper Pampanga
River Project (Loan 637-PH), the second the Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation
Project (Loan/Credit 984/472-PH) and the third the Tarlac Irrigation Systems
Improvement Project (Loan 1080-PH). All of these are in the Central Luzon
basin, while the proposed project would be the first one in the Cagayan



- ii -
Valley of Northern Luzon. The Valley has consistently exported rice to
other regions of the Philippines, and has large resources of water and
suitable land which could be developed to increase rice production.
iii.      Total cost of Stage IB, Stage II engineering studies, technical
assistance to NIA and training program, all of which would be financed under
the proposed Bank loan, is estimated at P 579.6 million (US$84.0 million) of
which US$29.0 million, or approximately 35%, would be in foreign exchange.
The Bank would finance the foreign exchange component as well as US$13.0
million of local currency requirements. Civil works costing US$6.1 million
and equipment costing US$4.5 million would be put to international competitive
bidding. The remaining civil works would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding because of their nature and would be carried out by
locally advertised contract (US$22.7 million) or by force account (US$15.1
million). The Government's executing agency, the NIA, would employ consultants
to assist with the Stage II studies, the training program and technical assist-
ance in construction management and irrigation systems operation. The project
would take five years to execute.
iv.       The Government of the Philippines would be the borrower and NIA
would be the executing agency for the project, All elements of the project
would be implemented by NIA's newly established Special Projects Organization.
This body is well staffed with competent personnel and with the employment of
consultants would be able to implement the project successfully. An Agricul-
tural Development Coordinating Council (ADCC) would be established in the
project area to ensure coordination of the Government agencies providing
agricultural supporting services to the farmers.
v.        At full development of Stage I of the project, nine years after
commencement of work, annual paddy production from the project area is ex-
pected to reach 422,000 tons compared with a current level of production of
189,000 tons. The increased production would make a contribution to the
national campaign for self-sufficiency by providing enough rice to feed
about one and a half million people per year.
vi.       Under the Government's program of agrarian reform, sharecropping
has been abolished and title to land in holdings over 7 ha is now being
transferred to the cultivators. When the transfer is completed, tentatively
by the end of 1977, about 75% of the land in the project area will be farmed
by owner operators and the rest by leasehold tenants of small landlords.
Some 24,000 farm families cultivate the project area, working an average
unit of 3.1 ha. The project would increase the annual per capita income on
an average farm size from about US$105 at present to US$220 at full agricul-
tural development in 1984. These levels of income would still be low in
comparison with the national average which is projected to rise to US$315
by 1984, but would lead to a substantial narrowing of the income gap between
the project area and the rest of the country.



- iii -
vii.      The project would require a tighter cropping timetable to allow
for irrigation over a larger area and an increase in dry season cropping,
leading to a small rise in farm labor employment opportunities equivalent
to about 4,000 additional full time jobs. The economic rate of return of
the project is expected to be about 18%. The rate of return is sensitive
to increases in costs and delays in benefits, but even if costs should in-
crease by 20% and benefits be delayed by two years, the rate of return would
still be 12%.
viii.     The proposed project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$42.0 million
for a period of 25 years, including a seven-year grace period. The borrower
would be the Republic of the Philippines.






PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested assistance from
the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and IBRD in financing the first stage
of the Magat River Multipurpose Project in Northern Luzon. Stage I of
the project would provide a dependable water supply to irrigate a total
of 75,000 ha of rice in the wet season and 29,000 ha in the dry season. In
mid-1973 the ADB extended a US$6.6 million loan to assist in the rehabilita-
tion of 40,000 ha of the existing irrigation system under the provisions of
the Angat-Magat Integrated Agricultural Development Project (AMIADP). The
part of the project proposed for Bank assistance would supply irrigation to
35,000 ha and set the stage for implementing a second phase, consisting of
the development of storage for year-round irrigation and power generation.
1.02      The National Irrigation Administration (NIA) prepared the feasibil-
ity study for the project with the assistance of the U.S. Bureau of Reclama-
tion (USBR). Mr. G. Post (consultant) reviewed the feasibility findings on
the proposed Magat dam in September 1974. This report is based on the
findings of an appraisal mission which visited the Philippines in November/
December 1974, composed of Messrs. E.G. Giglioli, M.G. Saddington (Bank),
S.J. Baker and D.G. Knott (Consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
General
2
2.01      The Philippines covers some 297,000 km  scattered over more than
7,000 islands between the Pacific Ocean and the China Sea. The 45 largest
islands account for 98% of the area. The population is around 40 million
(1973), growing at a rate of 3% annually. Real GNP grew at 5% to 6% a year
during the last decade and by 10% in 1973 and an estimated 6% in 1974 due to
booming export earnings, strong recovery in agricultural and industrial pro-
duction for the domestic market and an improved investment climate. Major
economic problems are inflation, unequal income distribution and unemployment,
particularly in rural areas. Per capita GNP in 1972 was about US$220 1/.
2.02      Out of a total land area of some 30 million ha, more than half
is in forests and about one-third under cultivation or in plantations. About
2.0 to 2.5 million ha of fairly level land is still available for growing
crops, though some 1.0 million ha of this is cogon grassland which would
1/   World Bank Atlas, 1974.



- 2 -
be hard to reclaim. Bringing this additional land under cultivation would
be insufficient by itself to meet increasing food needs or to improve rural
incomes significantly. These goals call for increasing production from cur-
rently cultivated areas through yield improvements and increased cropping
intensity where water is available.
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture accounts for about one-third of net domestic product,
one-half of total employment and 70% of commodity export earnings. During
the 1960s the rate of growth of agricultural output accelerated gradually
and averaged 4.7% per year for the 1965-70 period, stimulated by the spread
of improved rice varieties. Employment in agriculture, on the other hand,
leveled off toward the end of the decade. Most of the increase in the labor
force between 1965 and 1970 was in non-agricultural employment, and the un-
employment rate in rural areas has remained high.
2.04      With the growth of agricultural output and little change in
employment, productivity per worker in agriculture increased between 1965
and 1970, while non-agricultural labor productivity remained much the same.
The result has been to narrow the gap in incomes between workers in agricul-
ture and in other sectors, although agricultural incomes are still substan-
tially lower. Farmers using improved technology, such as the new rice
varieties, have shared in the higher incomes, but those continuing in tra-
ditional ways have been largely unaffected.
2.05      There is considerable pressure of people on land in the Philippines,
where the population density is 131 people/km2 compared with the Asian aver-
age of 86. Lowland areas best suited for rice have been fully occupied for
over a decade. Migration is heavy from the overcrowded regions of Central
Luzon and the Visayas to the Cagayan Valley in northeastern Luzon and
Mindanao in the south.
2.06      Agricultural sector performance will be crucial in determining
whether the drive towards a more rapid but more equitable income expansion
succeeds. The major goals are self-sufficiency in cereals, particularly
rice and corn; expansion of agricultural exports; intensification of agrarian
reform; better conservation of natural resources; and strengthening of insti-
tutional support. Self-sufficiency in cereals is important not only to
strengthen the balance of payments, but also to raise incomes for much of the
rural population.
The Critical Role of Water Development
2.07      The Philippines cannot reach self-sufficiency in rice without
substantial investment in irrigation expansion and improvement. Performance
of irrigation systems in the country falls far short of their potential.



- 3 -
The Sector Survey 1/ estimates that, out of a total of 960,000 ha which could
be served by existing irrigation systems, only 630,000 ha are served in the
rainy season and 254,000 ha in the dry season. Almost all of the irrigated
area is devoted to rice. The NIA's gravity systems are the main component.
In addition, NIA has constructed or rehabilitated a substantial part of the
small privately operated communal systems, averaging 250-300 ha. The Irri-
gation Services Unit, now under NIA's administrative supervision, is respons-
ible for pump irrigation schemes. The 104 NIA gravity systems varying in
size from 130 ha to 83,000 ha, are usually run-of-the-river schemes with
insufficient control structures in the canals, inadequate drainage and little
provision for access. Even when the systems are new, water distribution is
uneven during the wet season and limited during the dry season. Maintenance
has been minimal due to shortages of staff and funds and the lack of access
roads for maintenance machinery. A vicious circle has developed by which
lack of maintenance discourages farmers from paying operation and maintenance
charges, which in turn precludes further maintenance.
2.08      This unsatisfactory situation began to change in the late 1960s.
The NIA was reorganized, more advanced irrigation designs were introduced
and much higher levels of water management aimed at. Simultaneously the
need for intensified agricultural supporting services on irrigation projects
was realized. The Bank-assisted Upper Pampanga River Irrigation Projecc
(UPRP) and the Angat-Magat Integrated Agricultural Development Project
(AMIADP), assisted by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), typify the new
approach. The pattern of rehabilitation, new construction and operation
exemplified by these projects is essential for large-scale rice production.
Indeed, to meet domestic rice demand in the 1970s, a program of rehabilita-
tion and new construction in the rice lands of 50,000 ha per year will be
needed for the remainder of the decade. The proposed project would thus
be entirely compatible with Government objectives for water resources
development.
Project Formulation
2.09      The 1973 Magat River Project feasibility report, prepared by NIA
with USBR assistance, proposed a storage dam on the river to provide year-
round irrigation to 104,000 ha and installation of a hydroelectric plant
with a capacity of 300 MW. The irrigation component consisted of expansion
and upgrading of the existing Magat (MARIS) and Siffu River Irrigation
Systems (SIFRIS) operated by NIA. In 1973 NIA, with ADB assistance,
initiated work on the Angat-Magat Project (AMIADP), which included pro-
visions for the rehabilitation and expansion of the existing MARIS to a
total of 40,000 ha.
1/   IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey, Philippines, May 2, 1973 (Report No.
39a-PH).



- 4 -
2.10      In view of the physical size, large estimated cost and long
construction period for the Magat project, NIA proposes a 10-year implement-
ation schedule (1976-1985) based on the following two stages:
(a)  Stage I would consist of the rehabilitation of the
present systems and construction of new facilities
to a total of 75,000 ha that could be served by
run-of-the-river diversion in the wet season. The
stage would take five years (1976-1980) and would be
subdivided into a Stage IA covering the 40,000 ha
of MARIS being rehabilitated and upgraded with ADB
assistance, and a Stage IB consisting of 35,000 ha
of rehabilitation and expansion proposed for Bank
assistance. The subdivision of Stage I is for
reasons of administrative convenience, because
of the different sources of financial assistance;
there are no technical or economic grounds for the
subdivision. During the first three years of Stage I
further engineering studies of the storage dam would
be carried out to determine its feasibility and, if
warranted, to prepare final designs, leading to the
issue of bid documents.
(b)  Stage II would take seven years (1979-1985) and would
be divided into two substages. Stage IIA would
include construction of additional irrigation facil-
ities to increase the command area to 104,000 ha and
construction of the storage dam, including all civil
works associated with the power component. Stage IIB
would consist of the provision and installation of
generating facilities, power lines and substations.
Details on the development of irrigation in Cagayan Valley, the role of the
project and its phasing are given in Annex 1.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project is located in Isabela province in the Cagayan Valley
of Northern Luzon, which accounts for about 11% of the area planted annually
to rice and 13% of total national production (Map No. 11463). About 30% of
the province's rice production is exported to Manila and Southern Luzon.
The mean rice yield in the region is about 10% above the national average.
This is due to the existence of irrigation systems in the area, and the
consequent rapid adoption of high yielding rice varieties. Irrigation is



- 5 -
concentrated in Isabela province which accounts for about 40% of regional
rice area and some 45% of the production. In the province improved rice
varieties are grown on about 60% of the area and give approximately 75% of
the production.
3.02      Stage I of the proposed project lies entirely in Isabela province.
Even with full development of Stage II, Isabela province would remain the
principal beneficiary as the irrigated area would barely touch Quirino
province, while just under half of the area flooded by the dam would be in
Nueva Vizcaya province. There are a number of small towns with populations
between 5,000 and 10,000 people scattered throughout the area. The larger
towns, including the provincial capital of Ilagan which lies just outside
the project area, provide banking, storage and processing facilities as well
as supplies of inputs to the surrounding agricultural area. The project
area is connected by national highway to Central Luzon and Manila in the
south and the port of Aparri on the Babuyan Channel to the north.
Climate
3.03      The climate in the project area is tropical and monsoonal.  Warm
temperatures throughout the year allow a twelve-month growing season with
irrigation. About 75% of the average annual rainfall of 1,900 mm falls in
the six-month period of July through December, with the heaviest rain in
November. The Cagayan Valley and Ilocos regions of Northern Luzon show
the highest frequency of passing typhoon centers in the Philippines. Over
a 23-year period between 1948 and 1970 the area was hit by an annual average
of 3.2 typhoons, with the highest frequency between July and November. These
storms may cause flooding and damage to crops and engineering works. The
rainfall, together with river flows in the wet season, is generally adequate
for a single rice crop. Dry season cropping, however, entails considerably
more risk and irrigation is essential for an assured crop. Further cllmatic
details are presented in Annex 2.
Topography, Drainage and Soils
3.04      The project area is located on alluvial terraces in the flood
plains of the Cagayan and Magat rivers and tributary streams. It is bounded
on the north by the Mallig river, on the east by the Cagayan river and on
the south and west by the foothills of the Caraballo mountains and the
Cordillera Central respectively.  The slope of the land is from west to
northeast. In general the land is level, although some of the older terraces
along the western edge of the project area have eroded significantly and
show rolling topography. Drainage problems exist in the project area because
of high rainfall intensities and flat relief. The problem is more serious
In the existing irrigated areas as the surface drainage facilities cannot
deal with the additional water provided by irrigation. Natural drainage
has also been restricted by constructing highways and roads with inadequate
culverts. Low areas along the main rivers are subject to short periods of
inundation from backwaters from overflowing streams. Water velocities are
low and cause little damage to structures or land, but there is some crop
loss, depending on the stage of growth at the time of flooding.



- 6 -
3.05      Soils in the project area are predominantly dark grey or brown
clays or clay loams, with angular blocky structures, medium to fine textures,
slightly acidic reactions and slow internal drainage. They are generally
low in organic matter and deficient in available phosphorus. All soils
have good cation holding capacity and can retain appreciable amounts of
nutrients for plant growth. The soils are well suited for rice, which has
been grown in the project area for many years without problems.
Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.06      Since 1972 the Government has pursued a program of agrarian reform
aimed at the transfer of land ownership to tenant farmers on rice and corn
lands. Presidential Decree No. 27 (PD 27), the basic legislation of the new
program, provides for the transfer to the tenant, whether sharecropper or
leaseholder, of the land he tills up to 3 ha in an irrigated area and 5 ha
in a rainfed area. According to PD 27, the landlord may retain up to 7 ha
if he tills the land himself. Since there are some 2 million rice and corn
farmers on about 4 million ha, of which less than 1 million ha are irrigated,
there is little prospect of achieving the 5 ha rainfed and 3 ha irrigated
family farms nationwide. Furthermore, some 85% of the landlords have holdings
of less than 7 ha. The Government does not want to antagonize small landowners
and is looking for an equitable solution. The Department of Agrarian Reform
(DAR) plans to complete the transfer to tenants of all land in holdings over
24 ha by mid-1975. In November 1974 the Government decided to proceed with
the transfer of land in holdings between 24 and 7 ha.
3.07      DAR surveys show that some 24,000 farm families, averaging six
members for a total of about 144,000 people, live in the project area. The
average farm unit is 3.1 ha with about 80% of the farms, covering 66% of the
area, falling between 1 and 5 ha. The farm size distribution is as follows:
Farm Size                 Farm Holdings      Cultivated Area
(ha)                       --X              ____…
Less than 1                       4                  1
1 -  3                     51                 30
3 -  5                     32                  36
5 - 10                     10                  21
More than 10                      3                 12
100                100
According to DAR data the 75,000 ha in the project area were owned by some
16,600 people, 86% of whom held less than 7 ha. However this group accounted
for only 56% of the land. Some 14% of the owners accounted for 33,000 ha or



- 7 -
44% of the area. There are about 14,000 tenant farmers on 40,000 ha in the
project area. The transfer of landlord holdings larger than 7 ha will involve
some 7,000 tenants on 20,000 ha.  Including about 10,000 present owner-operators
on 35,000 ha, when the land transfer is complete some 17,000 owner-operators
or 70 percent of the farmers in the project area will cultivate 55,000 ha or
75 percent of the land. The remaining 7,000 tenant farmers on holdings under
7 ha would no longer be sharecroppers but would have written lease agreements
providing for payment of fixed rents (Annex 3).
Existing Irrigation Facilities
3.08      About 50,000 ha of land in the project area fall within the
existing Magat River Irrigation System (MARIS) and the Siffu River Irrigation
System (SIFRIS) operated by NIA. The two national systems were completed
in the 1960s. Although designed to serve an area of 50,000 ha, the two
systems only irrigate 40,000 ha because of a lack of terminal facilities.
Irrigation in the dry season is limited to some 19,000 ha, partly because of
lower flows in the Magat and Siffu rivers and partly because of inadequate
irrigation facilities. The systems suffer from poor distribution networks,
severe drainage deficiencies and lack of access roads. In addition to the
two national systems some 2,000 ha are irrigated by privately owned pumps
and communal irrigation systems built by groups of farmers with or without
financial assistance from the Government.
Agricultural Production
3.09      Rice grown by transplanting is by far the most important crop
in the area. Tobacco and corn are grown on a small scale on the coarser
textured and better draining soils immediately adjacent to the river banks.
On about 90% of the project area soil and drainage conditions are unsuitable
for crops other than rice. The great majority of farmers in the irrigated
areas uses improved rice varieties, while in the rainfed areas farmers rely
wholly on the lower yielding, but hardier local varieties. In the irrigated
areas the average paddy yield is 2.2 ton/ha in the wet season and 2.3 ton/ha
in the dry season. The yield of rainfed paddy averages 1.6 ton/ha. The
low yields are due to unsatisfactory water management, difficulties in
getting the crop out of the fields because of lack of roads, and poor farming
practices such as insufficient use of inputs and untimeliness of operations.
3.10      In rainfed areas most farmers rely entirely on animal power for
land preparation, while in the irrigated areas machinery is used for land
preparation on about 50% of the wet season crop and 70% of the dry season
crop. Mechanical cultivation is mostly done by four wheel tractors and
rotary tillers operated by contractors. Threshing of the rainfed crop is
practically wholly manual while mechanical threshers are used on about
60% of the irrigated wet season crop and on 70% of the dry season crop.
Most of the equipment is operated by contractors.



Transportation
3.11      The project area is traversed by National Highway 5 linking it
with the port of Aparri on the Babuyan channel to the north and to Central
Luzon and Manila to the south. There is a limited network of largely
unpaved provincial and municipal roads serving the area. The provincial
government is engaged in a program of replacing existing wooden bridges
with permanent concrete structures. There is no railroad service in the
area. UJnder the project, feeder roads would be rehabilitated and new roads
constructed to handle the increased production.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The NIA completed construction of the first stage of 'XARIS in
1957 and extended the system in 1966 to serve a total of 40,500 ha. The
10,000 ha SIFRIS was built in 1960. The NIA is currently rehabilitating
and improving 39,610 ha of the MARIS service area with the assistance of
ADB under the Angat-Magat Integrated Agricultural Development Project (AMIADP)
and is extending irrigation to an additional 390 ha. This constitutes Stage
IA of the Magat Project.
4.02      The project proposed for Bank financing would upgrade the remaining
890 ha of MARIS, 10,000 ha of SIFRIS and 1,300 ha of small communal irrig-
ation systems in the MARIS service area to standards adopted in the Tarlac
Irrigation Systems Improvement Project (Loan 1080-PH) and would extend the
MARIS and SIFRIS to include an additional 22,810 ha of currently rainfed
rice land.  As Stage IB of the Magat Project, it would include:
(a) Modification of the existing MARIS diversion dam;
(b) Rehabilitation of two existing NIA irrigation and drainage
systems and several local communal systems serving a total
area of about 12,190 ha;
(c)  Extension of the NIA systems to serve an additional area of
about 22,810 ha;
(d). Upgrading or construction of a total of about 830 km of
project roads;
(e) Construction of an air strip, access roads and a bridge
across the Magat river near the MARIS diversion dam; and
(f) Procurement of vehicles and equipment.



The project would also provide for detailed engineering studies of the
lagat dam and reservoir, a water management training program and technical
assistance to NIA in systems operation and construction management. Con-
sultants would be engaged to assist the NIA with the engineering studies
and the water management training program. A detailed description of the
project works is given in Annex 4.
Project Works
4.03      The MARIS diversion dam would be raised 5 m to command a larger
service area. The existing outlet works on the right abutment of the
dam would be enlarged and new outlet works would be constructed on the left
abutment. The modified diversion dam would also provide daily regulation
of power releases in Stage II of the project. Access roads and a bridge
over the Magat river below the diversion dam would be built to facilitate
construction and operation of the MARIS extension. An airstrip would be
constructed near the diversion dam to allow quick access to the project
area from Manila.
4.04      The remainder of the MARIS not included in the ANIADP, the SIFRIS
and 1,300 ha of communal irrigation systems would be rehabilitated and
upgraded by repairing existing canals and structures and providing additional
control structures and turnouts to manage water deliveries more effectively.
New irrigation works would be constructed to serve about 22,810 ha of rainfed
lands adjacent to the existing service areas. Adequate control structures
and turnouts would be provided on the canal systems for efficient water
control and delivery.
4.05      The project would be brought to the same standards of on-farm
water distribution and drainage as the Tarlac Irrigation Systems Improvement
Project (Annex 4). An assurance was obtained that NIA would take all
necessary measures to ensure complete compatibility of standards and facil-
ities between Stages IA and IB of the project. Rice has been grown in the
project area for many years and the land is reasonably level and well laid
out with little fragmentation of land holdings. Therefore, no land level-
ing, boundary realignment or land consolidation would be provided. The
canal systems would have a turnout for each 10 ha from which farm ditches
built as part of the project would provide direct delivery to about 80% of
all holdings. Each 10 ha block would also be served by a collector drain.
All canals would be unlined. Small buildings would be provided for Water
Management Technologists operating 500 ha of irrigated land apiece
(para 5.04) and rice drying floors of 400 m2 would be provided near or
adjacent to the buildings. Some existing access roads would be improved and,
where needed, new ones would be built. Roads for operation and maintenance
would be built along the major canals and laterals.



- 10 -
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.06      The MARIS and SIFRIS get their water supplies from separate river
sources using separate diversion facilities and conveyance systems. In
addition to serving 8,400 ha of the MARIS extension area, the North Main
Canal would provide a link from the MARIS to the SIFRIS diversion dam,
making it possible to provide surplus water from the MARIS to SIFRIS in
times of need. There is no regulatory storage on either system at present,
and less than 40% of the area would have water during the dry season. A
full water supply for two crops a year could be provided under Stage II of
the project (para 2.10).
4.07      The MARIS gets its water supply from the Magat river.  Stream
flow records are available for a 17-year period, and the record was
extended an additional 7 years using rainfall and by correlating with an
upstream river gauge. Stream flow records of the Siffu river at a site
below the diversion dam which serves the SIFRIS are available for a 24-year
period. The runoff of the river at the diversion dam was estimated from
the stream flow record by the drainage area proportion method. The discharge
records of the two rivers are long enough to cover known critical water
supply periods and are considered to be reliable.
4.08      Water requirements for the project were based on two rice crops
per year. Taking into account the higher farm irrigation efficiencies
expected after project development, anticipated conveyance and operational
losses and effective rainfall, annual diversion requirements are estimated
to total 2.41 m, of which 1.64 m would be required in the dry season. The
proposed cropping calendar would maximize the use of rainfall for both wet
and dry season crops.
4.09      The size of the project area was determined from simulated
operation studies using the 20 year period of adjusted discharge records
at each diversion and the estimated seasonal water requirements for rice.
The irrigable areas selected for development in Stage I of the project and
the currently irrigated areas are as follows:
Stage I Service Area
Stage IA           Stage IB
MARIS         MARIS        SIFRIS        Total
Selected Irrigable Area (ha)
Wet Season              40,000        23,000       12,000       75,000
Dry Season              25,000           -          4,000       29,000
Currently Irrigated Area (ha)
Wet Season              32,000           -          8,350       40,350
Dry Season              16,000           -          3,400       19,400



- 11 -
There are no water rights on the Magat and Siffu rivers that would interfere
with either Stage I or II of the project. Water abstraction rights upstream
of the diversion dams total less than one m3/sec. The principal water rights
in the two rivers are already vested in the MARIS and SIFRIS. Assurances
were obtained that the necessary water rights would be granted to NIA and no
other water rights which could adversely affect the project's water supply
would be granted, except for domestic use.
4.10      Tests of water samples from the Moagat and Siffu rivers show good
water quality with total dissolved solids under 200 ppm.  The waters are of
low salinity, slightly alkaline and are free of toxic elements.  Water in
the Magat river shows an excessively high level of turbidity.  However, this
does not appear to have had any adverse effects on the soils or crops during
the 20-odd years of use.
Status of Engineering
4.11      Project planning studies, designs and estimates of the irrigation
and drainage systems and associated works were carried out by NIA with
assistance from the USBR. Surveys were made of the existing main canals
and larger laterals, and cross sections were taken at 20 to 100 m intervals
to determine excavation quantities. Rehabilitation costs of the remaining
canals and laterals and the drainage system were based on unit cost estimates
obtained for a sample area within MARIS, for which detailed mapping and
designs were prepared. Surveys were also made of the principal canals in
extension areas to determine construction quantities. Existing 1:50,000
scale maps were used to determine lateral locations and costs were based
on unit costs for a sample area within the South Low Canal service area.
Farm ditch and drain requirements within the rotational areas were also
determined by the sample area method. Canal structure requirements in the
rehabilitation areas were determined in the field by NIA inspectors and
costs were estimated for repair, replacement or additions. Structure
requirements in the extension areas were determined according to basic
irrigation design practices. Operation and maintenance roads were based on
canal capacity and needs within the service area, and were checked in the
field to ensure that adequate access to project works would be provided.
Needed work on river diversion structures was determined from field inspection
of each structure. Sufficient investigations have been made to assure that
suitable materials are available for construction of canal embankments and
maintenance roadways.
4.12      Enlarged rectified aerial photographs of the project service area
at a scale of 1:10,000 were completed by contract in 1971 for a total area
of 93,000 ha. These photographs were used in preparing the base maps for
land classification use. Detailed topograph c mapping of the Stage IA area
was initiated in November 1973 and is scheduled for completion in June 1975.
NIA is extending the mapping to cover the Stage IB area of the project. Final
designs and estimates of the irrigation and drainage systems cannot be initiated
until adequate topographic mapping is available.  Topography of tne tARIS



- 12 -
diversion dam was completed in 1971 at a scale of 1:2,000 with a contour
interval of 2 m.
4.13      Work on the irrigation service areas would begin in 1977, although
road construction and improvement work would start in mid-1976. All project
works are expected to be completed by mid-1980 (Chart No. 9531). The
first phase of the Stage II engineering studies and tests would be finished
by January 1977. The second phase covering the final designs, estimates
and preparation of tender documents for the Magat dam and power plant would
start in June 1977 and be completed by mid-1978 to allow contract award for
construction of Magat dam by December 1978 (Chart No. 9684). Water management
training would continue through 1980.
Engineering Studies: Stage II
4.14      According to the 1973 NIA/USBR study (para 2.09), Stage II of the
project calls for the construction on the Magat river of a storage dam and
power station about 5.5 km upstream of the MARIS diversion works. The dam
would be about 1.74 km long at a crest elevation of 200 m, with a central
concrete gravity spillway section about 790 m long, with a maximum height
above foundation of some 115 m, which would be flanked on both sides by
rockfill embankments.  The reservoir would flood about 4,500 ha of land of
which only 600 ha are cropland.  A small hamlet of 500 people would have to
be relocated.  There would also be a smaller earth and rockfill dam across
the Baligatan creek.  While preliminary field work has shown that foundation
conditions at the site are capable of supporting a dam of the proposed
magnitude, additional, more thorough investigations of the dam and reservoir
geology are needed. Engineering studies are also required to develop more
detailed design and cost data upon which to base a final economic evaluation.
Consultants would be engaged to assist NIA with the studies (para 5.05).
4.15      The first phase of the proposed engineering studies would be
concerned with collection of additional geological information on the dam
site and reservoir, further hydrological investigations of the river regime
and a review of reservoir sizing to maximize net project benefits. The
command area to be served by the dam would be determined, together with the
feasibility of a combined gravity and pump irrigation canal to serve about
7,000 ha east of the Siffu South Main Canal. The information gathered would
allow an assessment of the economic feasibility of constructing the dam and
power station. The second phase of the engineering studies, which would depend
on the outcome of the first phase, would consist of the preparation of final
designs, cost estimates and tender documents for construction of the dam
and appurtenant structures. Preliminary estimates indicate that about 136
man-months of consultant time would be required for phase one and 448 man-
months for phase two. Assurances were obtained that the results of the
evaluation phase of the studies would be subject to Bank review, and that
the second phase would be implemented only if the Government and the Bank
agree that the evaluation justifies proceeding with the final designs
for Stage II.



- 13 -
4.16      The evaluation phase of the studies would be completed by January
1977 and the detailed engineering phase by mid-1978. This timetable would
permit the contractor to start preliminary work on the dam by mid-1979.
The 1973 feasibility study estimated that about 550,000 tons of cement would
be required for construction of the Magat dam.  NIA, in association with
other interested agerncies of the Government, is currently studying the alter-
natives of transporting the cement from existing Central Luzon sources and
storing it in silos on the site or developing a new cement factory in Cagayan
Valley. The results of the study, including costs of the various alter-
natives, timetables and proposed methods of implementation, would be
completed concurrently with the first phase of the engineering studies
(January 1977). The Special Projects Organization of NIA would be primarily
responsible for the engineering studies with the assistance of consultants.
There would be close coordination with the National Power Corporation (NPC)
on the power aspects of the studies. Further details of the proposed Stage
II engineering studies are provided in Annex 6.
Water Management Training
4.17      Irrigation efficiencies on NIA's gravity systems are low due to
lack of terminal facilities, poor maintenance and inadequate staff. NIA
has recognized the need for more and better water management staff and is
putting a Water Management Technologist (WMT) in charge of every 500 ha of
irrigated land. The newly recruited staff is not well versed in water
management, crop production aspects of irrigation or in methods of communi-
cation with farmers. To remedy the situation in the Bank-assisted Central
Luzon projects, a water management training program is being established
under the Tarlac project (Loan 1080-PH) to turn out about 300 WMTs in five
years. A similar training program is proposed for the Magat project. About
150 WMTs would be required for Stage I of the project.
4.18      The training program would be based on pilot water management
units of 500 ha which would be established in each of the project's three
operational districts (para 5.04). Theoretical training would be reinforced
by putting every trainee through a range of field situations on the pilot
units where he could apply his new knowledge. The training staff would be
drawn mostly from regular NIA personnel with extensive technical knowledge
and field experience. Provision would be made for consultant assistance as
required. The training facilities centered on the pilot units would continue
to provide refresher training after the initial five years and would become
the regional center for training water management staff.for Northern Luzon,
which has different climatic and growing seasons from Central Luzon.
Technical Assistance to NIA
4.19      The newly created Special Projects Organization of NIA is currently
responsible for carrying out the rehabilitation and extension of irrigation
facilities on 234,000 ha of projects being assisted by either the ADB or the



- 14 -
Bark Group. If the irrigation component of the recently financed Rural
Development Project in 'Mindoro (Loan 1102-PH) and the present project are
included, the area would total nearly 300,000 ha. The Organization will also
be responsible for the eventual operation of all these projects. While NIA
has developed a cadre of engineers with experience in building sizable proj-
ects, the accelerated pace of irrigation development and the expansion of
activities to areas outside of Central Luzon are expected to put a substan-
tial strain on NIA's construction management and planning capabilities. NIA
has taken steps through the appointment of WMTs and water management training
programs to improve water use efficiency at field level, but there is a
lack of expertise in systems operation and maintenance, without which the
newly built systems will not give the results expected of them.
4.20      The proposed technical assistance program would provide the services
of a construction management engineer and a systems operation and maintenance
engineer to the Special Projects Organization for a period of three years.
The construction management engineer would provide guidance to NIA staff in
scheduling construction activities, setting up monitoring procedures and
developing future construction programs. The systems operation engineer
would assist NIA staff in preparation of water delivery schedules and in
their implementation. Both engineers would assist in on-the-job training
of NIA personnel. Further details are provided in Annex 7.
Cost Estimates
4.21      Total project costs of Stage IB and Stage II engineering studies
are estimated at US$84.0 million, of which US$29.0 million or 35% is foreign
exchange. Project costs are based on quantity estimates from feasibility
designs and unit prices prevailing in the Central Luzon projects in mid-1975,
which the Government team provided during negotiations. Unit prices for
equipment, materials and supplies are based on recent quotations received by
NIA. NIA's costs for design and construction supervision are included under
engineering, while consultants' fees and specialist services are included in
the cost estimates for the engineering studies, the water management training
and the technical assistance. A physical contingency factor based on the
degree of investigations completed to date was applied. It amounts to 20%
for the irrigation and drainage system, 15% for the Stage II engineering
studies and 10% for the water management training program. Costs due to
expected price increases amount to about 28% of total project costs and
assume the following annual inflation rates:
Annual Inflation Rate (%)
1975  1976  1977-79  1980
Civil Works                 16    14    12        10
Equipment & Services        12    10      8        7



- 15 -
4.22      Details of the project costs are presented in Annex 8 and are
summarized below:
Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
--- Pesos Million----  ----US$ Million------ ---%----
Irrigation System         213.7    89.7   303.4   30.9    13.0    43.9    30
Operation & Maintenance
Equipment                0.7    10.3    11.0    0.1       1.5      1.6    94
Engineering Studies
Stage II                13.4    23.7    37.1    2.0       3.4      5.4    63
Water Management Training  1.3       1.9     3.2    0.2      0.3      0.5    60
Technical Assistance        0.6      2.2     2.8    0.1      0.3      0.4    75
Base Cost Estimate    229.7   127.8   357.5   33.3    18.5    51.8    36
Physical Contingencies    38.5    21.5    60.0    5.5        3.2      8.7    37
Expected Price Increases 112.9    49.2   162.1   16.2        7.3    23.5    31
Total Project Cost        381.1   198.5   579.6   55.0    29.0    84.0    35
Financing
4.23      The proposed Bank loan of US$42 million would finance the full
foreign exchange costs and about 24% of the local costs of the project.  It
would cover 50% of total project costs. The Government would provide the
remaining P 290 million (US$42 million) to NIA out of annual budget
appropriations. To ensure the continuous and timely flow of funds, an
assurance was obtained that the Government would set up a special fund
for the project which would be replenished at monthly intervals to a level
equivalent to the estimated requirements for the next three months. Estab-
lishment of the special fund would be a condition of effectiveness of the
loan.
Procurement
4.24      Equipment and vehicles for force account construction, operation
and maintenance, and for the Stage II studies and the water management training,
costing about US$4.5 million would be procured after international compe-
titive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference limited
to 15% of the cif price of imported goods, r.r the custom duty, whichever is
lower, would be extended to local manufactuiers in the evaluation of bids.
Local shopping is appropriate for off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$10,000 each because the advantages of itnternational competitive bidding
would be clearly outweighed by the administrative costs involved. The total
cost of such items would not exceed US$300,000. Bank staff have reviewed the
local procedures and they are acceptable. There is adequate competition and
foreign firms can participate. A detailed list of equipment requirements is
given in Annex 9.



- 16 -
4.25      Works on the modification of the MARIS diversion dam and intake
structures (US$6.1 million) would be let as one contract, subject to inter-
national competitive bidding. Works on the project service area (US$37.8
million) would be scattered over a wide area and include a large proportion
of rehabilitation works. These would have to be planned and executed on
short notice to avoid the growing season and bad weather and would have to
be phased with irrigation releases. When similar works were advertised
under the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP) (Loan 637-PH) the NIA failed
to attract even local contractors. NIA is carrying out all work in
Stage IA of the project by force account and in the process should build up
a substantial construction capability, which would be available for employ-
ment in Stage IB. It is unrealistic, however, for NIA to expect to undertake
all work in the project by force account. An assurance was obtained that
NIA would investigate ways of expanding the execution of civil works by
contract, so that the amount of work done by force account would not exceed
40% of the total cost of the work. Competitive bidding in accordance with
local procedures is appropriate for the balance of the work. Bank staff
have reviewed the local procedures and they are acceptable. There is
potentially adequate competition and foreign firms can participate.
Disbursements
4.26      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the cif
cost of directly imported equipment, 100% against the ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured equipment and 65% for imported equipment procured
locally. For services of consultants and for technical assistance, disburse-
ments would cover 100% of foreign exchange cost or 60% of total cost. Dis-
bursements for civil works would be at 42% of certified monthly progress
payments or expenditures. For civil works contractors' mobilization and
equipment, disbursements would be at 100% of foreign exchange cost. It is
expected that disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1981, approximately
one year after the end of construction. An estimated schedule of expenditures
on the project and a semi-annual disbursement schedule are given in Annex 10.
Accounts and Audit
4.27      The NIA is a Government agency and its accounts are audited
annually by the Government's Commission on Audit. Assurances were obtained
that NIA would maintain separate accounts for the project. After audit by
the Commission on Audit the project accounts, together with the auditor's
comments, would be sent to the Bank within four months of the close of each
financial year.
Environmental Effects
4.28      There is no schistosomiasis in the project area or in Northern
Luzon generally. Malaria is effectively controlled by a Government program



- 17 -
of house spraying with residual insecticides. The few cases reported are
brought into the project area from the sparsely populated, mountainous
forest regions bordering the Cagayan Valley. The principal public health
problems in the area are protein deficiencies in preschool age children,
enteric diseases and tuberculosis. The proposed project would have little
impact on these.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
5.01      NIA was created in 1964 and given responsibility for developing,
operating and maintaining all national irrigation systems in the Philippines.
NIA is also authorized by Government to levy and collect water rates from
beneficiaries of the national irrigation systems to defray operation and
maintenance (O&M) costs. The Covernment finances the NIA through the sale
of bonds or from appropriations. A Board of Directors is responsible for
the agency, and the Adninistrator, who is appointed by the President of the
Philippines, handles nanagement.
5.02      NIA is in the process of being reorganized to meet the requirements
of the Government's policy of accelerated irrigation development. The in-
tegration of the major foreign-assisted projects under a Special Projects
Organization Office headed by an Assistant Administrator is one of the first
results of the reorganization. The Special Projects Organization (Chart No.
9533(R)) would also be responsible for execution and operation of the Magat
project.
5.03      Day-to-day responsibility for construction of Stage IA rests with
an Assistant Project Manager (APM) stationed in San Mateo. He reports to
the kMrlADP Project Manager in Quezon City on all matters concerning Stage
IA. The APM would also be responsible for construction of Stage IB and
wou'd report on all matters concerning the Stage to the NIA Regional
Engineer, Cagayan Valley who would be appointed Project Manager of the
ilagat River Mlultipurpose Project. Both Project Managers would report to
the Assistant Administrator for Special Projects who would be in overall
charge of the A4IADP and Magat projects (Chart No. 9534). NIA would
provide all the additional support staff and facilities required to allow
the APM to meet his wider responsibilities. There would be three construction
divisions under the APM: the first building Stage IA in the existing MARIS;
the second buildlng the extension of M4ARIS under Stage IB; and the third
building the portion of Stage IB centered on the SIFRIS. The establishment
by NIA of a project organization satisfactory to the Bank would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
5.04      For O&I purposes the distinction between Stages IA and IB would
no longer be necessary and the entire project area of 75,000 ha would be
administered by a single Project Manager (Chart No. 9535). NIA would



- 18 -
establish four support divisions, dealing with administration, equiprnent,
agricultural development and operation of the MARIS diversion dam and main
canal. The project area would be divided into three Irrigation Districts
based on Santiago, San Mateo and Roxas. Each district would be divided into
50-ha irrigation units. A ditch tender would supervise two such units (100
ha), while a WMT would control five ditch tenders (500 ha). A Supervisor
would be responsible for a water management division which includes five
WMTs (2,500 ha). Three to four divisions would constitute a zone under a
Superintendent. The proposed Santiago and Roxas Irrigation Districts would be
divided into two zones, while the San Mateo District would have three zones.
Details of the organization are given in Annex 11.
5.05      The engineering studies for Stage II would be carried out by NIA
staff under the control of the Project Manager, who would be able to call
for assistance on specialized NIA units and on other Government agencies. A
consulting firm (para 4.14) would assist NIA with the study and, if warranted,
would also prepare detailed drawings, cost estimates and bid documents for
construction of the Magat dam (Annex 6). In view of the demanding timetable
proposed for the studies, the consultants would need to be on the site by the
end of March 1976. Assurances were obtained that NIA would engage engineering
consultants for the Stage II studies, on terms of reference and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
5.06      The Director appointed to supervise the Central Luzon water
management traning program would also be in charge of the program proposed
for the Magat project. A Field Supervisor would be attached to each of the
three Irrigation Districts to be in day-to-day charge of the program. Train-
ing personnel would be drawn mainly from well qualified and experienced O&M
staff and from specialized NIA units. Provision is made under the loan for
consultant assistance, should it be required.
Supporting Agricultural Services
5.07      An Agricultural Development Coordinating Council (ADCC) was
established in the UPRP to coordinate the work of the various agencies
providing services to the farmers (Annex 12). The arrangement appears to
be working well in UPRP and a similar organization is being established for
the Tarlac project. Assurances were obtained that an ADCC based on
Isabela province would be established for the proposed project.
5.08      A total of 152 agricultural graduates from a number of Government
agencies provide extension services to farmers in the municipalities covering
the project area. The Bureau of Agricultural Extension and the Department
of Agrarian Reform supply the majority. The ratio of extension workers to
farmers is about 1:300. Under the project the extension coverage would be
strengthened by addition of the water management staff (para 5.04) and there
would be better coordination through the ADCC (para 5.07).



- 19 -
5.09      Current fertilizer consumption in the project area amounts to
less than 12,000 tons per year, with sulphate of ammonia accounting for about
half the total. At full development the project area would require some
24,000 tons of fertilizer, on the basis of 60 kg/ha nitrogen and 30 kg/ha
phosphate per crop season. Existing supply channels would handle the
increased demand without difficulty. The certified rice seed requirement
at full development would total 2,100 tons per year and no problems are
expected in obtaining the amount.
5.10      The substantial increase in the irrigated area, higher cropping
intensity and better farming practices resulting from the project would
require a large increase in production credit. Under the agrarian reform
and Masagana programs the Government has strengthened the credit institutions
and eased credit to small farmers, previously dependent on the landlords
for their requirements. A system of "supervised credit" is used which
includes the provision of technical services to the borrower to ensure that
recommended practices, such as variety, fertilizer and agrochemical inputs,
are adopted. Under the system no collateral is required. During 1973/74,
agricultural loans granted to farmers in the project area by the Rural Banks
and the Philippine National Bank amounted to P 28.0 million (US$4.1 million).
At full project development, production credit requirements are estimated to
be about P 81.0 million (US$11.7 million). The existing credit institutions
are expected to be able to meet the requirement.
5.11      In the Bank-assisted Central Luzon projects the UPRP's Agricultural
Development Division is responsible for monitoring the deployment of extension
and water management personnel, pace of land reform, cropping patterns, use
of inputs and credits, incidence of pests and diseases, etc. Assurances
were obtained that NIA would establish within six months of loan signature
an Agricultural Development Division for the Magat project similar to the
one in UPRP.
Recovery of Cost
5.12      Republic Act No. 3601 establishing NIA gave it the authority
to "collect from the users of each irrigation system constructed by it such
fees as may be necessary to finance the continuous operation of the system
and reimburse within a period of not less than twenty-five years the cost
of construction thereof". NIA's record of irrigation fee collection has
shown a steady improvement over the last few years. The total collection
has risen from P 4.8 million in FY69 to P 9.2 million in FY74. Over the
same period the collection rate as a percentage of fees charged has
improved from about 50% to about 66%. The better recovery is due to
improved and more timely billing, the use of more collectors, rehabilitation
of some of the irrigation systems, withholding of water from delinquents and
incentive collection bonuses.
5.13      Although the 66% collection rate is an improvement, it is still
low. However, sufficient information is currently not available on the cost
of the facilities or the level of service provided by the NIA systems to



20 -
determine whether the rates charged are appropriate. It is possible that in
some cases farmers are charged for water they do not actually receive, and
therefore they might be justified ir, not paying. There are also indications
that collection rates are better where NIA is providing a reasonable level
of service. Thus NIA's program of irrigation improvement should result in
improved collections. The first phase of the National Irrigation Systems
Improvement Study (NISIS), financed under the Tarlac project, will inventory
the national irrigation systems and when the results are available, expected
by the end of 1975, it should be possible to make a better judgment as to
the appropriateness of the water charges and whether NIA's collections have
been adequate. An assurance was obtained that NIA would discuss with the
Bank ways of improving collection of water charges based on the results of
the NISIS.
5.14      Irrigation fees on the national irrigation schemes have recently
been raised to the equivalent of two cavans of paddy per ha in the wet season
and three cavans in the dry season, to be applied uniformly to all national
irrigation systems. At the existing Government support price for paddy the
new fees equal P 100 and P 150/ha respectively. These rates would cover
the anntual project O&M costs, which are estimated at P 100/ha/annum (US$14.5),
but would contribute little toward capital recovery.
5.15      As an exception to the uniform  rate policy the Government has
agreed to raise rates on the Bank-assisted Central Luzon projects to the
equivalent of 3.5 cavans of paddy/ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans in
the dry season. NIA proposes to apply these rates to Stage I of the Magat
project. This would be equivalent to P 175 and P 220/ha in the wet and dry
seasons, respectively, or a weighted average of P 260/ha for a cropping
intensity of 139%. Such a rate would be reached gradually over a period of
five years from completion of construction. The rates to be introduced would
vary between 12% and 17% of farmers' incremental net value of production
(before water charges) due to the project, depending on present and future
cropping intensities. The new rates would therefore be within the farmers'
repayment capacity and yet permit NIA to recover a substantial amount of the
investment in the project. At a discount rate of 10% the present worth of
such a charge over the 50-year life of the project would be P 133 million.
The present worth of the project cost 1i plus O&M costs at 10% is P 394
million, indicating a recovery ratio of about 34%.
5.16      To ensure sound operation and maintenance practices and an
equitable contribution by the beneficiaries toward the recovery of the
capital cost of the project, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the NIA would make annual budgetary provisions to supply
the funds necessary for operation and maintenance of the
project. Total annual expenditure for operation and
maintenance in 1975 constant prices is estimated at P 3.0
million beginning in 1980, rising to P 7.5 million (US$1.1
million) thereafter;
1/   Cost of investments for the entire Stage I project service area of P 495.7
million excluding price contingencies. In this analysis both costs and
revenues are evaluated at constant prices.



- 2 4-_
(b) irrigation fees would be levied to provide NIA with
sufficient funds to maintain and operate the project and
to allow for the recovery of investment cost within not
more than 50 years, taking into account farmers' incentives
and capacity to pay.  A gradual increase in irrigation fees
over a period of five years from completion of construction
to a level equivalent to about 3.5 cavans of paddy per ha
in the wet season and 4.4 cavans in the dry season would
meet the requirement; and
(c) the NIA would take all necessary actions to ensure full
and prompt collection of the irrigation fees.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOtES
Production
6.01      Upon completion of Stage I the area of irrigated land would
increase to 75,000 ha, of which at present about 40,350 ha are irrigated
and 34,650 ha are rainfed during the wet season. Although Stage I would
not provide storage for dry season irrigation water, better water control
would allow the present dry season irrigated area of 19,400 ha to be expanded
to 29,000 ha, increasing cropping intensity from 126% to 139%. Better water
control, improved extension services and expanded credit facilities would
encourage increased plantings of high yielding rice varieties, heavier fer-
tilizer applications and greater use of crop protection chemicals. The use
of machinery for land preparation and threshing would increase to meet more
exacting crop calendars. It is expected that at full agricultural development
in 1984 almost all threshing would be mechanical and most farmers would use
a combination of machinery and animal-drawn implements for land preparation.
6.02      At full development, paddy yields from the wet and dry season
crops are expected to average 4.0 and 4.2 ton/ha respectively. It is
estimated that these yield levels would be achieved five years after the
introduction of water control. Total paddy production from the Stage I
project area would be about 422,000 tons at full development compared with
189,000 tons at present. Details of present and future yields and production
are given in Annex 13.
Market Prospects
6.03      A major Government objective in the agricultural sector is to
attain self-sufficiency in basic foods, especially rice and corn. The
deficit in rice, the main staple food crop, has been a persistent problem for
the Philippines, and annual rice imports have averaged around 300,000 tons
in recent years. Based on population forecasts of 50 million in 1980 and
assuming no change in the present annual per capita absorption of milled
rice of about 100 kg, total demand for rice in the Philippines in 1980 would
be around 5.0 million tons, equivalent to 7.2 million tons of paddy. To



- 22 -
-et the higher demand, local prodauction would have to increase by about
4.5% per year between 1975 and 1980. While the Government's recent campaign
to increase rice production has met with considerable success, there is
still some doubt about the Philippines' ability to attain self-sufficierncy
by the early 1980s. Incremental paddy production from the project area
would mainly go to feed rice deficit areas as well as the increasing Cagayan
Valley population.
Prices
6.04      According to world market price forecasts by the Bank's Commodities
Division, the price of average quality Thai rice would fall from US$435 per
ton fob Bangkok in 1975 to around US$210 per ton (at constant 1975 prices)
in 1985. The paddy farm gate equivalent of these prices, which was used in
the economic analysis, is P 1,900 (US$275) per ton and P 930 (US$135) res-
pectively (Annex 14). The actual farm gate price of paddy, however, is only
P 1,000/ton at present. The lower price corresponds to an official support
price dictated by the Government's policy of ensuring low food prices to
urban consumers by selling imported rice below cost. At the same time, the
Government subsidizes fertilizers used to grow food crops for domestic
consumption. The November 1974 farm gate price of urea for food crops,
for example, was P 2,400 per ton, while the world market equivalent farm
gate price was P 3,500 per ton. Thus the Government compensates farmers
to some extent for the low domestic price of rice. At full development,
it is assumed that economic and financial prices for inputs and outputs
will coincide at the Bank's lower forecast world market prices (at 1975
constant prices). For example, the farm gate price of paddy is forecast
to be about P 930 per ton and of urea, P 1,900 per ton.
Farm Incomes
6.05      Farm models have been prepared for three typical farm sizes
in both Stages IA and IB. The estimated present incomes and those projected
at full development for all different models are presented in Annex 15, and
summarized for two farm sizes as follows:



- 23 -
Area & Existing           Farm    Cropping Intensity         Farm Inco   a
Farm Type               Size    Present      Future    Present      Future
(ha)               ---%_______p_____
Stage IA - rainfed        2.0        100          162     2,100         7,300
- irrigated      2.0       150          162     4,000         7,300
- rainfed        4.0       100          162      3,700       13,500
- irrigated      4.0       150          162     6,800        13,500
Stage IB - rainfed        2.0        100          100     2,100         4,500
- irrigated      2.0       141          148      3,700        6,600
- rainfed        4.0       100          100      3,700        8,200
- irrigated      4.0       141          148      6,400       12,600
/a   Rounded to nearest P 100.
6.06      Taking the typical 2.0 ha and 4.0 ha farms for Stages IA and IB,
present net farm incomes before making land amortization payments vary
between P 2,100 (US$300) on rainfed farms to P 6,800 (US$980) on irrigated
farms. At full development the limits of the farm income range would rise
to P 4,500 (US$650) and P 13,500 (US$1,960). The differences in income
levels between similar farms in the two Stages are due to assumed cropping
intensity, although in the absence of Magat dam there would probably be some
redistribution of dry season water supplies between the two parts of the
project area. Following completion of Magat dam, incomes on similar farm sizes
would be equal throughout the project area. There is little information on
off-farm income in the project area, but observations and interviews in the
field indicate that such income is small relative to returns from farm work.
Although comparisons of farm incomes based on farm budgets with income data
based on national accounts aggregates must be interpreted with caution, they
do present a rough picture of the relative income position of project bene-
ficiaries. Assuming a family size of six, present per capita farm incomes
in the project area vary from P 350 (US$50) to P 1,130 (US$165), or about
20-70% of the current per capita GNP of around US$240. At full project
development in 1984, the per capita farm income range in the project area
would rise to between P 750 (US$110) and P 2,250 (US$325), or some 35%-105%
of the projected per capita GNP for 1984 of US$315. These comparisons
indicate that the project would tend to narrow the income gap between the
project area and other parts of the country.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Stage I
7.01      The proposed Stage I of the project would increase yields on
about 75,000 ha currently dependent on run-of-the-river irrigation and
rainfed cultivation by providing better water control, improved drainage and



- 24 -
the necessary agricultural supporting services. Rice would be the only
crop grown in the area. Assuming a 50-year project life, prices for rice
and fertilizer based on the Bank's commodity price projections through 1985
and a seasonally variable shadow wage rate for unskilled farm labor, the
economic rate of return on the project would be about 18% (Annex 17).
7.02      Sensitivity of the rate of return to several basic assumptions
made in the economic analysis was tested. These factors were chosen to
test the project's sensitivity to cost overruns and delays in construction;
to failure to achieve the projected cropping intensity; and to a higher
opportunity cost of farm labor. In no case did the rate of return fall
below 12%. On the other hand, if the price of rice turns out to be 25%
higher than forecast, the rate of return would be 24%.
7.03      In the economic analysis, Stage I was treated as a unit since its
division into sub-stages is purely for administrative convenience due to
different sources of financial assistance and has no engineering or agri-
cultural justification. Nevertheless a hypothetical incremental analysis,
conservatively attributing the costs of all facilities common to the whole
project area to Stage IB and assuming that Stage IA of the existing MARIS
has a prior right to valuable dry season irrigation water, shows that the
rate of return on Stage IB alone would be about 11%.
7.04      Improved water management and scheduling of inputs and supporting
services throughout the project area would introduce a more taxing cropping
calendar and farmers would have to replace some animal draft power by
machinery for timely land preparation. Since Stage I would not provide
additional water for substantially increased double cropping it would give
rise to only a small increase in the use of farm labor. However, the
increased rice production from the project would tend to generate additional
jobs in the transport, processing, marketing and service sectors. The
improved farming practices brought about through the proposed project
would also make it easier to shift to full double cropping if and when dry
season irrigation water becomes available through construction of Stage II.
In that case an additional 8.5 million man-days of farm labor would be
needed.
7.05      At full agricultural development rice import savings due to the
project would amount to US$33 million per year at the projected world market
price cif Manila (in terms of constant 1975 prices).  After deducting the
incremental cost of imported fertilizers and chemicals, the net foreign
exchange savings as a result of the project would amount to about US$27
million per year.
Stage II
7.06      A preliminary analysis of the incremental costs and benefits of
Stage II of the project was carried out (Annex 17). The project formulation
envisaged in the NIA/USBR feasibility study was assumed (para 2.10) with the



- 25 -
exception of some 7,000 ha proposed for combined gravity and pump irrigation
for which too little information was available. Costs and quantities were
reviewed and updated to mid-1975 levels. Irrigation benefits were assumed
on the basis of additional irrigated rice areas of 22,500 ha in the wet
season and 68,500 ha in the dry season with similar yields, production costs
and returns as those assumed for Stage I of the project. Power benefits were
assumed on the basis of an installed capacity of 300 MW with a dependable
peaking capability of 250 MW and an average annual energy production of
1,170 GWH. Benefits were assessed as the cost of the comparable thermal
alternative. Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting benefits and
costs over a 50-year period, the economic rate of return on Stage II of
the project would be about 12%.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached on
the following principal points:
(a) NIA would take all the necessary measures to ensure complete
compatibility of standards and facilities between Stages
IA and IB of the project (para 4.05);
(b) the necessary water rights would be transferred to the NIA
and no private water rights which would adversely affect
the project's water supply would be granted except for
domestic use (para 4.09);
(c) the results of the evaluation phase of the Stage II
engineering studies would be submitted to the Bank for
approval and the second phase of the studies would
be implemented only if the Government and the Bank agree
that the work is justified in the light of the results
of the evaluation (para 4.15);
(d) NIA would discuss with the Bank ways of improving collection
of water charges, based on the results of the National
Irrigation Systems Improvement Study (para 5.13); and
(e) NIA would make annual budgetary provisions to supply the
funds necessary for operation and maintenance of the
project; would take all necessary action to ensure full
and prompt collection of irrigation fees; and would
gradually increase irrigation fees over a period of
five years from completion of construction to a level
equivalent to about 3.5 cavans of paddy/ha in the wet
season and 4.4 cavans in the dry season (para 5.16).



- 26 -
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be:
(a) the establishment by the Government of a special fund for
the project; the government has agreed to establish the
fund and to replenish it at monthly intervals to a level
equivalent to the estimated requirements for the next
three months (para 4.23); and
(b) the establishment by NIA of a project organization
satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.03).
8.03      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$42.0
million, with a 25 year maturity and a grace period of seven years. The
borrower would be the Republic of the Philippines.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Cagayan Basin Development
General
1.        The Cagayan river basin in Northern Luzon is one of the largest
of the nine major basins in the Philippines. It covers some 28,000 km2
and is bounded on the north by the Babuyan Channel, on the south by the
Caraballo mountains, on the east by the Sierra Madre mountains and on the
west by the Cordillera Central range. The basin encompasses parts of the
provinces of Isabela, Cagayan, Mountain, Kalinga-Apayao, Ifugao, Nueva
Vizcaya, Quezon and Quirino. The Cagayan river traverses the entire length
of the valley, from its source near the Nueva Vizcaya - Quezon boundary
to its mouth on the Babuyan Channel. The Magat river, lying in the south
western portion of the basin, is the largest of all tributaries. It is
about 150 km long from its upper reaches in Nueva Vizcaya to its confluence
with the Cagayan in Isabela.
2.        Land is one the of major resources in the basin.  Of the total
area of 2.8 million ha about 1.0 million ha are cultivated, of which 40%
are in Isabela, 30% in Cagayan and the balance equally divided between Nueva
Vizcaya and Mountain provinces. The main problem confronting agriculture
in the basin is the lack of dependable water for year round irrigation.
Rainfall is usually sufficient to support wet season cropping, but it is
not only erratic as to time and place of occurence but also deficient in
the dry season. In the rainfed areas cropping is limited to the wet
season and the land is unproductive during the dry months. Even on the
46,000 ha of land served by national gravity systems in the basin during
the wet season, only about 30 to 40% are irrigated during the dry season.
3.        Mean annual rainfall in the basin varies from 1,000 mm to 3,000
mm. The four-month period January through April is dry and accounts for
less than 9% of annual rainfall, while some 75% of the precipitation occurs
during July through Recember. The estimated annual runoff in the basin
amounts to 49,000 MmU.
Magat River Development
4.        The Government recognized the importance of irrigation in the
basin and began developing national gravity irrigation projects in the
mid-1950's. The first stage of the Magat River Irrigation System (MARIS)
was completed in 1957 and the Siffu River Irrigation System (SIFRIS) in
1960. The MARIS was further extended in 1966. In the same year a Water



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Resources Survey Team from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (USBR) submitted
a report on the potentials of the Cagayan basin in terms of land and water
resources. The report concluded that both the Magat and Chico sub-basins
appeared to have good potential for water resource exploitation and should
be given priority for development.
5.        As a result of the Basin Report recommendations the Government
engaged consultants to prepare a provisional planning report on the Magat
river project. The report, submitted in 1967, proposed building a rock-
fill dam on the Magat river to provide storage for year-round irrigation
of 75,000 ha of land as well as a generation of 100 MW of hydroelectric
power.
6.        In line with the declared Government policy of giving priority
in water resources development to multipurpose projects, NIA carried out
a feasibility survey on the Magat project with assistance from the USBR.
The survey, completed in 1973, concluded that development of a multipurpose
project on the Magat river was technically feasible and economically viable.
The project was envisaged to provide storage by building a high dam on the
river to allow year round irrigation on 104,000 ha and installation of a
hydroelectric plant with a capacity of 300 MW.
7.        In 1972 the Asian Development Bank (ADB) provided NIA with
technical assistance in the preparation of detailed feasibility studies
for the Magat Integrated Agricultural Development Project. The aim of
the project was to expand the area under irrigation in MARIS in both wet
and dry seasons through extension and renovation of existing drainage
and irrigation facilities, construction of additional roads, better water
management and strengthening of agricultural supporting services. The
NIA, with ADB assistance, initiated work in 1973 on the Angat-Magat Inte-
grated Agricultural Development Project (AMIADP), which included pro-
visions for the rehabilitation and expansion of the existing MARIS to
a total of 40,000 ha.
Phasing of the Project
8.        It is proposed to implement the Magat multipurpose project over
ten years (1976-1985) in stages.
9.        Stage I.  Would consist of the rehabilitation of the present
systems and the construction of new irrigation facilities on a total
area of some 75,000 ha, that could be served by river diversion in the
wet season. There would be little increase in the dry season irrigation
as there would be no storage. Stage I would take five years (1976-1980).
During the first three years an economic evaluation of the dam would be
carried out to be followed, if warranted, by detailed engineering studies
for building the storage dam, including the preparation and issue of bid
documents for construction.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
10.       Stage I of the project would be divided into two parts:
(a) Stage IA consisting of the upgrading and rehabilitation
of 40,000 ha of the existing MARIS being implemented
under the ADB-assisted AMIADP; and
(b) Stage IB consisting of the upgrading of 12,200 ha of
existing systems and their expansion by a further 22,800
ha under the project proposed for Bank assistance.
11.       Stage II.  Would take seven years (1979-1985) and would be
divided into two parts:
(a)  Stage IIA would take six years (1979-1984) and would
include construction of the dam and additional irrigation
facilities to service the entire 104,000 ha command area.
All civil works associated with the power component of
the project would be included.
(b)  Stage IIB would take five years (1981-1985) and would
consist of the provision and installation of generating
facilities, power lines and substations.



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Climatological Data
Jan     Feb     Mar      Apr      May     Jun      Jul      Aug     Sep      Oct      Nov     Dec         Total
Ilagan, Isabela
Rainfall 1/
Average      (mm)                    64       43      44       63     114      150      184     194      232     287      343      175         1,893
Maximum      (mm)                   262      157     147      218     350      359      493     790      486      848     916      508         3,570
Minimum      (mm)                     3        0       2        0        8      34       21      41       55       58      52       43           952
Number of rainy days  2/                11        7        6       6       10      11       13      13       14       16      17       15           139
TuRuegarao, Cagayan
Relative humidity (%)  3/               80       76      72       68       70      75       77      79       81       82      84       84
Temperature 41
Mean ("C)                          23.8    24.6    26.6    27.6    29.3    29.1    28.5    28.1    27.7    27.3    25.4    24.1
Mean Maximum (°C)                  29.2    31.2    33.4    35.7    36.5    35.7    34.8    33.2    33.6    31.9    30.1    28.9
Mean Minimum (tC)                  19.3    19.6    21.0    22.7    23.7    24.1    23.6    22.9    23.5    22.6    21.6    20.4
Evaporation (mm)  5/                   148      155     207      233      232     191      180     168      167      163     134      137         2,115
Prevailing wind direction  6/          NNW      NNW      N        N        S       S        S       S       NNW       N      NNW       N
Wind velocity (km/hr)  6/                4        3        3       3        3       3        3        3       3        4        3       4
Number of typhoons  7/                   0        0        0       2        2       4       13       12      17        9       11       3             73
(Cagayan Valley & Ilocos)
1/  Period of observation 1926-1972
2/    "     "       "      1940-1965                                                                                                                             aiX
3/    "  "   "      ~~1949-1973
4/    "      "I     "       1903-1939, 1947-1972
5/    "     "       "      1957-1968
6/    "      "      '      1958-1970
7/   '"     "       "      1948-1970



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Land Tenure & Reform
Background
1.        Since 1972 the Government has pursued a program of agrarian reform
aimed at the transfer of land ownership to tenant farmers on rice and corn
lands. Presidential Decree No. 27 (PD 27), the basic legislation of the new
program, provides for the transfer to the tenant, whether sharecropper or
leaseholder, of the land he tills up to a total of 3 ha in an irrigated
area and 5 ha in a rainfed area. The landlord is allowed to retain up to
7 ha providing he cultivates the land himself. The Decree lays down a
system of valuing the land and provides for the tenant to pay for it in
15 equal annual instalments at an interest rate of 6% per annum.
2.        It is estimated that the total number of rice and corn tenants
is about 1.0 million on some 1.5 million ha owned by about 430,000 land-
lords. Some 85% of these landlords have holdings of less than 7 ha. In
addition the total number of rice and corn farmers probably exceeds 2
million, while the total area of rice and corn lands is not much more than
4 million ha, of which less than 1 million ha are irrigated. There is
therefore little prospect of achieving the objective of 5 ha rainfed or 3
ha irrigated family farms nationwide.
3.        A recent survey by the Department of Agrarian Reform  (DAR)
reports that 55% of the tenants on 45% of the tenanted area are under
landlords with holdings smaller than 7 ha. The Government is anxious not
to antagonize the small landowners and is looking for a solution to the
problem which would be equitable to both the tenants and the landlords.
For holdings under 7 ha the Government has announced its intention to enforce
leasehold with security of tenure. To prevent abuses pending the issue of
rules and regulations under the various decrees, evictions are forbidden
and sharecropping has been declared illegal. DAR is proceeding with the
transfer of land in holdings over 24 ha and by February'1975 had issued
land transfer certificates to 191,000 covering 338,000 ha in 64 provinces.
DAR expects to complete the transfer of all land in holdings over 24 ha
by mid-1975.
4.        In November 1974 the Government decided to proceed with the
transfer of land in holdings between 24 and 7 ha. This work began in
January 1975 and is targeted to be finished by the end of 1977. To



ANNEX 3
Page 2
expedite land transfers and resolve land valuation disputes, beginning in
April 1975 the responsibility for land valuation is being turned over to
barrio (hamlet) land valuation committees. The committees consist of the
barrio captain, four tenant farmers, two owner-cultivators, two landowners,
a representative from the DAR and one from the samahang nayon (pre-cooperative
organization).
Situation in the Project Area
5.        All tenants and holdings involved in land reform in the province
of Isabela have been identified. As of February 1975 land transfer
certificates had been issued to some 8,700 tenants on about 15,000 ha out
of a total of about 16,000 tenants on holdings over 7 ha. There are approx-
imately 20,000 tenants on holdings below 7 ha.
6.        Based on data from DAR and the National Economic Development
Authority, an estimated 16,600 people own the 75,000 ha in the Stage I
project area. Some 86% of the owners have properties of less than 7 ha.
This group of owners accounts for 56% of the area. The remaining 14% of
holdings larger than 7 ha comprise 44% of the area or 33,000 ha, most of
which will be transferred to tenant ownership. The land ownership pattern
in the project area by size of holding as of December 1974 was as follows:
Size of Holding                 Owners                    Area Owned
(ha)                   No.         %              ha              %
Less than   7             14,295        86           41,664            56
7 - 12              1,490         9           14,962            20
12 - 24                713         4           12,196            16
24 - 50                 66  )                   2,507             3
50 -100                 28  )      1            2,077             3
More than 100                   8  )                  1,594              2
Total                16,600       100           75,000           100
7.        The average farm unit in the area is 3.1 ha with about 80% of the
24,000 farms, covering 66% of the area, falling between 1 and 5 ha. The
farm size distribution is as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Farm Size                      Farms                     Cultivated Area
(ha)                   No.         %               ha                   %
Less than    1              960        4               750                  1
1 -   3          12,240       51            22,500                 30
3 -   5            7,680      32            27,000                 36
5 -  10            2,400      10            15,750                 21
More than   10           _  720        3             9,000                 12
Total               24,000      100           75,000                100
8.        The tenure situation in the project area at the time of promulga-
tion of PD 27 in late 1972 was as follows:
Tenure                      Farmers                         Area
No.        %                   Ha         _
Owner-Operator            9,840       41                  35,250       47
Leaseholder               1,410        6                   3,970        5
Sharecroppers            12,750       53                  35,780       48
Total               24,000     100                   75,000     100
Owner-operators accounted for 40% of the farmers and the remainder were all
tenants, of whom 90% were sharecroppers. The average owner-operator unit
was some 3.6 ha compared to an average tenant unit of 2.8 ha.
9.        The mean farm size in the project area is considerably larger than
those in the Bank-assisted projects in Central Luzon, where average farm
size ranges from 1.5 to 2 ha. Central Luzon has, however, been developed
more intensively and over a longer period than the relatively newly settled
areas of Isabela province. Population density in the Cagayan Valley is
among the lowest in the Philippines despite considerable internal migration
to Isabela during the last decade. Development of the Magat project is
expected to attract more population to the area and farm size will probably
decrease as irrigation allows a greater productivity.
10.       The transfer by the DAR of landlord holdings larger than 7 ha
would involve an estimated 20,000 ha and 7,100 tenants.  The attainment
of this would result in some 55,300 ha or 75% of the project area being
cultivated by around 16,900 owner-operators, the equivalent of 71% of the
farmers.  The 7,000 tenant farmers on holdings of less than 7 ha would
operate under a leasehold contract.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Project Works
1.        Service Area.  Stage I of the Magat River Multipurpose Project
would improve the Magat River and Siffu River Irrigation Systems (MARIS
and SIFRIS) currently built to serve 41,800 ha and 10,000 ha respectively,
and would extend these systems to serve an additional 21,200 ha in the MARIS
and 2,000 ha in the SIFRIS. The improvements would include modifying
and rehabilitating the existing diversion structures and outlet works,
new water regulating and delivery structures, the construction and/or
enlargement of canals and drains and access and maintenance service roads.
General features of the improved irrigation systems would include addi-
tional canal structures such as checks, control structures and turnouts
to more effectively control water deliveries and to provide water more
efficiently to each field as needed. Constant head orifice turnouts
to sub-laterals would be provided for water deliveries to rotational
areas of about 50 ha. Turnouts would be provided for each 10-ha unit
from which farm ditches, constructed as part of the project, would convey
water directly to most farms. Farm drains would convey excess water
from each 10-ha unit to the main project outlet drains. A few farms
would still receive water through their neighbors' fields. Canals would
be unlined. Working stations for Water Management Technologists (WMT)
would be provided for about each 500 ha of irrigated land, as well as con-
crete rice drying floors. The principal works are discussed separately
for each irrigation system and are summarized in Table 1.
2.        The MARIS was the first irrigation project initiated by the
Government in the Cagayan Valley, and construction of the original
23,500-ha service area was completed in 1957. The east extension of
the system, serving some 17,000 ha, was completed in 1966, bringing the
total service area to 40,500 ha. An additional 1,300 ha of communal irri-
gation systems is included in the area to be rehabilitated and served
by MARIS, resulting in a total area to be improved of 41,800 ha. The
National Irrigation Administration (NIA) is currently rehabilitating and
improving 39,610 ha of this area with the assistance of the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) under its Angat-Magat Integrated Agricultural
Development Project (AMIADP) and is extending irrigation to an additional
390 ha in the area. The ADB-assisted improvement area constitutes
Stage IA of the Magat Project. Stage IB of the project, proposed for Bank
financing, would include the remaining rehabilitation and extension areas
to be served by MARIS and the rehabilitation and extension areas in
SIFRIS.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        The remaining 2,190 ha of the M1ARIS service area requiring
rehabilitation would be improved in Stage IB by repairing canals and
structures and constructing additional sub-laterals, farm ditches,
turnouts, measuring devices, drains and associated works. The MARIS
diversion dam would be raised 5 m to command a larger service area and
to provide daily storage regulation for eventual Stage II power releases
(Annex 1). The existing outlet works on the right abutment would be en-
larged from 65 m3/sec to 87 m3/sec and new outlet works with a capacity of
34.2 m3/sec would be constructed on the left abutment. The MARIS Main
Canal, originating from outlet works on the right abutment of the diver-
sion dam would be enlarged for a distance of 26.6 km and extended an
additional 10.3 km. The North Main Canal would be constructed to serve
8,400 ha of non-irrigated land lying north of the Magat river and would
extend from the new outlet works on the left abutment of the diversion
dam for a distance of 40.7 km to the SIFRIS diversion dam. Water from
the Magat river would be conveyed by the North Main Canal to the SIFRIS
service area Is needed. The South Low Canal, with an initial capacity
of about 18 m /sec, would be constructed to serve 9,610 ha of irrigable
land on the southern periphery of the MARIS service area. The canal
would extend from the Main Canal near Oscariz for a distance of 55 km
and terminate near Alicia. Several laterals would be enlarged to serve
small extension areas in various sections of the project.
4.        The SIFRIS was completed in 1960 and initial irrigation releases
were made to its 10,0O0-ha service area in December of that year. The
system would be impXoved to the same standards proposed for MARIS and
would be extended to serve an additional 2,000 ha of land lying adjacent
to and east of the Siffu north service area. The existing outlet works
for the Siffu North Main Canal at the SIFRIS diversion dam would be en-
larged from 2.65 to 6.3 m3/sec and the canal would be widened for a dis-
tance of 17.4 km and extended an additional 13.9 km. A total of 17
structures of various types would be constructed in the extension portion
of the canal.
5.        Roads would be constructed on the canal banks according to the
following criteria: for canals and laterals with a design capacity
greater than 5.0 O3/sec, operation and maintenance roadways would be
provided on both banks; for canals with capacities between 2.0 and 5.0
m3/sec, a road would be provided on only one bank; and no roadway would
be proviaed for waterways with capacities less than 2.0 m3/sec. In
addition, the existing roads in the irrigated areas would be improved
by widening and gravel surfacing.
6.        The proposed level of on-farm water distribution and drainage
is similar to what is being implemented on the Tarlac Irrigation Systems
Improvement Project (Loan 1080-PH) (Table 4) and would be a subtantial
improvement over the existing systems which make no provision for access or
for distribution beyond the sub-lateral. Rice has been grown in the project
area for many years and the land is reasonably level and well laid out with



ANNEX 4
Page 3
little fragmentation of land holdings. Therefore no land leveling, boundary
realignment or land consolidation would be provided at this stage. The
NIA is now building a 1,000-ha pilot scheme on the Upper Pampanga River
Project to test the feasibility, costs and local acceptability of full on-
farm development, including land consolidation, land leveling and indi-
vidual farm access to irrigation and drainage. The pilot scheme will
determine the effects of full on-farm development on yields, ease of
operations and efficiency of water use and the findings would be applica-
ble to the proposed project.
7.        Project service facilities which would be provided in Stage I
include the following:
(a) access roads and a bridge over the Magat river near
the MARIS diversion dam; and
(b) an air strip near the MARIS diversion dam.
The facilities would be used to facilitate construction of the irrigation
and drainage system in the MARIS service area and the modification of the
MARIS diversion dam and to provide access to the project area for opera-
tion and maintenance after construction work is completed.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECr: STAGE I
Swnary of Irrigation Facilities to be Provided or Rehabilitated
Stage I-A       Stage I-B
MARM5      MARIS     SIFRIS   TOTAL
Rehabilitation Area (ha)           39,610      2,190      10,000   51,800
Main Canal (kmn)
Rehabilitation                      4          0           26       30
Enlargement                         0         27          17        44
Laterals (km)
Rehabilitation                    393         22          82       497
Enlargement                         0         13            0       13
Drains (km)                         433         24          110      567
Farm Ditches (km)                 2,L408       133          608    3,149
Farm Drains (kIn)                 1,584         88          400    2,072
0&M Roads w/Project (kin)           436         23          124      583
Extensimn Area (ha)                   390     20,810       2,000   23,200
Canals & Laterals (km)                5        234           31      270
Drains (km)                           4        228           22      254
Farm Ditches (km)                    24      1,265          122    1,411
Farm Drains (km)                     16        832           80      928
O&4 Roads (km)                        3        215           31      249
Total Area (ha)                  40,000     23,000      12,000   75,000



ANNEX 4
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
MA GAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Irrigation Facilities-Cost/ha 1/
Stage IAV/   Stage IB            System
MARIS      MLRIS      SIFRIS     Average
(39,610 ha)(2,190 ha)(10,000 ha) 51,800
1. REHABILITATION AREA                   ---------------(US. $/ha)----------------
(a)  Canal system                        114        155        119         117
(b)  Drainage system                       62        73          72         64
(c)  Road system                           75       105        106          82
(d) On-farm distribution and
drainage 3/                       139        153        159         143
Sub-total                         390        486        456         406
2. EXTENSIONO A?REA (ha)                     390    20,810       2,000     23,200
(a)  Canal srstem 4/                     133        640         690        619
(b)  Drainage system                       62        71          75         71
(c)  Road system                          46        206        300         211
(d) On-farm distribution
drainage 3/                       165        189        187         185
Sub-total                         406      1,106      1,252       1,086
TOTAL                                                               616
1/ Not including contingencies (20%) and engineering, supervision and
amninistration (10%).
2,/ Source NIA. Based on revised quantities and unit prices updated to July 1975.
3/  Incluiwes Water Management Technologist stations.
W  Includes canal capacity for Stage II development and/or increased capacity
in main canals.



ANNEX 4
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Estimated Length of New Canals Required in Stages I and II
Name of Canal                Stage I          Stage II             Total
----------(kmn)-----------
North Main                     41               -                   41
MARIS Main                     10               -                   10
Siffu North Main               14               -                  14
South Low                     55               -                    55
Cauayan                       11               9                   20
South High                     -               48                  48
Siffu East                     -               35                  35
Oscariz                        _                5                    5
Linglingay                     -                9                    9
TOTAL                  131             106                  237



ANNEX 4
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Density of Terminal On-Farm Facilities on Central Luzon Projects
Project                            On-Farm Facility           0 & M
Irrigation     Drainage       Roads
--------------(m/ha)--------------
UPRP                              57              12            13
Tarlac                            55              40            13



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Water Supply
1.        The sources of water for the proposed project are the runoff of
the Magat river at the MARIS diversion dam and the runoff of Siffu river
at the SIFRIS diversion. In the dry season some use is also made of re-
turn flows in natural drainageways and tributary streams within the
service area. There is presently nio regulatory storage in the watershed
and none would be provided in Stage I of the project. Stage I would not
develop new irrigation supplies, but would improve and extend the existing
irrigation systems and enable them to serve the expanded area by using
the available water supply more efficiently. Less than 40% of the
project area would have water during the dry season. However, additional
water supplies for expanding dry season irrigation would be developed
under an eventual Stage II of the project (Annex 1).
2.        Reliable continuous discharge records for the Magat river are
available from 1948 to 1965. The gauging station was originally located
some 2 km upstream of the MARIS diversion dam. After completion of the
dam in 1957 the station was relocated to a site about 300m below the
dam. Operation of the station was discontinued in 1965 and recommenced
in 1971. The record was extended from 1965 to 1972 by developing on an
area basis a discharge rate at the diversion site from rates at a gauge
some 16 km upstream of the diversion dam.
3.        Reliable discharge records for the Siffu river at a gauging
station about 9 km downstream of the SIFRIS diversion dam are available
from 1948. The records of the station since 1959 have been adjusted
for diversions to the SIFRIS. Runoff at the diversion point was
estimated by the drainage area proportion method.
Water Demand
4.        It was assumed that transplanted rice would be the only crop
grown in the project area in both the wet and dry seasons, using 120-
day, non-photosensitive varieties. Water requirements were based on
the following cropping calendar:



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Dates
Operation                      Wet Season                    Dry Season
Land Preparation & Nursery    mid-July to mid-Nov.    early Mar. to early June
Transplanting                  mid-Sept. to mid-Nov.   early Apr. to early June
Harvesting                     mid-Dec. to mid-Feb.    early July to early Sept.
5.        Land preparation and nursery were estimated to take 30 days with
water requirements for saturation, evaporation and percolation of 305 mm
in the wet season and 325 mm in the dry season. Flooding requirements to
provide a minimum depth of water in the field for cultivation in each
season were estimated to be 20 mm immediately after transplanting followed
by an additional 50 mm about two weeks later. The consumptive use of water
for rice was estimated by the Class A Pan Evaporation Method, using the
pan evaporation record at Tuguegarao, Cagayan dating from 1957 to 1968.
Field percolation losses were estimated to be 2 mm per day based on per-
meability studies in the project area. The effective rainfall was deter-
mined from observed daily rainfall records at Ilagan, between 1953 and 1972,
allowing water depths to fluctuate with the growth of the rice plants and
limiting maximum depth to 150 mm.
6.        The overall irrigation efficiency was estimated to be 39% in
the wet season and 48% in the dry season at full development, based on
farm irrigation wastes of 42% in the wet season and 30% in the dry season,
system operation losses of 15% and canal conveyance losses of 25%. Monthly
project water requitements, average river flows, and the average flow
during the five most critical months of the 20-year runoff record are shown
in Table 1. Seasonal and total annual diversion requirements are developed
in Table 2.
7.        The area that could be irrigated in Stage I in both the wet
and dry seasons was determined from simulated monthly operation studies
using the 20-year adjusted discharge records at each diversion and the
estimated seasonal water requirements for rice. The cropping calendar
was chosen to maximize the use of rainfall without exceeding local man-
power constraints. No use of return flow or other localized water
sources was assumed in Stage I, although this would be possible in
several large areas at the lower end of the service area with development
of Stage II of the project. The studies showed that about 63,000 ha could
be irrigated in the MARIS service area and 12,000 in the SIFRIS service
area in the wet season with acceptable irrigation shortages. The
operation studies indicated that about 25,000 ha could be irrigated in
the dry season in MARIS and about 4,000 ha in SIFRIS. Irrigation shortages
in one month of the wet season (November or December) were limited to less
than 20% in 17 of 20 years of study, while in the dry season shortages in
excess of 20% were noted in 4 years out of 20, always in the month of May.
Project yields have been adjusted to reflect irrigation shortages of the
order experienced in the period of record.
8.        The irrigable areas selected for development in Stage I of the
project, the area to be rehabilitated or newly constructed, and the
currently irrigated areas are as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Stage I Service Area
Stage IA      Stage IB
MARIS     MARIS   SIFRIS  Total
Selected Irrigation Area (ha)
Wet Season                              40,000    23,000   12,000  75,000
Dry Season                              25,000        -       4,000  29,000
Breakdown of Area for Construction (ha)
Area to be rehabilitated & improved  39,610         2,190   10,000  51,800
Extension area (new construction)          390    20,810    2,000  23,200
Total                              40,000    23,000   12,000  75,000
Currently Irrigated Area (ha) /a
Wet Season                              32,000        -       8,350  40,350
Dry Season                              16,000        -       3,400  19,400
/a   The discrepancy between the area currently irrigated (40,350 ha) and
the area needing rehabilitation (51,800 ha) is due to the fact that
the systems were built to serve the larger area, but were not
provided with terminal facilities necessary to achieve the objective.
Water Quality
9.        Tests of water samples from the Magat and Siffu rivers indicate
good water quality with total dissolved solids under 200 ppm. The waters
are of low salinity, slightly alkaline (pH 7-8) and are free of toxic
elements. Water in the Magat river showed an exceedingly high level of
turbidity. This does not appear to have agricultural significance as no
ill effects on crops or soils have been noted after nearly 20 years of
ijrrigation with water from the river.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Estimated Water Requirement and Supply
iJan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    June   July   Aug   Sept    Oct=Nv    Dec
Wet Season Paddy (75,000 ha)              H                                                       N     _+M_ _
LP + N            _                                 raina
Dry Season Paddy (29,000 ha)                    I                  _T   M                H
Rainfall, Ilagan (mm)               64     43   i 44  !  63    114        150   184    194    232    287    343    175
LP = Land Preparation, N = Nursery, T = Transplanting, M = Management, H = Harvest
Water Requirement                        I              I                                             I
Land prep. & nursery    (mm)                   100    125    100               65    120      90      30
Flooding for cultivation(mm)                        1  30      40                              5      35     30
Consumptive use           (mm)  71       4             75  1 215       218   115      12      15      99    149    147
Percolation               (mm)  25       1    __       19      53       57    36;    5         5      36     62      56
Field water requirement (mm)' 96         5    100    249    408        275   216   137    115    200    241    203
Effective rainfall        (mm)  46       5      32      52     94      143 1 124    108    106    150    182    120
Net farm irr. reqm't    (mm)  50         0      68    197    314       132'  92       29  1   9       50      59     83
Overall irr. efficiency (%)  39.4   39.4   47.6   47.6   47.6    47.6  45.1 I 40.4   39.4   39.4   39.4 j 39.4
Irr. diversion reqm't   (mm) 127         0 °     143    414    660     277   204      72      23    127    150    212
Cropped area              (ha)                                              _       __i__
MARIS                                                        25, 00--- -                    63,000
SIFRIS                            |> k_ 4,) 0-                                        >    12,000              |
Volume water required   (MM3                                     4  0                          1
MARIS                       80.0      0    35.8  103.5  165.0    69.3  73.4   41.8   14.5   80.0 j 94.5 1133.6
SIFRIS                      15.2      0     5.7   16.6   26.4    11.1  13.1    7.9    2.8   15.2 1 18.0   25.4
3
Water Available (Mm)
20-Year Average
Magat R. (MARIS)            332    240    245    280    376         417   633    781    968    851    692    594
Siffu R. (SIFRIS)            37      31     31      31      48       71    78    118    137    104    100         73
5 Critical Month Average  1/                                                                                      I
Magat R.                    146    102       97    117    131       191   236    397    492    387    295    195
Siffu R.                     21      17      19     16      17       29    43      60      76     41      35      22
1/ Mean of 5 lowest monthly discharges in 20 year observation period.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
MA7TAT 2IVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECr: STAGE I
Project Water Requirements
(Mm)
Wet Season             Dry Season
Land Preparation (30 days)
Satu ration                                  75                      40
Eva.poration                                 170                    225
PercoL ation                                 60                      60
Sub -tot al                               35                      325
Flooding for Cultiva.tion (field depth)          70                     70
Sub-total                                 375      ArimIally      395
Total                                              770
Crop Water Requirement                     (92 days)               (84 days)
Evapotranspiratoln                          485                     635
Percolation (2Anlm/day)                     1(35                    170
Sub-total                                670        11,475       805
Total Field Water Requirement                 1,045       2,245      1 ,200
Less Effective Rainfall                         ?40       1L20         420
Net Farrn Irrigation TP3quire ment              305       1,085        780
Farm Irrigation Efficiency                      58%                    70%
Farm Irrigation RIequirement (at turnout)       525       1,640      1,115
Conveya?ice Losses ( 25%)                       130         41o        280
.System Operation Losses (15%)                  115         360        245
rrt, 1 Ii~ve:,9.sir,n  Jea.ireTnerit        770        2,410     1,640
Overall Irrigation Efficiency                391         5%4 8$



ANNEX 6
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Engineering Studies: Stage II
General
1.        Stage II of the project would comprise a concrete spillway dam
and power plant on the Magat river, flanked by rockfill embankments. A
rockfill dam would also be built on.the Baligatan creek behind the right
abutment of the Magat dam. The installed capacity of the power plant
would be about 300 MW and annual energy generation would be about 1,200
GWh. Irrigation facilities would be built for an additional 29,000 ha, of
which about 7,000 ha might require a combination of gravity canals and
pumping. Cropping intensity on the entire project area would be raised
to 200%.
2.        Additional site investigations, and optimization and design
studies are required to permit a more accurate evaluation of the tech-
nical and economic feasibility of Stage II of the project. Should the
studies indicate that proceeding with the project was justified, the
final designs, construction drawings and tender documents would be pre-
pared for the construction and materials contracts for Magat dam and
appurtenant works.
Objectives
3.        The objectives of the studies would be to:
(a) collect the additional data required for a detailed
evaluation of the economic feasibility of implementing
Stage II of the project based on the construction of
Magat dam; and
(b) to prepare final designs, construction drawings,
specifications, bill of quantities, cost estimates
and bid documents for Stage II, assuming the feasibility
of construction of the dam, power plant and appurtenant
facilities to be satisfactorily demonstrated.
Implementation
4.        The National Irrigation Administration (NIA) would give primary
responsibility for carrying out the study to its Special Projects Orga-
nization. Assistance would be available from other specialized units of
NIA as required and there would be close coordination on the power aspects
of the study between NIA and the National Power Corporation (NPC).



ANNEX 6
Page 2
5.        Part A of the study would be concerned with the collection of
additional geological information on the proposed dam site and reservoir,
further investigations on frequencies of peak flood discharges, design
flood peak and sedimentation rates, and a review of reservoir sizing to
maximize net project benefits. The additional area to be served by the
dam would be determined, together with the feasibility of a combined gravity
and pump irrigation canal to service about 7,000 ha east of the Siffu south
main canal. With the additional data collected, more detailed engineering
designs and estimates for Stage II of the project would be carried out leading
to its full economic evaluation. Part B of the task, which would be condi-
tional on a favorable outcome of the economic evaluation, would consist of
preparation of the final designs, construction drawings, specifications, cost
estimates and bid documents for the dam and appurtenant facilities.
6.        The engineering studies would take three years to complete.  Most
of Part A would be concluded in about ten months and the results would be
presented for review by NIA and the Bank in a Project Design Report. There
would be a two-to three-month gap between the submission of the report
and initiation of Part B of the studies to allow for the review process.
Part B would only be included in the project if NIA and the Bank agreed
that the results of Part A warranted proceeding with Stage II. Part B
of the studies, including bid evaluation for the dam, would take about
18 months. Assuming the studies would begin in April 1976, Part A would
be completed by the end of January 1977, the results would be reviewed
by June and work on Part B would begin in July 1977. On this timetable
contracts would be awarded by the end of 1978. Allowing for mobilization,
preliminary work on the dam would only begin in the second quarter of 1979.
Critical work actions that would have to be completed prior to award of
the contract for construction of Magat dam are shown on Chart No. 9684.
7.        The NIA/USBR feasibility study estimated a cement requirement
for Magat dam of about 550,000 tons. Existing cement factories in Central
Luzon are between 200 and 300 km from the dam site and the main road link
is subject to interruption in wet weather. NIA and other Government
agencies are presently investigating possible sources of supply of cement,
means and routes of transport, stockpiling requirements, the possibility
of developing a new cement facility in Cagayan valley, and the costs and
benefits of the various alternatives. The results of the investigations,
including costs of the various alternatives, methods of implementation
and timetables would be completed concurrently with the conclusion of
Part A of the engineering studies (January 1977).
Consultants
8.        NIA would employ a firm of consultants under terms of reference
and conditions to be approved by the Bank to assist in the studies. Draft
terms of reference are shown in Attachment I. It is estimated that a
total of 584 man-months of consulting services would be required, of
which 136 man-months in Part A of the study and 448 man-months in Part B.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
A breakdown of the estimated requirements for consulting time for the two
phases is shown in Table 1. In view of the magnitude of the proposed Magat
dam NIA would appoint a board of consultants to assist NIA in the review
and approval of the consultants' designs. The board would consist of
experts in dam design and dam site geology, and an expert in earthquake
design criteria.
Cost
9.        The Stage II engineering studies are estimated to cost a total
of US$6.0 million, including a foreign exchange component of US$3.9
million for the purchase of equipment, vehicles and materials and for
consultant services. Details of the cost estimates are given in Annex 8
and a list and cost of the proposed equipment to be purchased is shown
in Annex 9.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
i>T  ,'IVLR MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
ENGINEERING STUDIES: STAGE II
Estimated Consulting Requirements
Evaluation   Final Designs &   Total
Studies      Bid Documents
-(Man-Months)_-__________
Resident Project Manager                  12            12                24
Engineering Geologist                     18              6               24
Senior Design Ehgineer                     6              6               12
Design Engineer                           16              4               20
Hydrologist                                6              -                6
Hydraulic Ehgineer                         -              6                6
Contracts Engineer                         -             4                 4
Specifications Engineer                    -              6                6
Sigineering Cost Estimator                 -             4                 4
Local Consulting Services                 16             20               36
Sub-total In-Country Services          74            68               142
Hone Office Design & Ehg.Support          50           340 -/            390
Sub-total                             124           408               532
Contingencies (10%)                       12            40               _52
Total Manpower Requirements           136           448               584
1/ Reflects heavy home office requirements for preparation of final designs and
specifications for the dam and power plant.



ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 1
Stage II Studies
Draft Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
1.   Introduction
A feasibility report on the Magat River Multipurpose Project
prepared by NIA with the assistance of USBR, proposed a dam and power plant
on the Magat river to irrigate 104,000 ha and generate about 1,000 GWh per
year. NIA will shortly begin work on a first stage development, which
would irrigate 75,000 ha from the unregulated flows of the Magat river.
At the same time, further engineering and economic studies will be made
for the second stage, involving construction of the dam and power plant.
If the studies show Stage II to be justified, work will proceed on the
necessary pre-construction activities.
2.        Stage I of the project would include:  rehabilitation and upgrading
of the Magat River Irrigation System (MARIS), the Siffu River Irrigation System
(SIFRIS), and several communal systems which together serve about 51,800
ha; construction of new systems serving 23,200 ha; and remodelling of the
MARIS diversion dam. The unregulated river flows are sufficient for an
annual cropping intensity of 139%. The MARIS diversion dam would be
remodelled to raise the upstream water level by 5m; this would provide
sufficient storage to regulate daily fluctuations in water releases from
the Stage II power plant.
3.        Stage II of the project would comprise a concrete spillway dam
and power plant on the Magat river, flanked by rockfill embankments. A
rockfill dam would also be required to close a depression formed by the
Baligatan creek behind the right abutment. The installed capacity of the
power plant would be about 300 MW and annual energy generation would be
about 1,200 GWh. In addition to power generation, the Stage II project
would allow the irrigated area to be expanded from 75,000 ha to 104,000 ha
with an annual cropping intensity of 200%.
4.        Details of the Stage II project as proposed in the USBR report
are summarized below:



ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 2
Dams
Concrete dam and spillway                Crest length  790 m
max. height   115 m
Rockfill dams:                           Crest length 2400 m
max. height    70 m
Reservoir
Max. water level                         197.45 m
Max. conservation level                  193.00 m
Gross storage at El. 193                 1254 Mm3
Area at El. 193                            44.6 km2
Power plant
Installed capacity                       6 x 50 Mw
Turbines:                                rated head 76.5 m
operating range 87-55 m
Hydrology
Annual Runoff (avg.)                     6600 Mm3/sec
Spillway Design Flood                    peak 32,000 Mm3/sec
volume 7,600 Mm3
5.        The services for Stage II to be performed by the consulting firm
employed by NIA would be in two parts: Part A would cover the engineering
and economic studies required to confirm the technical feasibility of the
project and assess its economic justification; Part B would cover the
preparation of contract documents, and assistance to NIA in prequalification
of bidders, evaluation of bids and recommendations for award of contract.
The services under Part B would be required only if the Government and the
Bank, decided to proceed on the basis of the Part A studies. There would be
an interval of 60 to 90 days between submission of the report on Part A
and a decision to proceed with Part B of the studies.
6.        Data and Studies Available for the Consultants
NIA will make the following studies and data available to the
consultants:
(a) Magat River Project Feasibility Report (5 volumes),
June 1973;
(b) Basic data used in preparing the report;



ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 3
(c) Memorandum prepared in connection with IBRD appraisal of
Stage I covering designs and estimates, operation studies,
and preliminary economic evaluations; and
(d) Irrigation requirements for Stage I.
7.        Services Required Under Part A
Design studies, site investigations and optimization studies would
be carried out to develop in more detail the designs proposed in the feasi-
bility report. The results of these studies would be prepared in a Project
Design Report. Cost estimates would be prepared for the proposed designs.
8.        Design Studies.  The following studies pertain primarily to the
structural design of the storage works and the safety of the reservoir:
(a) review designs proposed in the 1973 feasibility report
and modify the designs where necessary for safety
or savings in costs;
(b)  recommend to NIA a program of site investigations
required in connection with (a) and assist NIA
in its supervision (the program of site investigation
should be designed to remove all major uncertainties
regarding the adequacy of the foundation for the dams
and their stability under the design loads, and provide
an adequate basis for final designs);
(c) conduct detailed studies and investigations to establish
earthquake design criteria for the major structures, and
determine the need for special provisions in their design;
(d) investigate sources of construction material and determine
quantities available, physical and chemical properties,
and processing requirements; and
(e) undertake geological mapping of the reservoir to determine
if any leakage would occur and of what magnitude, and
assess the potential for landslides.
9.        Hydrologic Studies
(a) review the spillway design flood study in the feasibility
report and conduct additional studies to determine the flood
hydrograph to be used as a basis for final designs;
(b) conduct flood routing studies to determine spillway capacity;



ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 4
(c) review and make additional studies of flood frequencies to
be used in designs for river diversion during construction;
(d) review the reservoir sedimentation studies, conduct
additional sediment observations, and estimate the rate of
storage depletion due to reservoir sedimentation;
(e) review the adequacy of the proposed reservoir outlets to
draw down the reservoir in emergencies, and propose modifica-
tions where necessary;
(f) assess the feasibility of operating the reservoir outlets
to reduce sediment depletion of the reservoir; and
(g)  prepare a program for hydraulic model studies of the Magat
spillway and the MARIS diversion dam, and assist NIA in
supervising the studies.
10.      bOptimization Studies.  Operation studies carried out in the
course of the Bank's appraisal of the Stage I project indicated possible
advantages in (a) raising the reservoir conservation level, and (b) lowering
the rated head for the generating units. The consultants would conduct
additional studies to resolve these issues; this would require:
(a) curves of project costs versus maximum conservation level;
(b) operation studies for a range of conservation levels and
different turbine/generator characteristics; and
(c) economic analyses to determine optimum values for final
designs.
11.       Cost Estimates.  The procedure used to estimate costs would follow
the methods employed by contractors in bid preparation; estimates of the
cost of equipment, equipment operation, supervisors and labor, and materials
required would be used to derive unit prices for the major work items.
12.       Economic Evaluation.  The consultant should review the study made
by IECO for the Luzon Grid in 1973, taking into account recent developments in
the National Power Corporation's investment program, demand forecast, cost
increases, etc., and assess the economic viability of the Magat project as
part of the overall development of the power system in Luzon. The principal
components of the cost and benefit streams would be:
Cost Stream:   (a)  Construction costs and annual operation,
maintenance and replacement costs for the
Stage I facilities; and



ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 5
(b) construction and operation, maintenance and replace-
ment costs for the expansion of the irrigation system
by about 23,000 ha.
Benefit Stream:
(a) incremental net production value due to increases
in cropped area (higher intensity on 75,000 ha
and new development on 29,000 ha); and
(b) capital costs and operation, maintenance and replace-
ment costs for alternative generating facilities
equivalent to Magat in dependable peaking and energy
generation.
Equalizing discount rate for the cost and benefit streams will be computed,
and sensitivity and probability tests made for variations in the main
parameters (capital costs, farm gate prices, and thermal plant fuel costs).
In estimating agricultural benefits, the consultants should draw on data and
assumptions made in analyses for the Stage I development.
13.       Services Required Under Part B.
Subject to satisfactory completion of the Part A studies, and a
Government decision to proceed with the Stage II project, the consultants
would prepare contract designs, specifications, bills of quantities and
tender documents suitable for international competitive bidding. The
consultants would assist NIA in prequalification of bidders, invitations
to tender, and in evaluating bids received. Some of the investigations
carried out in Part A such as geology studies, site investigations and
hydraulic model studies will be continued where necessary to provide
additional information needed for design purposes. Similarly, the cost
estimates will be developed in more detail for purposes of an "Engineers'
Estimate" to be prepared for NIA prior to receipt of bids.
14.       Consulting Experts
NIA intends to secure the services of consulting experts in dam
design, dam site geology, and earthquake design criteria. The experts would
assist NIA in the review and approval of the consultants' designs, and meet-
ings with these experts would take place in the Philippines. The consultants
shall make available to these experts all the information or studies used
in the designs for their review.
15.       Administration of the Stage II Studies
NIA's Special Projects Organization will be primarily responsible
for organization and management of the Stage II studies, and will be the
consultants' main contact within NIA.



ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 6
16.       Services to be Provided by the Government
Services and facilities that will be made available to the
consultant include the following:
(a) Counterpart professional and clerical staff as may be required
for the proper execution of the consultant's duties in the
Philippines. Professional staff available within the NIA
includes design engineers, hydrologists, 0 & M engineers and
drillers. Geologists and power engineers may be temporarily
provided from the National Power Corporation. Hydraulic
model preparation and testing capability is available at
the University of the Philippines;
(b) Suitably furnished office space in Quezon City, including
adequate office equipment and supplies that may be required
for the proper execution of the consultant's work. Office
space will also be provided in Cauayan, about 30 km from the
dam site. Temporary office space will be provided at the
site;
(c)  Housing at or near the dam site.  Reasonably furnished family
living quarters or compensation therefore will be provided for the
consultant's personnel located in Manila;
(d) Overland transportation facilities, and/or NIA or domestic
air transportation between Quezon City and the project area,
and service vehicles, including drivers and the cost of
maintenance and operation required in the conduct of official
work for the study program;
(e) All available studies, data, photographs, maps, drawings,
reports, and other information pertinent to the execution
of the consultant's work;
(f) Such laboratory facilities, drilling equipment, testing
devices, apparatus, instruments, etc., that may be required
by the consultant in relation to the studies and tests; and
(g) Telephone, telegraph, cable and postage expenses and printing
and reproductions required by the consultant in the performance
of the work.
17.       The Government will exempt or bear the cost of any taxes, duties,
fees, levies and other impositions imposed on the consultant and his personnel
(other than personnel who are citizens or permanent residents of the Philip-
pines) under the laws and regulations of the Philippines or any political
subdivision or agency thereof in respect of:



ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 7
(a) Any payments made to the consultant or to his personnel
in connection with carrying out of the agreed to services;
(b) Any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the
Philippines for the purposes of carrying out the services
and which, after having been brought into the Philippines,
will subsequently be withdrawn therefrom. Such importations
shall include the personal and household effects of the
consultant's personnel, but shall be exclusive of foodstuffs,
beverages, automobiles, radios, TV's and major household
appliances.
18.       The Government will also:
(a) Facilitate prompt clearance through customs of any equipment,
materials or supplies required for the services and of the
personal effects of the consultant's personnel;
(b) Ensure that the consultant's personnel and their dependents
are promptly provided with any necessary entry and exit
visas, residence permits, exchange permits and travel documents
required for their stay in the Philippines; and
(c) Issue all necessary permits and authorizations for
carrying out the services.
Procedure for Submitting Proposals
19.       Consulting firms invited to submit proposals are requested to
provide in detail the following:
(a) A description of the firm, including its background and
experience in the work described in the terms of reference;
list of past and present contracts for work of similar
nature with a brief description of each and the scope of
consultancy services undertaken; and qualifications of key
personnel;
(b)  The composition of the team proposed to be assigned to the
project both in the field and in the home office, indicating
the positions and detailed job description for each and the
names, qualifications and professional experience of each
expert to be assigned to the positions. Personnel proposed
should be proficient in spoken and written English;
(c) Terms and conditions under which the duties and responsibilities
described in paragraphs 7 through 13 of the terms of reference
would be carried out; financial terms are not desired at this
stage;



AN'NEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 8
(d) The proposed schedule of personnel assignments and an estimate
of the total number of man-months;
(e) The category and number of counterpart personnel and other
local staff desired to be provided by the Government to assist
the consultant in the execution of his responsibilities;
(f) The policy of the Government is to utilize the services of
local consultants, both individuals and consulting firms, to
the maximum degree possible in project planning, design and
supervision. The consultants should therefore describe in
their proposal the arrangements they would make to utilize
local expertise. The degree to which such expertise will be
utilized will be a factor in the evaluation of the proposal;
and
(g) A list of vehicles and equipment anticipated to be required
in carrying out the consultant's responsibilities.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Technical Assistance to NIA
General
1.        The National Irrigation Administration (NIA), with assistance from
the Asian Development Bank (ADB), is currently extending and/or rehabilitating
the Angat-Magat, Davao del Norte and Agusan del Sur projects for a total of
90,700 ha. In addition, NIA is engaged, with assistance from the Bank Group,
in rehabilitation and extension of the Pampanga, Aurora-Penaranda and Tarlac
projects, covering some 143,300 ha. If the proposed Magat Stage IB and the
national irrigation component in the Rural Development project on Mindoro
are included, the NIA program, financed from Bank or ADB sources alone, would
amount to 281,000 ha. This figure does not include any of the communal
projects, pump projects or domestically financed national projects.
2.        Responsibility for the construction and eventual operation of all
these projects has been allocated to the newly created Special Projects
Organization within NIA (Annex 11). In the last five years NIA has built up
a cadre of engineers with some experience of building sizable projects, how-
ever the proposed pace of irrigation development and the expansion of
activities out of Central Luzon are expected to put a substantial strain on
NIA's construction management and planning capabilities.
3.        The success of the new generation of irrigation projects is based
on maximization of cropping intensity, high water use efficiencies and demand-
ing cropping calendars. Attainment of these objectives will depend on the
joint efforts of the extension staff, the farmers and the NIA's operations
personnel. The programs for training Water Management Technologists included
in the Tarlac project and proposed for the Magat project are aimed at provid-
ing effective coordination between water supply and agricultural requirement
within the basic project organizational unit of 50 ha. However, these programs
will not provide assistance to NIA in systems operation and maintenance, with-
out which there is little prospect of effective water management. NIA cur-
rently lacks expertise in this field.
4.        The proposed technical assistance program would help to meet NIA's
requirements in the fields of construction management and systems operation
by providing personnel with expertise in the two fields.
Objectives
5.        The objectives of the program would be to provide to the Special
Projects Organization of NIA:



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(a) a construction management engineer to assist and to train
the construction staff in construction management and
scheduling to assure that construction goals and schedules
are met; and
(b) a systems operation and maintenance engineer to provide
guidance and training to the operations staff in the operation
and management of large irrigation and drainage systems.
Implementation
6.        The services of the two engineers would be provided for a period of
three years, for a total of 72 man-months. The functions of the two specialists
would be as follows:
(a) Construction Management Engineer. Would provide guidance to
NIA staff in the scheduling and performance of construction
activities, would advise on the preparation of critical path
construction schedules and assist in setting up day-to-day
monitoring procedures. He would also assist NIA staff in
developing future construction programs and in evaluating
their personnel and equipment requirements. He would assist
in on-the-job training of NIA staff in this field of expertise.
(b) Systems Operation and Maintenance Engineer. Would be responsible
for assisting NIA staff in the preparation of water delivery
schedules and in their implementation. He would provide guidance
and advice on the preparation of maintenance requirements, pro-
cedures and control schedules, as well as developing a project
operation and maintenance monitoring system of all canals,
laterals and hydraulic structures. He would also provide input
to the ongoing Water Management Training program as well as
assistance to on-the-job training of NIA operations and main-
tenance staff.
Costs
7.        The proposed technical assistance to NIA is estimated to cost a
total of US$0.40 million, including a foreign exchange component of US$0.32
million. Details of the cost estimate are given in Annex 8.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
PHILIPPlNES
MACAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Cost Estimate
Fox eign
Local      Foreisn        Total                     Local         Foreign       Total           Fxchange
(---(Pesos '000)          -                          ----------(US$ '000) -------
1.  PROJECT SERVICE AREA
Modification MARIS Diversion Dam          27,150      15,050        42,200                    3,940          2,180         6,120             36
Access Roads & Magat River Bridge          6,830       3,450        10,280                      990            500         1,490             34
Air Strip                                    640         430          1,070                      90             60           150             40
Rehabilitation - MARIS                     5,010       2,270         7,280                      720            330         1,050             31
Extension Area - MARIS                     6,400       2,850         9,250                      930            410         1,340             31
South Low Canal Area - MARIS              49,360     24,990         74,350                    7,150          3,620        10,770             34
North Main Canal Area- MARIS              50,170      23,730        73,900                    7,270          3,440        10,710             32
Rehabilitation - SIFRIS                   21,030      9,590         30,620                    3,050          1,390         4.440             31
Extension Area - SIFRIS                   11,490       5,660        17,150                    1,670            820         2,490             33
Water Management Stations                  3,070       1,630         4.700                      450            235           685             34
Sub-Total                          181,150      89,650        270,800                  26,260         12,985        ::9,245            33
Contingencies 20%                         36,440     17,720         54,160                    5,255          2,595         7,850
Engineering Supervision 6 Adm. 107.       32.500                    32,500                    4.705           -          -4,705
Sub-Total                          250,090    107,370         357,460                   36,220        15,580        i'1,800            i°
2. OPERATION & MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT             690      10,350        11,040                      100          1,500         1,600             94
3. WATER MANAGEMENT TRAINING
Project Personnel                            970         410         1,380                      140             60           200            30
Consulting Services                           70         350           420                       10             50            60            83
Buildings                                    130          40           170                       25              5            30            -7
Equipment, Supplies & Materials              140       1,100         1,240                       20            160           180             89
Contingencies 107                            100         240            340                      15             35            50             70
Sub-Total                            1,410       2,140          3,550                      210            310           520            6,0
4.  STAGE II ENGINEERING STUDIES
Contractual Services                       5,720     19,670         25,390                      830          2,850        :,680             i7
Project Personnel                          2,760        -            2,760                      400           -             400               1
Equipment, Supplies & Materials              280       2,070         2,350                       40            300          340              E8
Camp Facilities                            4,260        400          4,660                      620             60          680               9
Power Facilities                             340      1,580          1,920                       50            230          280              82
Contingencies 15,                          2'010      3,530          5.540                      290            510          800              64
Sub-Total                           15,370      27,250         42,620                   2,230          3,950        6,180              64
5.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO NIA                  600       2,200         7,800                       80            320          400              80
SUB-TOTAL PROJECT COST                   268,160    149,310        417,470                   38,840         21,660      60,500              36
Expected Price Increases  1/             112.915     49.235        162.150                   16,160          7.340      23.500               31
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 381,075    198,545         579,620                  55,000         29,000       8',,000             35
1/ Based on Annex 8, Table 7.



ANNEX 8
PHILIPPINES                         Table 2
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
PROJECT SERVICE AREA
Cost Estimate
Local    Foreig    Total
-(us$ tooo)-------
1.  Modification of MARIS Diversion Dam                   3,760    2,360    .6,120
2. Access Road & Magat River Bridge                         94o       55o    :1,490
3. Air Strip                                                 90        60       150
4.  Rehabilitation of MARIS Service Area (2,190 ha)
Canal System                                        230       110        340
Drainage System                                      110        50       160
Road System                                          130      100        230
On Farm Distribution & Drainage                      220      100        320
Water Management Stations                             10         5        15
Sub-Total                                      7          on
5. Extension of MARIS Service Area (2,800 ha)
Canal System                                        270       140        410
Drainage System                                     140        50        190
Road System                                          150      100        250
On Farm Distribution & Drainage                     330       160        490
Water Management Stations                             15        10        25
Sub-Total                                      9       -I i5      T
6. South Low Canal Service Area (including
enlargement of MARIS Main Canal) (9,610 ha)
Canal System                                      3,690    2,110      5,800
Drainage System                                     470       210        680
Road System                                       1,510    1,060       2,570
On Farm Distribution & Drainage                   1,160       560      1,720
Water Management Stations                                      30         90
Sub-Total                                     6,890    3,970    10,860
7. North Main Canal Service Area (8,400 ha)
Canal System                                      4,65o    2,470      7,120
Drainage System                                     4l1       19o        600
Road System                                         870       600     1,470
On Farm Distribution & Drainage                   1,020       500     1,520
Water Management Stations                             55       25         80
Sub-Total                                     7,005    TM-  10,790
8. Rehabilitation of SIFRIS Service Area (10,000 ha)
Canal System                                        800       390     1,190
Drainage System                                     490       230        720
Road System                                         620       440     1,060
On Farm Distribution & Drainage                   1,000       490      1,490
Water Management Stations                             70       30        100
Sub-Total                                     2,970    F             7
9.  Extension of SIFRIS Service Area (including
enlargement of North Main Canal) (2,000 ha)
Canal System                                        860       520     1,380
Drainage System                                     100        50       150
Road System                                         400       200       600
On Farm Distribution & Drainage                      240      120       360
Water Management Stations                             10        5          5
Sub-Total                                    1,610    __T55
10.  Water Management Stations for Stage IA                  230      130        360
Project Area Total                                  25,080   14,165    32,945
Contingencies 20%                                    5,015    2,835      7,850
Ehgineering, Supervision & Administration 10%        -4 705               4,705
TOTAL                                       34,8oo   17,000    51,800



AM=NE 8
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
WATER MANAG3MNT TRAINING
Cost Estimate
Local      Foreign       Total
--------- (US$OO --------
1.  Project Personnel                                  140           60         200
2.  Consulting Services                                 10           50          60
3.  Buildings                                           25            5          30
4. Equipment, Supplies & Materials
(a)  Office Supplies, Materials & Farniture         15           15          30
(b)  Farm Equipment                                  5           15          20
(c)  Vehicles                                       -            43          43
(d)  Hydromet Equipment                             -            15          15
(e)  Fuel, Oil, Spares                              -            25          25
(f)  Field Supplies & Materials                     -            35          35
(g)  Sundries                                       -            12          12
Sub-Total Item 4                          20         160          180
Sub-Total Items 1-4                      175         275          450
Contingencies (10%)                                     15           35          50
Total                                    210         310          520



ANNIEX 8
Table 4
PHILIPPINMS
NAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECr: STAGE I
ENGINEERING STUDIES: STAGE II
Oost Estimate
Local      Forei        Total
--------U-----------
1.  Contractual Services:
(a)  Advisory Board                                 -           40            40
(b)  Consulting Services 1/                         240      2,760        3,000
(c)  Drilling & Exploratory Adits                  450          50          500
(d)  Hydraulic Models                              100         _            100
(e)  Printing Specifications & Docaments            40         -              40
Sub-Total                                 830      2,850         3,680
2. Project Personnel                                    400        -             400
3.  &quipment, Supplies & Materials:
(a)  Vehicles                                      -            80            80
(b)  Euipment & Supplies                           10         120          130
(c)  Temporary Quarters & Offices                   30         100          130
Sub-Total                                  40         300          340
4. Camp Facilities: Including
Adm.Building, Laboratory, Guesthouse,
Staff & Consultant Quarters (lump Sum)              620         60           680
5. Temporary Power Facilities: Including
Diesel Generators & Distribution
Facilities (Lump (Sum)                               5o        230           280
Sub-Total Items 1-5                     1,940      3,440         5,380
Contingencies (15%)                                290       _510           800
Total                                   2,230      3,950        6_180
1/  Based on <anex 8, Table 5



ANNEX 8
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECr: STAGE I
ENGINEERING STUDIES: STAGE II
CONTRACTUAL SERVICES
Consulting Services Cost Breakdown
Local      Foei         Total
--------(US$      )------- ----
1. Engineering Studies, Tests & Prelim.Designs
(a) Consultant In-Country Services  1/             48          300          348
(b)  Local Consulting Services                     40          -             4C'
(c)  Home Office Services                           -          200          200
(d)  Contingency Staff                             10           38           48
(e)  Transportation & Per Diem                       9          73           82
Sub-Total                                 107          611          718
Miscellaneous (Bond,Ins.,etc).                       3          29            32
Fixed Fee                                            -         120           120
SuLb-Total                                110          760          870
2. Final Designs, Spec's. *L B&i-d Documents
(a)  Consulting In-Country Services  I/            38          250          288
(b)  Local Consulting Services                     50          -             5C
(c)  Hone Office Services                          -         1,310        1,310
(d)  Continge.ncy Staff                            32          128          160
(e)  Transportation Rz Per Diem                     3           27           30
Sub -Total                                123        1,715        1,838
_Miscell:ineous                                      7          85            02
Fixed Fee                                           -          200           200
Suib-Total                                130        2,000        2,13'.
Total                                     240        2,760        3,000
1/  k.  uJes lous-nig. ec2lcat-ionE mc  travel costs.



ANNEX 8
Table 6T
PHILIPPINES
MACAT RIVER MULTIPUR?POSE PROJECr: STAGE I
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO NIA
Cost Estimate
Local      Foreign        Total
-   --(US7 t'oo) -_______
1.  Salaries & Fringe Benefits                            -           225          225
2.  Administration & Technical Backstopping               -             45           45
3.  Housing & Utilities                                    35           -            35
4. Education                                               ID           _            10
5. Transportation:
(a)  Self & Family - Official                         35           30           65
(b)  Belongings                                       -            20           20
Total                                        80         320          ____



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECTr_STAGE I
Expected Price Increases
Calendar Year:                         1975      1976     1977      1978     1979      1980        Total
1.  Civil Works US$ '000                       205     3,385    11,775   18,030   11,950   6,985         52,330
Annual Inflation Rate %  1/                 16        14         12       12        12      10
idxpected Price Increases US$ '000         15        520     3,280    7,320    6,300   4,460        21,895
2.  Equipment & Services US$ '000              -       1,545      5,110    1,475        25      15        8,170
Annual Inflation Rate %                     12        10          8        8'        8       7
Expected Price Increases UJS$ '000         -         165     1,020       410         5       5        1,605
Total US$ t100                       205     4,930    16,885   19,505   11,975   7,000         60,500
e:xpected Price Increases US$ '000         15        685     4,300    7,730    6,305   4,465        23,500
1/  Calculated by compounding the estimated rate of price increase in prior year and one half
the rate of increase in the year concermed.
-3 co



ANNEX 9
Table 1
PHILIPPIN&S
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPUR?0SE P2.0tUZCT: STAQE I
Equipment for Force Account Work
Unit      To-tal
Items                      Quantity      Cost       Cost
- -(FUS$ I o-o )- ---
Tractor, crawler 1h0 hp                            1        60            60
Tractor, crawler 90 hp                             6        35           210
Crane, crawler, dragline 18T                       3        75           225
Backhoe, crawler                                   1        30            30
Loader, crawler 1.5 cu. yd.                        6        43           258
Front End Loader, wheeled 1.5 cu. yd.              6        32           192
Grader, motorized 125 hp                           6        40           240
Roller, 3 wheel steel 12T                          3        20            60
Tractor, industrial w/backhoe loader               9        22           198
Truck, tractor w/25T trailer                       1        40            4o
Truck, water                                       3        17            51
Truck, forklift                                    1        20            20
Truck, dump 6-8 cu. yd.                           12        14           168
Truck, flatbed 6T                                  6        12            72
Truck, pickup 3/4T 4x4                             9         8.5          77
Jeep, wagon 4x4                                    9         9            81
Jeep, hxh                                         12         8            96
Mixer, concrete 1/2 cu. yd.                        6        12            72
Misc. Equipment & spare parts (lump sum)                                  50
Total                                                       2,200



ANNEX 9
Table 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MYACAT .RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STA3E I
Equipment for Operation and Maintenance
I.  Presently Available Equipment-
Quantity                 Acquisition Cost
District                Unit       Total
Items                   I       II        III     Total   Cost       Cost
Service Area (ha)          21,600   33,000   2O700   75,000  ---( US$ '00)--
Crane, crawler, dragline         1         1        1        3      68         2o4
18T
Backhoe, crawler 2/                                           1     22          22
Front End Loader, wheeled        2         2        2        6      27         162
1.5 cu. yd.
Tractor, crawler w/angle         2         2        2        6      26         156
blade, 90 hp
Roller, 3 wheel steel 12T        1         1        1        3      16          48
Roller, vibratory 3T             1         1        1        3       9          27
Truck, dump 6-8 cu. yd.          5         5        5       15      11         165
Truck, stake 6T                  2         2        2        6      10          60
Mobile Lub-e Shop 2/                                          1     56          56
Total                                                                900
1 /  Equipment purchesed for constructing Stage IA area, proposed for CGMM use in the
total Stage I service area.
2/ Common use.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
Page 2
PHIrLIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Equipment for Operation and Maintenance
II. New Equipment To Be Purchased-
Quantity
District                Unit       Total
Items                  I        II       III      Total   Cost      Cost
Service Area (ha)          21,600   33,000   20,400   75,000  -TUS$ '000)---
Loader, crawler 1.5 cu. yd.      1        1         1        3    43          129
Tractor, industrial w/           4        4         4       12    22          264
backhoe-loader
Tractor, crawler 140 hp 2/                                   1    60           60
Grader, motorized 125 hp         1        1         1        3    40          120
Truck, tractor (w/25T                                        1    4o           4o
trailer) 2/
Truck, forkTift 2/                                           1    20           20
Truck, mobile repair 2/                                      1    4o           40
Truck, pickup 1T                 1        1         1        3     9.5         28.5
Truck, pickup 3/4T 4x4           1        1         1        3     8.5         25.5
Truck, pickup 1/2T               2        2         2        6     7           42
Jeep, wagon 4x4                  2        2         2        6     9           54
Jeep, 4x4                        4        4         4       12     8           96
Bus, mini 20-seat 2/                                         1    16           16
Senior Personnel Carrier                                     2    12.5         25
4x4 2/
Motor Bike                      52       79        49      180     0.7        126
Mixer, concrete 1/2 cu. yd.      1        1         1        3    12           36
Compactor, 19x24 in. plate       1        1         1        3     5           15
w/generator
Pump, water 2 to 6"              2        2         2        6     1            6
Radio Transceiver (single                                    5     3.4         17
s.b.) 2/
Weed Cutter                    216      330       204      750      0.3       225
Service Shop Equipment                                                         80
(lump sum)
Miscellaneous Equipment                                                        60
(lump sum)
Sub-Total                                                        1,525
Spare Parts                                                                    75
Total New Equipment                                              1,600
Total O&M Equipment Cost for Stage I Service Area                2,500
(IA & IB)
1/  For use in the total Stage I service area.
2/ Common use.



ANNEX 9
Table 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIFURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
WATER MANAGEKENT TRAINING
List of Equipment and Vehicles
Item                               Estimated Cost
_  ~~~~~~~~~--- (US$)--
I.  Office and Training Equipment
Typewriter, 3 units                                   2,000
Mimeo machine, 3 units                                2,500
Desk calculator, 6 units                                500
Slide projector w/screen, 3 units                       500
Camera, 3 units                                         500
Movie projector, 1 unit                               2,500
Public address system, 3 units                       41,000
Tape recorder w/cassettes, 3 units                    1,000
Moisture meter, 3 units                               1,500
15,000
II.  Farm Equipment
Row seeder, 3 units                                   1,000
Transplantor, 3 units                                 1,000
Rotary weeder, 30 units                               1,500
Hand tractor w/attachments, 3 units                   3,500
Boom sprayer, 3 units                                 1,000
Thresher, 3 units                                     7,000
15,000
III.  Vehicles
Bicycle, 6 units                                        500
Motorcycle, 6 units                                   4,000
Pickup, half-ton, 3 units                            22, 000
Bus, 40-seat, 1 unit                                 16,500
43,000



AhIThX 9
Ta>ble 3
Page 2
Item                                Estimated Cost
---(US@)--
IV.  Hydromet Equipment
Portable Parshall flumes, water
level recorders, raingauges, and
evaporation pans (lump sum)                           15 ,000
V.  hiscellaneous Ecuioment
Provision for unlisted items of
equipment, apparatus and
instruments ( lump sum)                               122000
Total:                  1_02000



ANIEX 9
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
MACjAT -.IVER MULTIPUilPOSE P;tOJECT: STAGE I
STAGE II ENGINEERING STUDIES
Equipment, Materials & Supplies
Estimated Cost
---(US.$)----
1. Vehicles
Jeep Wiagon 4x4, 2 units                                      10,000
Jeep 4x4, 4 units                                            32,000
Pickup 3/4T, 2 units                                          15,000
Sedan, 2 units                                                15,000
Sub-Total                                          80,000
2. Equipment & Supplies
In situ rock testing equipment; seismic and
electric survey equipment; skid mounted core
drilling rigs; hydrodynamic pressure recording
instruments; and miscellaneous materials and
supplies (lump sum)                                         120,000
3.  Temporary Quarters & Offices
Mobile home, 2 bedroom, 3 units                               60,000
Mobile office, 10x4O feet, 2 units                            40,000
Sub-Total                                         100, 00
4. Temporary Power Facilities
Diesel generators & distribution                            210,coC
Facilities (lump sum)
TOTAL                                             £ 0)ooo



PHILIPPINES
MAkGAT RIVER. MULTIPliRPOSE PROJEr: STAGE I
Estimnated Schedule of Expenditures
Total
Item                          Cost      FY 761/ FY 77    FY 78    FY 79    FY B0    FY 81
------------------------ (uS$'Ooo) -
Project Service Area                 51,800    1,120   10,315    19,035   13,400   7,435        500
0 &1 M Equipment                      1,600       -      1,000       6oo      -        -        -
Water Management Training               520        45      185       125        80      60       25
Stage II Jrgineering Studies          6,180      750    2,740      2,000       690     -        -
Technical Assistance to MIA             400        90      105       105       100     -
Sub-Total                      60,500    2,oo5   14,345    21,860   14,270   7,495        525
lS&pected Price Increases            23,500    _275    32400       7,875    6,970   4,645    _335
Total Project Cost             84o000   2,280   17,745    29,735   21,240  12,140         860
I/ IPID Fiscal Years.
(CD
0 I



ANNEX 1O
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
KXGAzAT IJVE-.IKULTIPU.?LPSE PROJECT: STAGE I
?.st.imadted Schedule of  ;F hursements
IBRD Fiscel Year                Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                     US$ '000 Equivalent
Fiscal Year 1576
2nd                                  400
Fiscal Year 1977
1st                                1,900
2nd                                6,200
Fiscal Year 1978
1st                               12,200
2nd                               18,100
Fiscal Year 1979
lst                               24,600
2nd                               30,000
Fiscal Year 1980
1st                               34,200
2nd                               37,5oo
Fiscal Year 1981
1st                               40,200
2nd                               41,700
Fiscal Year 1982
1st                               42,000



ANIEX 10
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURP'OSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Proposed AllocatiolL of Proceeds of Loan
Costs                        Proposed
Category                                               Total       Foreign                 Loan
--------------(US$ million)--------------
I.   Civil Works:
Project Service Area  1/                          37.04       10.78
Water Management Training  2/                      0.23        0.06
Stage II Engineering Studies  3/                   1.65        0.11                   29.7*
Expected Price Increases  4/                      21-89 5..90
Sub-Total                                    60.81      16.85
* Of which (a) US$ 7.5 million for mDbilization and contractors' equipment, and (b) US$ 22.2 million
for other civil works. Disbursement for (a) will be 100% of foreign expenditure and for (b) 42%
of total expenditure.
II.  Equipment  5/                                       4.53       4.37
Expected Price Increases                           0.83        0.80                   5.2
Sub-Total                                     5.36        5.17
Disbursement will be 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, 100% of
expenditure (ex-factory) for locally manufactured equipment and 65% of total expenditure for
inported equipment procured locally.
III. Consultants & Technical Assistance  6/              3.64       3.17
Expected Price Increases                           0.78        0.67                   3.9
Sub-Total                                     4.42        3.84
Disbursement will be 100% of foreign expenditure or 60% of total expenditure.
IV. Una.located:
Physical Contingencies  7/                          8.70       3.14                   3.2
(Adiainistration & Engineering)                   (4.71)       -
TOTAL                                        84.00       29.00                  42.0
1/  Force account equipment (US$2.2 million) excluded and transferred to Cat. II, Annex 9, TablE 1.
2/  Excludes costsof consultants (US$0.06 million) and equipment (US$0.18 million) Annex 8, Table 3.
3/  Exclides costs of consultants (US$3.18 million) and equipment (US$0.55 million) Annex 8, TaEle 4.
4/  Exclades price increases for equipwent and consultants (US$1.61 million) Annex 8, Table 7.
5/  Inclides equipment for force account (US$2.2 million), 0 & M (US$1.6 million), 'Yater Management
Training (US$0.18 million)and Stage II Engineering Studies (US$0.55 million).
6/  Includes consulting services for Water Management Training (US$0.06 million), Stage II Engineering
StudLes (US$3.18 million) and Technical Assistance to NIA (US$0.4 million).
7/ See Annex 8, Table 1.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Organization & Management
1.        Since 1964 the overall responsibility for the national irrigation
systems in the Philippines has been vested in the National Irrigation Admin-
istration (NIA). The NIA was set up under Republic Act No. 3601 to in-
vestigate, study, improve, construct and administer all national irrigation
systems. It was given the power to carry out investigations into all avail-
able water resources in the country in order to utilize them for irrigation
and to collect water rates from the beneficiaries of the national irrigation
*systems. Presidential Decree No. 552 of September 11,. 1974, has -further
widened NIA's scope by giving it "broader powers and authority to undertake
concomitant projects such as flood control, drainage, land reclamation,
hydraulic power development, domestic water supply, road or highway construc-
tion, reforestation and projects to maintain ecological balance, in coordina-
tion with the agencies concerned". The NIA is financed by the Government
through the sale of bonds or from appropriations.
2.        The governing body of the NIA is the Board of Directors, composed
of a Chairman and five members, who are all ex-officio except for one member
appointed by the President of the Philippines on the recommendation of rice
and corn growers. Management of the NIA is vested in an Administrator
appointed by the President. The Administrator is also Vice-Chairman of the
Board. Directly below the Administrator there are three Assistant Admin-
istrators, respectively responsible for Special Projects, Engineering and
Operation, and Finance and Administration. Field services are managed by
eight regional and two sub-regional offices, together with a number of special
project offices.
3.        The NIA is in the process of being reorganized and expanded to meet
the wider responsibilities imposed on it by PD No. 552 and by the Government's
policy of accelerating irrigation development. The integration of the major
foreign assisted projects under a Special Projects Organization office to
avoid duplication and to increase transfer of experience between projects is
one of the first results of the ongoing reorganization, which is expected to
be completed by the end of 1975. The Special Projects Organization has been
given responsibility for the Bank-assisted Central Luzon projects and for
the Asian Development Bank (ADB) assisted Angat-Magat and Davao del Norte
projects (Chart No. 9533(R)). The NIA proposes to entrust responsibility for
the execution and operation of the Magat project to the Special Projects
Organization.
4.        Under the ADB-assisted Angat-Magat Integrated Agricultural Develop-
z- nt Project (AMIADP) an Assistant Project Manager stationed in San Mateo,



ANNEX 1 1
Page 2
is in charge of implementing the Magat portion of the project (Stage IA). He
reports to the AMIADP Project Manager in Quezon City, who in turn is respons-
ible to the Assistant Administrator for Special Projects. Under the proposed
Stage IB of the project the NIA would appoint the Regional Engineer for
Cagayan Valley (Region II) as Magat Project Manager. The Assistant Project
Manager for Stage IA would hold the same position for Stage IB and would be
in day-to-day charge of the construction phase of the project. NIA would
provide all the additional support staff and facilities required to allow
him to carry out his wider responsibilities.. The chain of command for
Stage IB would be from the Assistant Administrator Special Projects through
the Magat Project Manager to the Assistant Project Manager on the site
(Chart No. 9534). This arrangement would ensure coordination of policy at
the center and integration of execution on the site, without interfering with
the responsibilities of the two Project Managers for other aspects not
directly connected with the implementation of either portion of Stage I of
the Magat project. For construction there would be three engineering
divisions under the Assistant Project Manager: the first building Stage IA
in the existing MARIS; the second building the extension of the MARIS under
Stage IB; and the third building the portion of Stage IB centered on the
SIFRIS.
5.        The proposed organization for operation and maintenance is shown
in Chart No. 9535. For O&M purposes the distinction between Stage IA and
Stage IB would no longer be necessary and the entire project area of 75,000
ha would be administered by a single Project Manager. In addition to an
Equipment Division and an Administrative Division, an Agricultural Develop-
ment Division (ADD) would be set up. This would have the same training,
research and monitoring functions for Cagayan Valley irrigation projects
as its opposite number in the UPRP organization has for the Central Luzon
projects. There would also be a small division responsible for O&M of the
MARIS diversion dam and the main canal. In a future development of Stage Il
of the project it would be incorporated into a larger division principally
responsible for the main reservoir and dam. The project area would be
divided into three Irrigation Districts based on Santiago, San Mateo and
Roxas respectively. The smallest physical subdivision in the system would
be a 50-ha irrigation unit. Two such units would be the basic organizational
entity and would be supervised by a ditch tender. Five of the latter, or
500 ha, would form a water management section under a Water Management
Technologist. Five sections, or 2,500 ha, would make up a water management
division under a Supervisor. Three to four divisions, 7,500 to 10,000 ha,
would constitute a zone, under a Superintendent. The Santiago and Roxas
Irrigation Districts would be divided into two zones, while the San Mateo
Irrigation District would consist of three zones.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Cost of Operation and Maintenance
Annual Cost
P/ha
Salaries and Wages                                   63
Equipment Costs                                      34
Materials and Supplies                                3
Total                          100



ANNEX 12
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Supporting Agricultural Services
Extension
1.        A number of Government organizations currently has dealings with
the farmers. The principal agencies are:
(a) The Bureau of Agriculturai Extension (BAE);
(b) The Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI);
(c) The Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR);
(d) The Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA);
(e)  The Department of Local Government and Community
Development (DLGCD);
(f)  The National Grains Authority (NGA): and
(g) The National Irrigation Administration (NIA)
In addition there are non-Government Rural Banks (RB).
2.        In the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP) the need for coordinat-
ing the various agencies providing services to the farmers was clearly felt.
An Agricultural Development Coordinating Council (ADCC) was established for
the project to provide day-to-day control and coordination of the activities
of the various agencies within the project area. The ADCC consisted of the
Provincial Heads of all the participating agencies. The arrangement is
working well in UPRP and a similar organization is being set up for the
Tarlac Irrigation Systems Improvement Project and the Rural Development
project on Mindoro. An ADCC based on Isabela Province would be established
for the proposed project.
3.        The BAE is mainly responsible for agricultural extension, with
technical support provided by the BPI. A total of 152 agricultural tech-
nicians services the farmers in the municipalities covering the project
area. The technicians are all graduates and belong mainly to the BAE and
DAR. The ratio of technicians to farmers is about 1:300.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
4.        The project would be organized on the basis of irrigation units
of 50 ha in the same manner as the UPRP. The 20-25 farmers in such a unit
would be given every incentive to work together as a group. The NIA would
schedule irrigation on a rotational basis thus promoting a uniformity of
of operations within each unit at any given time. The rotational area would
also be the basic unit for the provision of credit and the building block
for the eventual organization of irrigation associations and cooperatives.
In UPRP the NIA is assigning a Water Management Technologist to every 10 units.
The same staffing pattern would be applied to the Magat project (see Annex 11).
The water management staff would supplement the existing extension personnel
provided by the various government agencies and would help to increase exten-
sion coverage in the project area.
5.        New extension work items to be emphasized would include improved
irrigation and drainage practices; the importance of scheduling operations;
the use of good quality seed and even planting; proper fertilizer application;
weed and pest control; and the use of tillage and threshing machinery.
Research
6.        There are two BPI research stations in Isabela province:  the
Cagayan Valley station at San Mateo and the Ilagan station at Ilagan. The
former deals principally with rice and the latter with upland crops. The
work on rice is focused on varietal screening, foundation seed production
and pure seed certification. In addition to the two BPI stations there is
a Bureau of Soils unit, based at Ilagan, working on fertilizers, soil
fertility and soil erosion. NIA has good working relations with the Central
Luzon State University, the Agricultural College of the University of the
Philippines and the International Rice Research Institute. The project
would be able to draw on research backup from all these sources.
Fertilizer
7.        Annual consumption of fertilizer in the project area currently
amounts to less than 12,000 tons, of which a little less than 50% is
sulphate of ammonia. Application rates for all fertilizers run at a level
of about 100 kg/ha in the wet season and 200 kg/ha in the irrigated dry
season crop. At full development the project area would require some
24,000 tons of fertilizer annually, of which about 35% would be urea and
the balance anmonium phosphate. In terms of nutrients the average rate of
application per crop season would be of 60 kg/ha nitrogen and 30 kg/ha
phosphoric acid. There are 20 commercial distributors in the project area.
The supply channels are adequate to handle the increased demand.
Seed
8.        About 4,800 tons of rice seed per annum are currently used in the
project area. Seed is obtained by retention from the farmers' commercial
production and from seed-growing cooperatives. The Cagayan Valley station
produces foundation and registered seed for bulking by seed-growing



ANNEX 12
Page 3
cooperatives or selected individual farmers. At full development the
project would use approximately 5,200 tons of rice seed per annum. There
would be no change in the existing 50 kg/ha seed rate. On the assumption
that rice seed would be renewed every five crop seasons, the estimated
annual requirement of quality seed for the project area at full development
would amount to 2,100 tons. No difficulties are foreseen in supplying this
amount.
Farmers' Organization
9.        As part of the Agrarian Reform program the Government through the
DLGCD is promoting the formation of pre-cooperative farmers' organizations,
based on the barrio or hamlet. The organizations would serve as channels
for the inflow of technical services, credit and inputs and as assembly
points for produce intended for market. It is hoped that at a future date
the organizations would grow into full-fledged, formally constituted
cooperatives. This approach to cooperative organization fits in well with
the 50-ha irrigation unit approach adopted by NIA in the existing Central
Luzon projects. The organizations are new and still unproven but they
appear to hold considerable promise and would be set up in the Magat
project.
10.       The NIA is committed to the creation of irrigation associations
amongst the farmers which would eventually assume a large part of the
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the national irrigation
systems. Without losing sight of the ultimate objective, the main thrust
of NIA's efforts in UPRP and the other Central Luzon projects has been to
organize the farmers within the 50-ha units primarily for production and
water management. The immediate aim is to demonstrate to the farmers that
working together and using water efficiently is possible and profitable.
Once this has been established a realistic framework for setting up irriga-
tion associations would exist. The project area would be expected to follow
this example and gain from the experience of the Central Luzon projects.
Credit
11.       Some 10-20% of the farmers in the project area finance their
requirement of farm inputs and hired labor from their own resources. The
remainder use some form of credit. The principal sources are:
(a) banks, notably the Rural Banks (RB), the Philippine
National Bank (PNB), the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP) and private banks;
(b) the Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA);
(c) input dealers, marketing organizations and millers;
and
(d) money lenders.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
There are 11 RBs in the project area, together with three branch offices of
the PNB and one of the DBP.
12.       To ensure the success of the Agrarian Reform program (Annex 3),
the Government has proceeded to strengthen the credit institutions and to
facilitate the granting of production credit to small farmers who previously
depended on the landlords for their requirements. RBs have been authorized
rediscounting privileges of 100%, Government guarantees of up to 85% of the
loans made and low-cost money from the Central Bank. The easier credit thus
made available is employed under a system of "supervised credit", which
includes the provision of technical services to the borrower to ensure that
recommended practices, including variety, fertilizer and agrochemical inputs,
are adopted. Loans granted under supervised credit are not secured by
collateral, but are covered by a Government guarantee; the interest is at 12%
per annum and the loan is for a period of six months. For the 11 months ending
on March 31, 1974, a total of P 28.0 million (US$4.1 million) was issued as
production credit to rice farmers in Isabela province. The PNB accounted for
about 58% of the total, the RBs for 40% and the ACA for the balance. The area
covered by the credit amounted to 35,400 ha.
13.       Under the "Masagana 99" program production credit was given at
the rate of up to P 700/ha, made up of P 380 for inputs and P 320 for
services, which included a provision for payment of labor and an element of
subsistence. The Government has since raised the rate to P 1,200/ha, made
up of P 670 for inputs and P 530 for services. Such an increase would be
adequate to meet the greater production costs estimated at full development.
Assuming that at full project development about 10% of the farmers in the
project area would find their requirements of inputs and hired labor from
their own resources, some 22,000 farmers would need credit from institutional
sources. At a loan level of up to P 1,200/ha the total annual credit require-
ment at full development would amount to P 81.0 million (US$11.7 million).
The existing credit institutions are expected to be able to meet the require-
ment.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns & Production
Present Cropping Pattern
1.        Some 32,000 ha in Stage IA of the project, the existing MARIS, are
currently cultivated to rice in the wet season. During the dry season some
16,000 ha are cropped, giving an overall cropping intensity on the existing
system of 150%. In Stage IB of the project 8,350 ha of the existing SIFRIS
are currently cultivated to rice in the wet season and about 3,400 ha in the
dry season for a cropping intensity of 141%. In the rainfed areas adjoining
the MARIS and SIFRIS, that would be developed under Stage IB of the project,
only a wet season rice crop is grown on 26,650 ha. The present overall
cropping intensity of Stage IA is 140%, of Stage IB 110% and of Stage I as
a whole 126%. Rice is by far the most important crop in the area. There
is some tobacco, corn and vegetable cropping, but most of this is in the
Magat river flood plain, outside the boundaries of the proposed project.
Annual paddy production from Stage I is estimated at 189,000 tons, with
120,000 tons from Stage IA and 69,000 tons from Stage IB. The present
cropping pattern and production estimates and projected future conditions
without the project are given in Tables 1 and 2.
2.        Wet season irrigated rice is grown between July and January.
Transplanting is spread over an eight-week period between July and September
and harvesting takes place over a similar period between mid-November and
mid-January. The dry season crop is grown between November and May, with
the bulk of the transplanting in December-January and the harvest in April
and May. The rainfed wet season crop generally lags between four and six
weeks behind the irrigated wet season crop. While a majority of farmers
adheres to the timetables described above, there is considerable slippage,
particularly in the irrigated areas. As a result, all stages of crop growth
can be found in the project area throughout the year. The consequent
continuous cropping militates against efficient water management and crop
sanitation. All rice is transplanted from field nurseries onto previously
puddled land.
3.        The great majority of the farmers in the existing systems grows
short-strawed high yielding varieties, while in the rainfed areas the farmers
rely wholly on the lower-yielding, but hardier traditional varieties. The
average paddy yield in the rainfed areas is about 1.6 ton/ha, on the irrigated
areas the yield in the wet season is about 2.2 ton/ha and 2.3 ton/ha in the
dry season. The low yields are due to unsatisfactory water management,



ANNEX 13
Page 2
difficulty in getting the crop out of the field because of lack of roads,
and poor farming practices. The latter are exemplified by uneven trans-
planting, high weed infestations, insufficient use of fertilizers and agro-
chemicals and untimeliness of operations.
Future Cropping Pattern
4.        In the absence of the project the rate of increase in yield in
the rainfed areas is estimated at about 1.5% per annum and would most pro-
bably be due to an increase in the area under high yielding varieties. In
the existing systems the yields in both wet and dry season crops are
estimated to increase by some 1.7% per annum as a result of gradual improve-
ments in crop management. The use of inputs would be expected to increase
with the availability of greater supplies of credit and more extension
efforts as part of the Government's campaign for national self-sufficiency
in rice. Existing cropping intensities would remain unchanged in the
absence of additional water supplies and improvement of the system.
5.        The expected changes in the cropping pattern and in crop produc-
tion under the project are shown in Table 3. In Stage IA some 40,000 ha
would be provided with wet season irrigation, of which 8,000 ha are cur--
rently rainfed. Better water management and improved facilities would also
allow for an increase in dry season cropping of about 9,000 ha. Cropping
intensity would rise from the present 140% to 162%. In Stage IB of the
project a total of 35,000 ha would be provided with wet season irrigation,
of which 26,650 are currently rainfall dependent. Better management would
only allow a small increase in dry season cropping for a cropping intensity
of 111% compared to the current 110%. For Stage I as a whole the project
would provide wet season irrigation on 75,000 ha and dry season irrigation
on 29,000 ha for a cropping intensity of 139% compared to the existing 126%.
The proposed cropping pattern based solely on rice is consistent with soils
and topography and with the customs of the local people.
Future Yields
6.        With good water control, adequate supplies of credit and inputs
and a strengthened extension service, future paddy yields are expected to
be 4.0 ton/ha and 4.2 ton/ha for the wet and dry season crops respectively
(Table J). The projected yields would be reached five years after the
introduction of water.
7.        The improved yields would be obtained from the introduction of
high yielding varieties throughout the project area, better land preparation
through greater use of machinery, certified seed, row planting, heavier
fertilizer input and greater expenditure on crop protection and weed control.
The improved road network envisaged under the project would allow better
access to the farms, thus facilitating the inflow of inputs and outflow of
produce. The projected yields are already being obtained by some farmers
in the irrigated areas who are using good farming practices.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
Development Constraints
8.        The project would bring a change in the cropping calendar, a 10%
increase in labor requirement, a greater degree of mechanization of both
land preparation and harvesting, and a demand for additional drying and
storage facilities. The most important issues are examined briefly.
9.        Cropping Calendars.  To ensure efficient utilization of resources
and the avoidance of technical and organizational bottlenecks, cropping
calendars must be prepared as a basis for extension and water management
activities. Chart No. 9536 shows a provisional calendar. The main differ-
ences between the proposed and existing practices are to be found in the
shift of the dry season crop from November-May to a shorter period in
March-August. This would allow a 30-day period for system maintenance in
February, which is the driest month of the year. Operations for the wet
season crop would gain momentum in October-November instead of in August-
September.  The later start would allow for fuller utilization of peak
rainfall. The proposed calendar would also permit harvesting of the wet
season crop to take place under drier conditions than at present.
10.       Labor Availability.  The supply and demand for labor with and with-
out the project are examined in detail in Annex 16.
11.       Mechanization.  At present some 80% of the rainfed area relies
entirely on animal-drawn equipment for land preparation. In the irrigated
areas machinery is' used for land preparation on about 50% of the area in
the wet season crop and 70% in the dry season crop. With improved water
management, better access to the fields and the need for tighter scheduling
of operations to maximize water use, it is estimated that the use of machin-
ery would increase to the point that some 80% of land preparation in the
wet season crop and about 90%7 in the dry season crop would be mechanical.
It is anticipated that the machinery, mostly four-wheel tractors and rotary
tillers, would be operated mainly by contractors, as is currently the
practice.
12.       garvesting.  The rice is harvested by sickle and the bundles may
be left for a few days in the field to dry, depending on the weather.
Threshing is either carried out manually by beating the panicles on a
slatted table or by mechanical threshers. The latter are fairly large
machines and need firm ground conditions. At present only some 20% of the
rainfed area is threshed mechanically, while machinery is used on about 60%
of the irrigated area in the wet season crop area and on 70% in the dry season
crop. Under project conditions of much better access to the fields and
improved field drainage, it is assumed that some 90% of the cropped area
would be threshed mechanically. This would not present any difficulties
as existing contractors are enterprising and can be expected to meet the
requirements.



ANNEX 13
Page 4
13.       Drying and Storage.  The bulk of the threshed paddy is currently
sun-dried on whatever suitable surfaces are available. A few of the rice
mills own small artificial driers, but they are seldom used because of the
high operating cost compared to sun-drying. All mills have sun-drying capa-
city and the National Grains Authority (NGA) proposes to supply a number of
mobile driers. The arrangements appear to be adequate for the present paddy
crop of 189,000 tons. At full development the annual production from the
project would total 422,000 tons. Production from the wet season crop would
double, while the dry season crop would increase by 173%. The wet season
crop harvest should not present problems as it would take place in January-
February, two of the driest months in the year. Some expansion in drying
facilities, both solar and mechanical, would be needed to deal with the
increased output of the dry season crop harvest anticipated for the
wetter July-August period. The project would provide additional solar drying
facilities attached to the Water Management Technologist stations. The DLGCD
is currently engaged in a program to provide every barrio with a paved area
to be used for sport, recreation and drying of crops. The millers are aware
of the need for drying and can be expected to provide whatever additional
facilities are required. Storage capacity within the project area is adequate
for present production, but would need to be expanded to meet the increased
crop yields. In addition to on-farm storage, there are public and private
sector storage facilities. The NGA is already engaged in building additional
storage facilities and the private sector is expected to follow suit to meet
rising paddy production from the project area.
14.       Processing.  There are 208 privately owned rice mills and hullers
in the project area. Assuming a 12-hour working day and a 200-day milling
season, the mills have an annual capacity of about 320,000 tons of paddy
compared to the current project area production of 189,000 tons. No dif-
ficulties are anticpated in providing the extra milling capacity needed at
full development as the private sector is enterprising and has access to
sources of capital.
Marketing
15.       The farmer may sell his surplus paddy to a middleman, store it in
a private or Government-owned warehouse in the hope of obtaining a better
price, have it milled and sell the rice to a trader, or sell the paddy to
the NGA at the Government support price. While the Government is involved
in the marketing sector, there is no authority with specific responsibility
for marketing. The part played by Government agencies and farmers' market-
ing cooperatives is remarkably small. With the emphasis currently being
placed on the development of cooperatives as an essential support to
agrarian reform, it is likely that at full project development, cooperatives
would play a larger role in marketing paddy.



PHILIPPINES
M&GAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Present Production from the Project Area 1/
Gross Value                Net Value     Net Returns
Area    Paddy     Farm Gate          of       Production       of            from
Yield       Price       Production      Cost        Production    Project Area
(ha)  (ton/ha)    (P/ton)       --------------(P/ha)----------------       (P million)
3/
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice      A          32,000    2.2        1,905           4,190       1,i80         3,010             96.3
i f              B           8,350      "                          It          it            t               25.1
if      "AB                   ,50                  i "             "           "             o             121.4
Rainfed Rice        A            8,000    1.6       1,905           3,050         830         2,220             17.8
"I    "B                    26,650      ", "                       "           "                            59.1
AB          34,650      t          o f                         "                            76.9
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice      A          16,000    2.3        1,905           4,380       1,250         3,130             50.1
"I     "I        B           3,400      "          "                           t o           "I              106
"       "       AB          19.400 "A              "               "9"4                                      60.7
TOTAL            A          56,000                                                                         164.2
B          38,400                                                                          94.8
AB          94,400                                                                         259.0
Cropping Intensity 4/ A. 140%
B = 110%
AB= 126%
1/ A = Stage IA
B = Stage IB
AB = Stage I Total.
2/ Based on Annex 15, Table 1.  Excludes the cost of labor.
3/ Without accounting for labor.                                                                                         m X
4/ Based on a net irrigable area of: A = 40,000 ha
B = 35,000 "
AB = 75,000 W



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Projected Future Production without the Project (1984) 1/
Gross Value                 Net Value      Net Returns
Area     Paddy      Farm Gate          of        Production       of             from
Yield        Price        Production       Cost       Production    Project Area
(ha)   (ton/ha)      (P/tpn)       ---------------(P/ha)    ------- -           (P million)
Wet Season                                                                               3!           3/
Irrigated Rice       A          32,000      2.5           930          2,325           820         1,505            48.2
it "B                8,350       "            "              "             "             "              12.5
AB          40          "            "              "              "             "              60.7
Rainfed Rice         A           8,000      1.8           930          1,675           515         1,160             9.3
if     to          B          26,650      "                                                        "              30.9
of     if         AB          34,650      it           "                                                          40.2
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice       A          16,000      2.6           930          2,420           840         1,580            25.3
to "B                3,400       o            f              o             "             I               5.4
it "    AB          1940         "                                                                      30.7
TOTAL             A          56,000                                                                              82.8
B         38,400                                                                               48.8
AB          94,400                                                                             131.6
Cropping Intensity 4/ A =140%
B =110%
AB =126%
1/ A = Stage IA
B = Stage IB
AB = State I Total.
2/ Based on Annex 15, Table 1.  Excludes the cost of labor.
3/ Without accounting for labor.
4/ Based on a net irrigable area of: A = 40,000 ha
B = 35,000
AB - 75,000 "



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Production from the Project Area at Full Development (1984) 1/
Gross Value                Net Value       Net Returns
Area     Paddy      Farm Gate          of        Production       of            from
Yield       Price        Production       Cost       Production    Project Area
(ha)   (ton/ha)      (P/ton)      ---------------(P/ha)---------               (P million)
Wet Season                                                                              2/           3/
Irrigated Rice       A         40,000    4.0            930           3,720        1,190         2,530           101.2
If     "I         B         35,000      "i                          if           t6            it              88.5
I       "I      AB          75,000     "            "                                                        189.7
Rainfed Rice         A             -       -            --
it    "I           B            -        -            -
If    "I          AB            -        -            --
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice       A         25,000    4.2            930           3,905        1,240         2,665            66.6
"       "6        B          4,000                  it "6 "                       "                            10.7
AB         29,000                                                                             7 "  
TOTAL             A         65,000                                                                            167.8
B         39,000                                                                             99.2
AB        104,000                                                                            267.0
Cropping Intensity 4/ A =1627.
B =111%
AB =139%
I/ A = Stage IA
B = Stage IB
Ase =  Stage  I Total.
2/ Based on Annex T    Table 1.  Excludes the cost of labor.ota
3/Without accounting for labor.
4/ Based on a net irrigable area of: A = 40,000 ha
B = 35,000 "
AB = 75,000 "



ANNEX 13
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Summary of Cropping Pattern and Production 1/
Cropped Area            Paddy Production
Present     Future         Present     Future
-------(ha)                ----('COO tons)---
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice    A            32,000      40,000          70.4        160.0
it     it      B             8,350      35,000          18.4        140.0
of     Is   wAB             40,350      75,000          88.8        300.0
Rainfed Rice      A             8,000          -           12.8         -
it    "B                    26,650          -           42.6
it    "AB                   34,650          -           55.4         -
Sub-Total         A            40,000      40,000          83.2        160.0
B           35,000       35,000         61.0        140.0
AB           75,000       75,000        TT2           W-7
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice    A            16,000       25,000         36.8        105.0
it     if      B             3,400       4,000           7.8        16.8
"1      "    AB             19,400      29,000          44.6      T121.8
TOTAL          A            56,000      65,000         120.0        265.0
B           38,400       39,000         68.8        156.8
AB           94,400      104,000        188.        Z?1TS
Cropping Intensity  A             140%         162%
B            110%         111%
AB            126%         139%
1/ A = Stage IA
B = Stage IB
AB = Stage I Total.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Market Prospects and Prices
Market Prospects
1.        One of the main goals of Government policy is to attain self-
sufficiency in basic foods, especially rice and corn. The deficit in rice,
the main staple food crop, has been-a persistent problem for the Philippines.
Official figures show that for 1963-67 the Philippines imported an average
of about 300,000 tons of rice annually. Although there were no imports of
rice in 1969 or 1970, rice stocks declined in those years. Rice imports
were again over 300,000 tons in 1971, rose to 456,000 tons in 1972 due to
the disastrous floods that year and were 307,000 tons in 1973. Rice imports
for the nine months ended September 30, 1974 were about 168,000 tons, con-
siderably less than the 232,000 tons imported during the corresponding
nine months of 1973.
2.        Official paddy production figures for the crop year ending June 30,
1974 show that some 5.6 millions tons of paddy were produced from a harvested
area of 3.4 million ha, averaging around 1.6 ton/ha. This production is
some 27% above the poor 1972/73 harvest and 4.5% over the previous high of
1970/71. With ppopulation around 40 million, converting paddy to milled rice
at the official average recovery rate of 67% and adding 300,000 tons con-
sumed out of imports, per capita absorption of milled rice in 1973/74 was
about 100 kg. Based on the current population forecast of 50 million in
1980 and assuming that annual per capita absorption of milled rice remains
at 100 kg, total demand for rice in the Philippines in 1980 would be around
5.0 million tons, equivalent at the official average recovery rate to 7.2
million tons of paddy. To meet this demand, paddy output would have to
increase by about 4% to 5% per year between 1974 and 1980. This is
approximately the rate achieved during the late 1960s when high yielding
rice varieties were first introduced. While the Government's Masagana
campaign to increase rice production has met with considerable success,
there is still some doubt that the Philippines will be self-sufficient in
rice by the early 1980s. In any case, no difficulties in marketing the
additional production from the project area are foreseen. The project area
has traditionally supplied rice for consumption in Manila and neighboring
Cagayan Valley provinces as well as locally, and it is expected that this
pattern will continue with the project.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Prices
3.        Since 1957 the Government has set an annual farm gate support
price for paddy to encourage production and to allow some purchases of paddy
by Government to build stabilization stocks. Responsibility for operating
the system rested with an independent body, the Rice and Corn Administration,
which operated unsatisfactorily. On September 28, 1972 the responsibility
for rice and corn price stabilization was transferred to a National Grains
Authority under the Secretary of Agriculture.
4.        During the 1950s and early 1960s the support price remained
virtually unchanged and was P 9.5 per cavan 1/ (P 216/ton) in 1961. There-
after, it was gradually increased and by 1971 it reached P 20.0 per cavan
(P 454/ton). Although no precise figures are available to compare the
annual average market and support prices for paddy before 1965, the Sector
Survey 2/ shows the market and support price about 10% higher in 1965, and
the support price about 10% higher from 1966 to 1970. Since 1971 the market
price has tended to exceed the support price.
5.        The behavior of market prices in relation to the support price is
consistent with the record of domestic paddy output during the past decade.
In the early 1960s, domestic production was unable to meet the growing
demand for rice and this tended to raise market prices above the support
price. After the mid-1960s, increased production as a result of the spread
of high yielding varieties improved the balance between domestic production
and consumption and tended to depress market prices. During the last three
to four years the trend has reversed and the support price has become
increasingly less operative. As a result of continuing inflation and to
encourage farmers to increase paddy production, the Government has continued
to raise the official support price for paddy, which at the beginning of
1975 was P 50 per cavan (P 1 ,000/ton).
6.        Through 1972, the farm gate support price for paddy and the
domestic consumer price for rice kept pace with changes in the world market
price for rice. Since then, however, in an attempt to keep domestic prices
down in the face of unprecendentedly high world market prices for rice, the
Government has decided at least temporarily to subsidize consumers in urban
and rice deficit rural areas. The low official ceiling price for rice and
correspcijdingly low farm gate price for paddy are maintained by Government
sales of imported rice on the domestic market below cost. Although official
figures on the amount of the subsidy are not available, and the transaction
is obscured by a large proportion of government-to-government and barter
arrangements, a rough calculation indicates the order of magnitude. The
Bank's commodity analysts give the 1975 price for Thai 25%-35% broken rice
1/   Before 1974 a "cavan" or sack of paddy was equivalent to 44 kg.  Since
1974 the official weight of a cavan of paddy is set at 50 kg.
2/   IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey, Philippines, May 2, 1973 (Report
No. 391-PH). Annex 10 Table 13.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
as US$435 per ton. Adding US$45 ocean freight yields a cif Manila price of
US$480 (P 3,310) per ton. The official domestic consumer price at the
beginning of 1975 was P 1.9 per kg. or P 1,900 per ton, which represents a
subsidy of P 1,410 (US$204) per ton. Assuming that 250,000 tons of imported
rice are consumed in 1975, the total subsidy would be some US$51 million.
7.        The Bank projects the world market price of Thai 25%-30% broken
rice to fall (at constant 1975 prices) from US$435 per ton fob Bangkok to
around US$210 per ton in the 1980-85 period. These projections have been
used to estimate the present and future farm gate prices of paddy in the
economic analysis. The corresponding farm gate prices fall from P 1,905
per ton (P 95 per cavan approximately) in 1975 to P 930 per ton (P 47 per
cavan approximately) in 1980 and beyond. It is assumed that over this
period the Government will maintain the current price ceiling for rice
of P 1.90 per kg. but allow the current support price for paddy of P 50 per
cavan to fall to P 47 at constant 1975 prices. This Implies that by 1980
the subsidy to consumers will fall to zero and the market farm gate price
and support price for paddy will be equal. The projected price structure
for rice for 1975 and to 1980 and beyond as used in the economic analysis
is presented in Table 1.



PHIIEPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECP: STAGE I
Price Stracture for Rice, 1975-1980 and Beond
(P/ton at Constant Mid-1975 Prices)
1975        1976         1977         1978         1979         1980 & Beyond
Rice
Export price Thai                         ($ 435)     ($ 374)      ($ 309)      ($ 253)      ($ 223)           ($ 210)
25%-30% brokens fob Bangkok               3,002        2,581        2,132        1,746        1,539             1,449
Ocean Freight & Insurance                      310          310          310          310          310              310
Manila Handling Charges                         35           35           35           35           35               35
Transport Isabela to Manila                   -280         -280         -280         -280         -280             -280
Price of Rice ex-Mix, Isabela                3,067        2,646       2,197        1,811        1,604             1,514
Milling Costs (equivalent to value
of by-products)                              -            -            -           -             -                -
Paddy
Paddy equivalent price, Isabela
(63% recovery)                          1,930        1,665        1,385        1,140        1,010               955
Handling & Transport Costs,
Farm to Mill                              -25          -25          -25          -25          -25               -25
Farm-gate Paddy Price                     1,905        1,640        1,360        1,115          985               930
(P/cavan approximately)                   (95)        (82)          (68)         (56)         (49)              (47)
m X
rD 4



ANN 1 5
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Crop and Farm Budgets
1.        The existing and proposed cropping patterns are given in Annex 13.
This annex shows the following:
(a) Production costs for irrigated and rainfed rice under
present and future "with" and "without" project conditions
(Table 1). Present costs are based on the results of a
survey carried out by NIA and interviews in the area during
appraisal. In the absence of the project little change in
the level of inputs is expected in the rainfed areas. Some
improvement of husbandry is assumed in the irrigated areas.
The input levels for future "with project" conditions are
based on recommendations by the Bureau of Soils and the
Bureau of Plant Industry and the assumption of increased
mechanizatlon of cultivation and threshing.
(b)  Monthly labor requirements for the dry and wet season crops
based on present and proposed cropping calendars (Table 2).
It is assumed that under project conditions the labor
requirement for land preparation and harvesting would be
reduced by the use of machinery while there would be an
increase in the labor requirement for crop management,
including such activities as weeding, fertilizer and
pesticide application and irrigation.
(c)  Crop budgets under present and future conditions "with"
and "without" the project (Table 3).
(d)  Farm budgets for typical family farms of 2.0, 3.0 and 4.0 ha
for both Stages IA and IB of the project (Tables 4 and 5).
The budgets are calculated on a cash flow basis and only
hired labor has been costed. The monthly requirement for
hired labor is calculated by comparing the labor requirement
with the availability per farm of a maximum of 40 man-days/
month and a total of 480 man-days/year of family labor.
Future water charges are at the level NIA has agreed should
be applied to the Pampanga, Penaranda, Tarlac and Rural
Development projects at full development, namely 3.5 cavans
of paddy/ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans/ha in the dry
season. Payment for land is calculated in accordance with



ANNEX 15
Page 2
Presidential Decree No. 27 on the assumption that the majority
of farmers would be amortizing owners under the Agrarian Reform
Program.   In Stage IB separate "future with project" budgets are
shown for newly irrigated and rehabilitated land. The "newly
irrigated" area covering the present rainfed area would receive
irrigation only in the wet season and would account for 76%
of the total area of Stage IB. The "rehabilitated" area covering
the existing SIFRIS would get some dry season irrigation.



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
1/
Rice Crop Production Costs-
Present                                           Future  Without Project                             Future With Project
Wet Season                Dry Season                    Wet Season                   Dry Season            Wet Season          Dry SeasonV
Cash Inputs (P/ha)              Rainfed         Irrigated          Irrigated             Rainfed          Irrigated          Irrigated              Irrigated          Irrigated
Cultivation                      90             125               150                     100             140               160                    150                170
Seed                            100  (50)       105  (60)         105  (60)                50              55                60                     60                 60
Fertilizer                       65  (45)       400 (245)         470 (290)                55             240               270                    410                410
Agro-Chemicals                   30              40                50                      60              80               100                    230                240
Harvesting                      525 (275)       485 (255)         450 (235)              220              270               215                    275                290
Other                            20              25                25                      30              35                35                     65                 70
Interest                             (40)            (60)              (65)                    (40)            (65)              (70)                    (100)               (100)
Total Cash Inputs         830 (550)    1,180 (810)         1,250 (875)              515 (555)       820 (885)          840 (910)           1,190 (1,290)       1,240 (1,340)
Labor In uts 3
(man_daysa
n y7ha)
Land Preparation                 28              28                28                      25              25                22                     20                  20
Planting                         32              32                32                      32              32                32                     32                  32
Crop Management                  14              15                18                      15              18                21                     29                  30
Harvesting                       26              25                22                      23              20                20                     19                  18
Total Labor Inputs        100             100                100                     95               95                95                    100                100
1/  Economic prices based on world market prices for rice and fertilizer for use in economic analysis.  Figures in parentheses are financial prices prevailing at appraisal for
use in farm budgets.  Costs at present are higher than in future because world market prices for rice (seed) and fertilizers are projected to fall (at 1975 constant prices)
and because threshing, which is now done mainly by hand on a crop-sharing basis is expected to become more mechanized in the future without the project, and 907 mechanized
at full development with the project.
2/ Based on the following assumptions at full development.
(a)  Cultivation - Mechanical 90% @ P180/ha.
Animal     10% @ P701ha.
(b)  Seed rate 50 kg/ha @ average P1.20/kg.
(c)  Fertilizer - Urea 80 kg/ha: 16-20-0 150 kg.
Urea @ P1.89/kg; 16-20-0 @ Pl.72/kg.
(d)  Agro-Chemicals - Lump sum.
(e)  Harvesting - cutting by hand and 10% manual threshing @ 20% of yield value
- 90% mechanical threshing @ 6% of yield value
(f)  Interest @ 12% per year on production credit for 9 months on 90% of cash inputs.
3/  Excluding labor handling farm machinery, the cost of which is included under cash inputs.



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Monthly Labor Requirements for Various Rice Crops (man-days/ha) 1/ 2/
Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr      ay    Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec    Total
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice        P        2       -      -       -      -       -     18     24      20      8      13     15       100
W        -       -      -       -      -      -      17     22      20     11      13     12        95
W       16       8      -       -      -      -       2      5      13     23      21     12       100
Rainfed Rice          P         9     13     13       -      -       -      -      12     13     15      12      13      100
W        8      13     10       -      -      -       -     10      12     15      12     15        95
W
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice        P       23       9      6      13     10       -      -       -      -       3     18      18      100
W       23      10      8      11     10      -       -      -       -      -      15     18        95
W        -       -      4      25     29     12      17     13       -      -       -       -      100
V/ P = Present.
W = Future Without Project.
W = Future With Project.
2/ Excluding Labor Handling Farm Machinery.
I X
U'



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Rice Crop Budgets 1/
Present                            Future Without Project                Future With Project
Wet Season            Dry Season            Wet Season             Dry Season        Wet Season   Dry Season
Rainfed    Irrigated    Irrigated          Rainfed    Irrigated       Irrigated         Irrigated    Irrigated
Yield                     (ton/ha)  1.6          2.2           2.3              1.8          2.5            2.6               4.0           4.2
Farm Gate Price            (P/ton)1,000        1,000         1,000              930          930            930               930           930
Gross Value of Production (P/ha)1,600          2,200         2,300            1,675        2,325          2,420            3,720          3,905
Production Costs,
Excluding Labor             (P/ha)  550          810           875              555          885            910             1,290         1,340
Net Value of Production,
Excluding Labor             (P/ha)1,050        1,390         1,425            1,120        1,440          1,510             2,430         2,565
Labor Requirements
(man-days/ha)                       100          100           100               95           95             95              100            100
1/ Financial costs and prices are used, based on Table 1.
kn



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Farm Budgets: Stage IA
_____------- 2.0 ha Farm --------------         --------------3.0 ha Farm----------_-            ------------ 4.0 ha Farm--------------
Present          Future w/Project               Present            Future w/Prolect              Present           Future w/Project
Rainfed   Irrigated       Irripated             RainfFed    rrigated        Irrigated            Rainfed   Irrigated        Irrigated
Transplanted Rice               (ha)      2.0        3.0             3.2                  3.0         4.5             4.8                  4.0         6.0             6.4
Total Cropped Area              (ha)      2.0        3.0             3.2                  3.0         4.5             4.8                  4.0         6.0             6.4
Cropping Intensity             (7M)      100         150             162                 100          150             162                  100         150             162
Total Paddy Production 1/    (ton)       3.2         6.7            13.0                  4.8        10.1             19.6                 6.4        13.4            26.1
Gross Value of Production 11  (P)    3,200         6,700          12,090               4,800       10,100          18,230                6,400      13,400          24,275
Production Costs
(Excluding Labor)               (P)    1.100       2,495           4,190               1,650        3.740           6,280                2,200      4.990            8.375
Costs of Hired Farm Labor 2/  (P)        -           120              50                   30         745              460                 505       1,475           1,260
Net Value of Production
(Before Water Charges)         (P)    2,100        4,085           7,850               3,120        5,615          11,490                3,695       6,935          14,640
Water Charges 3/                (P)       -           85             575                  -            125             865                 -           170           1,150
Net Value of Production
(After Water Charges)           (P)    2,100       4,000           7,275               3,120        5,490          10,625                3,695       6,765          13,490
Annual Payment for Land 4/    (P)         825      1,130           2,060                1,235       1,700            3,090               1,645       2,265           4,120
Net Crop Income                 (P)    1,275       2,870           5,215                1,885       3,790            7,535               2,050       4,500           9,370
Farm Labor Requirement
(men- days)                            200        300              320                 300          450             480                  400         600             640
1/ Based on Tables 1 and 3.
2/ Based on maximum of 40 man-days/month and a total of 480 man-days/year of family labor.
3/ Based on present charges of P25/ha in the wet season and P35/ha in the dry season and proposed future charges of P165/ha and P205/ha for wet and dry seasons respectively.
41 Based on amortizing owner with annual payments over 15 years @ 6% compound interest on the unpaid balance.



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT STAGE I
Farm Budgets: Stage IB
___2.____---------2.0 ha Farm------------                -------3.0 ha Farmn-4.---                        ---                            0 ha Farm------------------
Present                Future w/Project 1/               Present                Future w/Project 1/                Present                 Future w/Proiect I/
Rainfed   Irrigated   Irrigated N    Irrigated R         Rainfed   Irrigated   Irrigated N    Irrigated R          Rainfed   Irrigated   Irrigated N    Irrigated R
Transplanted Rice               (ha)     2.0         2.8          2.0             2.9              3.0        4.2          3.0             4.4               4.0         5.6          4.0             5.9
Total Cropped Area              (ha)     2.0         2.8          2.0             2.9              3.0        4.2          3.0             4.4               4.0         5.6          4.0             5.9
Cropping Intensity             (%)       100         141          100             148              100        141          100             148               100         141          100             148
Total Paddy Production 2/    (ton)       3.2         6.2         8.0             11.8             4.8         9.4         12.0            17.9               6.4       12.5         16.0             24.0
Gross Value of Production 2/  (P)    3,200         6,200       7,440          10,975            4,800       9,400       11,160          16,645            6,400      12,500       14,880           22,320
Production Costs 2/
(Excluding Labor)               (P)    1,100      2,320        2,580           3,785            1,650       3,480        3,870           5,745            2,200       4,640        5,160            7,705
Cost of Hired Farm Labor 2/   (P)        -            70           50              50               30        685          360             365               505       1,340          840           1,010
Net Value of Production
(Before Water Charges)         (P)    2,100       3,810        4,810           7,140            3,120       5,235        6,930          10,535            3,695       6,520        8,880           13,605
Water Charges 2/                (P)      -            80          330             515              -           115         495              780              -           155          660           1,050
Net Value of Production
(After Water Charges)          (P)    2,100       3,730        4,480           6,625            3,120       5,120        6,435           9,755             3,695      6,365        8,220           12,555
Annual Payment for Land 2/    (P)        825       1,130        2,060           2,060            1,235      1,700        3,090           3,090             1,645       2,265        4,120           4,120
Net Crop Income                 (P)    1,275       2,600        2,420           4,565            1,885       3,420       3,345           6,665             2,050       4,100        4,100           8,435
Farm Labor Requirement
(man-days)                              200         280         200             290              300         420          300             440               400         560          400             590
1/ Irrigated N = Previously rainfed land.
Irrigated R = Previously irrigated land after rehabilitation.
2/ Same as in footnotes in Table 4.



ANNEX 16
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Farm Labor Analysis
Labor Supply
1.        Based on data from the 1970 Census of Population and Housing, the
1971 Agricultural Census, the Department of Agrarian Reform and the project
feasibility report, the rural population of the Stage I project area at the
beginning of 1975 is estimated at around 205,000 1/. This consists of about
24,000 farm families and some 9,000 other families occupied principally or
entirely in agricultural production. The average farm family size is 6.2,
from which two full-time workers are available for farm work, giving a total
farm family labor supply of 48,000 workers. Assuming each of the other
9,000 families also supplies two workers, the total estimated project area
rural labor force is 66,000. Assuming each worker is available 240 days per
year, a monthly average of 20 days, the total available annual labor supply
is 15.8 million man-days, or an average of 1.3 million man-days per month.
The monthly labor supply is assumed slightly flexible, with the labor force
prepared to work up to an average of 22 days per worker in months of high
labor demand (i.e. transplanting, harvesting), and supplying less labor in
slack months. This gives a maximum monthly labor supply of 1.4 million
man-days.
2.        From 1960 to 1970, while total population in the Philippines grew
by about 3% per year, population in Isabela province grew by nearly 5% per
year due to heavy internal migration. Assuming that migration continues
in future, but at a slower pace, resulting in an annual growth of 4%, a
rural labor force of some 92,000 would be available at full project develop-
ment of Stage I in 1984. This would be equivalent to a total annual labor
supply of 22.1 million man-days, or a monthly average of 1.8 million man-
days.
Labor Demand
3.        Estimates of average monthly and annual labor requirements per ha
for different rice crops are given in Annex 15, Table 2. Mechanization of
land preparation and paddy threshing is already widespread, particularly on
land with some existing irrigation. In future without the project, it is
assumed that some additional mechanization of land preparation and threshing
1/   The farm labor analysis has been calculated on the 75,000 ha Stage I
project area.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
would take place, thereby slightly reducing per ha labor requirements. The
timing of cropping operations in the present Magat and Siffu river irrigation
service areas varies widely. This diversity contributes to the difficulties
of water management and of scheduling inputs and supporting services. With
the project, strict scheduling of operations would be essential to permit
adequate irrigation of the whole area. This in turn would require further
mechanization of land preparation, particularly for the dry season crop.
At the same time practically all threshing would be done by hired mechanical
threshers. Notwithstanding this additional mechanization, average labor
requirements per ha at full project development are estimated to be similar
to present levels because of higher crop management requirements.
4.        Estimates of total monthly labor requirements are given in
Table 1. The present annual requirement is about 9.4 million man-days, or
about 60% of the estimated rural labor supply. The demand for labor in the
project area has a pronounced seasonal pattern. Peak monthly demands in
August and December require more than 20 days per worker, while some two-
thirds of total yearly labor is needed in the five months August through
December. Demand for available manpower falls from 60% in January to 15%
in May, and to near zero in June. In future without the project the total
annual labor requirement would fall slightly to around 9.0 million man-days
due to increased mechanization, while the seasonal employment pattern would
remain as at present. The project would increase total yearly labor demand
by a small amount, but would considerably affect seasonal labor demand. At
full development total annual requirements would be 10.4 million man-days,
some 16% or 1.4 million man-days greater than under without project conditions.
The wet season peak demand would be concentrated and shifted to the period
October through January due to a tighter scheduling of cropping operations,
and to a later planting to obtain maximum benefit from yearly rainfall and
the avoidance of harvesting during the high rainfall month of November. The
dry season labor requirement would be altered to the period March to August
to allow system maintenance in the dry conditions of January-February, and
to make better use of available rainfall. Total dry season labor require-
ments would still be considerably less than those of the wet season as
Stage I of the project does not provide any dry season water storage.
Economic Cost of Farm Labor
5.        Detailed information on wages actually paid in the project area
is limited.  Most work is done by unpaid family labor and traditional
"exchange" labor.  Information on off-farm employment is even less reliable.
The wage for hired labor in peak agricultural seasons is around P 6 per man-
day, which is assumed to reflect the opportunity cost of labor to the economy
at such times.  In months of high rural unsm.ployment, which characterize
most of the year, the opportunity cost of labor would be much lower.  The
economic cost of farm labor in the project area was therefore estimated by
taking account of the generally prevailing rural unemployment and extreme
seasonal fluctuations in labor demand.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
6.        It is postulated that the marginal opportunity cost of farm labor
in the project area can be approximated by an S-shaped curve (Chart 9537(R)).
The marginal opportunity cost is positive at all levels of labor demand
and increases as more labor is employed in farm work. The increase is slow
initially, reflecting the scarcity of alternative productive employment, but
becomes more rapid as the labor supply becomes fully used. At full employ-
ment in the project area, the opportunity cost is assumed equal to the
market wage of P 6 per man-day. As labor demand increases beyond this
point, the market wage rate continues to rise until it reaches P 7 per man-
day, at which level it remains constant for subsequent demand increases.
This reflects the mobility of the Philippines rural labor force, and
indicates that large numbers of laborers would be attracted to the project
area from surrounding areas at that market wage.
7.        It is reasonable to approximate the S-shaped curve by three
straight line segments. Three points determine the position of the curve.
Point A represents the minimum opportunity cost of farm labor which is
estimated to be P 2 per man-day, equal to P 1.5 as the economic value of
alternative employment (casual non-farm labor, fishing, house repairs,
etc.) plus P 0.5 to supply the additional food requirements of more strenuous
farm work wi.h the project. Point B indicates that at full employment of
rural labor the opportunity cost would equal the market wage of P 6 per man-
day. The horizontal segment to the right of Point C indicates that at P 7
per man-day as many laborers as needed would be available for farm work in
the project area.
8.        The monthly marginal opportunity cost may be read directly from
the curve at the corresponding level of labor demand. With the project, it
varies from P 2.1 per man-day in dry season months of high unemployment to
P 5.6 per man-day in the peak month of October. The total economic cost of
farm labor is then the area under the curve up to the level of employment.
Computed this way, the future economic cost of farm labor would be P 28.3
million with the project at full development and P 23.3 million without the
project, or an incremental cost of P 5.0 million. This would be equivalent
to pricing the incremental employment of 1.43 million man-days per year at
a shadow wage rate of P 3.50 per man-day.



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Estimated Opportunity Cost Curve for Farm Labor
C
7.0…;w
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
60
'3 3.0
co
a
CL
4.0
'0
3 .0                                                                                               __
1.0                                                                                              _  _ _
0.2    0.4    0.6    0.8    1.0        1.2    1.4    1.6    1.8    2.0    2.2    2.4    2.6
Farm Labor Demand (Million Man-Days/Month)
World Bank-9537 (R)



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Total Monthly Labor Requirements ('000 man-days) -
Area         Jan      Feb      Mar     Apr      May     Jun      Jul       Aug        Sep       Oct        Nov        Dec        Total
(ha)
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice        P       40,350           81      -        -       -        -       -       726        968        807       323        525         605      4,035
W       40,350           -       -        -       -        -       -       686        888       807        444        525         484      3,834
w       75,000       1,200      600       -       -        -       -       150        375       975      1,725      1,575         900      7,500
Rainfed Rice          P       34,650          312     450      450      -        -       -        -         416        450        520       416         450      3,464
w       34,650         277      450      347      -        -       -        -         347       416        520        416         520      3,293
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice        P        19,400         446     175      116     252      194       -       -          -          -          58       349         349      1,939
W       19,400         446      194      155     213      194      -        -          -          -         -         291         349      1,842
w       29,000           -        -      116     725      841     348      493        377         -          -         -           -       2,900
Total
P       94,400         839      625     566      252      194      -       726     1,384      1,257        901      1,290       1,404      9,438
W       94,400         723      644      502     213      194      -       686      1,235     1,223        964      1,232       1,353      8,969
w      104,000       1,200      600      116     725      841     348      643        752        975     1,725      1,575         900    10,400
1/ P - Present
W - Future without Project
W - Future with Project



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Cost of Farm Labor at Full Project Development
Jan       Feb       Mar        Apr        May       Jun        Jul       Aug        Sep        Oct        Nov        Dec       Total
Labor Requirement                 W        1.20      0.60       0.12      0.73       0.84      0.35       0.64       0.75      0.98       1.72       1.57       0.90       10.40
(Million man-days)                Wy21    0.72       0.64       0.50      0.21       0.20        -        0.69       1.24       1.22      0.96       1.23       1.35        8.96
Marginal Opportunity Cost         W        3.9        2.7       2.1        2.8       2.9        2.4        2.7       2.8        3.2        5.6       5.1        3.0
(PAman-day)                       W        2.8       2.7        2.6        2.2       2.2         -        2.7        4.1        4.0       3.1        4.0        4.4
Average Economic Cost
of Farm.Labor                    W       2.7        2.3       2.0        2.5        2.5       2.3        2.3       2.4        2.6        3.3        3.1       2.6         2.7
(PI/an-day)                       W        2.4        2.3       2.4        2.0       2.0         -        2.3        2.7        2.9        2.5       2.8        2.9        12.6
Ecomomic Cost of Farm Labor       W        3.3        1.4       0.2        1.8       2.1        0.8        1.5       1.8        2.5        5.7       4.9        2.3        28.3
(P million)                       W        1.7       1.5        1.2       0.4        0.4         -        1.6        3.4        3.4       2.4        3.4        3.9        23.3
l[cremental Economic Cost
of Farm Labor
(f aiIIion)                     W-W        1.6       -0.1      -1.0        1.4        1.7       0.8       -0.1      -1.6       -0.9        3.3        1.5       -1.6         5.0
IW = Future with project.
ii  U = Future without project.



ANNEX 17
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Analysis
I. STAGE I
1.        The assumptions made in evaluting the economic rate of return of
Stage I were:
(a) Benefits - The expected paddy yields, prices, gross returns,
production costs, net returns (without accounting for labor
costs) and labor requirements per ha are as shown in Annexes 13
and 15. The cropping calendar as proposed for Stage IB was
assumed to apply for the total Stage I area. Farm gate prices
for paddy used in the economic analysis are based on the Bank's
world market price projections for milled rice and are derived
in Annex 14. Table 1 shows the expected project benefits at
full agricultural development of Stage I.
(b) Investment Costs - Investment costs were calculated in mid-1975
prices, and the total investment cost included in the economic
analysis was US$74.47 million This consists of the costs for
Stage IA works (US$22.04 million); Stage IB works (US$51.80
million); Water Management Training Program (US$0.52 million);
and the estimated difference between an economic price for
cement based on world market values and the actual cost to the
Philippine Government of domestically produced cement (US$0.11
million). The cost of O&M equipment has been included under
annual O&M costs, as have the yearly incremental cost of the
Water Management Technologists. Costs due to expected price
increases (US$23.5 million) have not been included.
(c) Development Period - According to the project implementation
schedule, some 7% of the project area would be improved in time
for the 1977 main wet season crop, 33% for the 1978 crop, 66%
for the 1979 crop, and 100% for the 1980 wet season crop. Dry
season crop benefits from the improved areas would be lagged a
year, i.e. the first dry season crop from the improved area would
be harvested in 1978. It has been assumed that the projected
yield levels would be achieved over five years in equal install-
ments, beginning with the first crop grown under upgraded con-
ditions. Full Stage I project benefits would be achieved in
1984.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
(d) Pricing of Labor - Farm labor was evaluated at a shadow wage
rate, which varies seasonally and averages some P 2.7 per man-
day over the year under "with" project conditions at full devel-
opment, compared to a full employment market wage of P 6.0 per
man-day. A detailed analysis is presented in Annex 16. The
use of unskilled labor in construction and development works is
limited and all labor employed in such works was valued at the
market wage rate.
2.        Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting Stage I benefits
and costs over a 50-year project life, the economic rate of return of Stage I
is estimated to be 18% (Table 4).
Sensitivity Analysis
3.        Several of the basic assumptions made in the economic analysis
have been varied in order to examine their impact on the rate of return.
These factors were chosen to test the project's sensitivity to cost over-
runs and delays in construction; to a 25% increase in the world market price
of rice; to failure to achieve the projected cropping intensity; and to a
higher opportunity cost of farm labor. The effects of these changes in
assumptions on the rate of return were as follows:
Alternative                           Rate of Return
(x)
(a) A two-year delay in reaching full project
benefits due to failure to complete construction
on time                                                       14
(b)  A 20% increase in construction costs                          15
(c)  A combination of a two-year delay in reaching full
project benefits and a 20% cost overrun                      12
(d)  A 25% increase in the world market price of rice              24
(e) A combination of a 25% cost overrun and a 25%
increase in the price of rice                                20
(f)  A 25% decrease in project benefits due to a
combination of decreased yields and area resulting
from failure of farmers to attain the proposed
cropping intensity                                           14
(g) The valuing of farm labor at the market wage rate
of P 6 per man-day throughout the year                       17



ANNEX 17
Page 3
4.        In the economic analysis, Stage I was treated as a unit since its
division into sub-stages is purely for administrative convenience due to
different sources of financial assistance and has no engineering or agri-
cultural justification. Nevertheless, a hypothetical incremental analysis,
conservatively attributing the costs of all facilities common to the whole
project area to Stage IB and assuming that Stage IA of the existing MARIS
has a prior right to valuable dry season irrigation water, shows that the
rate of return on Stage IB alone would be about 11%.
STAGE II
5.        The proposed engineering studies would determine whether Stage II
of the project would be implemented and what form it would take. However,
a preliminary evaluation of Stage II has been made using the following
assumptions:
(a) Project Features. Stage II would consist of construction
of the Magat and Baligatan dams, expansion of the irrigation
facilities by an additional 22,500 ha, and installation of
power generating facilities, switch yards, transmission lines
and substations. Construction of Stage II would commence in
1979 and be completed in 1985.
(b) Benefits
(i) Irrigation. The additional rice area irrigated would
be 22,500 ha in the wet season and 68,500 ha in the dry
season. The cropping pattern, cropping calendar, expected
paddy yields, prices, gross returns, production costs,
net costs and labor requirements per ha used for Stage II
were similar to those for Stage I. The areas cropped and
the expected benefits at full agricultural development are
shown in Table 2.
(ii) Power. Total installed capacity would be 300 NW, of
which 200 MW would be commissioned in 1985 and 100 MW
in 1986. The main function of the Magat plant would
be peaking. Taking account of the power system, and
assuming a reliability level of 95%, the dependable
peaking capability would be 250 MW (i.e., capability
that would be available for at least 95% of the time).
The average annual energy production would be 1,170 Gwh.
For the purposes of this preliminary evaluation the benefits
have been assessed as the cost of the comparable thermal
alternative. A rigorous evaluation of the power benefits
of Magat would require a detailed system analysis including
the consideration of a mixture of gas turbine and thermal



ANNEX 17
Page 4
plants as the alternative power source. The use of gas
turbines for peaking would introduce questions regarding the
type and availability of fuel for them, and their O&M costs
would be high if diesel oil or Bunker C fuel is used. As
future additional thermal capacity is already planned, it can
be considered at this stage as a feasible alternative to the
proposed Magat plant. The thermal alternative is assumed to
be an oil fired steam generating plant of 250 M capacity at
a capital cost of some US$430 per kwh (estimated July 1975
price level). Fuel costs of US$2.0 per million Btu (equivalent
to US$11.60 per barrel of crude) have been used and a heat rate
of 9,500 Btu per kwh. Operation and maintenance costs for the
thermal alternative have been estimated at 2.5% of capital cost.
(c) Investment Costs. The total estimated investment cost
calculated at mid-1975 prices included in the analysis was
US$422.0 million, made up as follows:
Item                           US$ million
Engineering and Administration                40.0
Dam & Service Facilities                     294.0
Power Facilities                               64.0
Irrigation Service Area                        21.0
Additional Economic Cement Costs                3.0
Total                         422.0
Some US$32.0 million of hydro-power facilities would be replaced
in year 40. The cost of O&M equipment and the incremental cost
of the Water Management Technologists are included under annual
O&M costs, which are estimated at US$0.4 million per year for
the irrigation service area and US$1.0 million per year for the
dam and power plant.
(d) Development Period
(i) Irrigation. The additional 22,500 ha of wet season
crop would be first irrigated in the ninth year of
construction, i.e. during the 1984 wet season, and
the additional 68,500 ha of dry season irrigation
would commence immediately following, and be harvested
in 1985. The projected yield levels would be achieved
over five years in equal installments, with wet season
yields reaching a maximum in 1988, and dry season yields
in 1989.



ANNEX 17
Page 5
(ii) Power. Benefits equivalent to the capital costs of the
comparable thermal alternative plant would be spread
over a five year period beginning in 1981, and the same
benefits would occur again for another five-year period
from year 41 to year 45, when the thermal plant would
have to be renewed. Benefits equivalent to fuel and
O&M costs of the thermal plant would begin in year ten
(1985) and would continue for the life of the project.
The time stream of power benefits is shown in Table 5.
(e) Pricing of Labor. Farm labor was evaluated at a shadow wage
rate, which varies seasonally and averages some P 3.1 per man-
day over the year under "with" project conditions at full
development, compared to a full employment market wage of P 6.0
per man-day. This shadow wage rate is slightly larger than that
used for Stage I calculations due to the large increase in
demand for dry season labor under Stage II. The use of un-
skilled labor in construction and development works is limited
and all labor employed in such works was valued at the market
wage rate.
6.        Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting benefits and costs
over a 50-year period, the economic rate of return of Stage II is estimated
to be 12% (Table 5).
Sensitivity Analysis
7.        The assumptions regarding the year of commencement of irrigation
and power benefits, the construction time, investment costs, and price of
rice have been varied in order to examine their impact on the rate of return
and the results are as follows:
Alternative                                     Rate of Return
(%)
(a) a two-year delay in reaching full project benefits
because of construction difficulties                            11
(b)  a 20; increase in construction costs                            10
(c)  a combination of a two-year delay in reaching full
project benefits and a 20% cost increase in construction         9
(d)  a 25,' increase in the world market price of rice               13



ANNEX 17
Page 6
Stages I and II
8.   Using the assumptions listed for both Stages I and II, and discounting
their benefits and costs over a 50-year period, the economic rate of return
for the combined Stages is estimated at 13% (Tables 3 and 6).



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production - Stage I
Area          PaddT        Farm Gate      Gross Value       Production        Net Value       Net Returns from
________  Yield 1/       Price        of Production       Costs 2/       of Production       Project Area
(ha)        (ton/ha)        (P/ton)             …(---            P(p/ha)----…-------             (P million)
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice        W           40,350           2.5           930             2,325              820             1,505               60.7
W          75,000           4.0            930            3,720            1,190             2,530              189.8
Rainfed Rice          W           34,650           1.8           930             1,674              515             1,159               40.2
W 
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice        W           19,400           2.6           930             2,418              840             1,578               30.6
W          29,000           4.2            930            3,906            1,240             2,666                77.3
Total
W          94,400
W         104,000
_  W              W
W  -with project, W = without project                                                               -----(P million)------
1/  From Annex 13, Tables 1 & 2.                               Total Net Value of Production
Before Costing Labor              131.5             267.1
2/ From Annex 15, Table 1.
Less Imputed Coat of Labor 3/         23.3              28.3
3/ From Annex 16, Table 2.
Total Net Value of Production        108.2             238.8
Net Incremental Value of
Production at Full Project
Development                                         130.6                                 c 
(D >C
F X



PHILVPPINE
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Agricultural Production - Stage II
Area      Padcd Yield     Farm-Gate     Gross Value      Production     Net Value      Net Returns From
Price      of Production      Costs       of Production     Pro.ect Area
(ha)        (ton/ha)       (P/ton)     --------------------P/ha-------------------        (P dllion)
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice   W         -              -              -
W      22,500          4.0            930             3,720          1,190           2,530            56.9
Rainfed Rice     W      22,500          1.8             930            1,674             515          1,159             26.1
W         _
Dry Season
Iriigated Rice   W         -              -              -               -               -              -
W      68,500          4.2             930            3,906          1,240           2,666           182.6
Total
W      22,500
W      91,000
W   With project   -  W = Without project
W              W
-- 7P.,millionT---
Total Net Value of Production
Before Costing Labor                    26.1          239.5
Less Imputed Labor Cost                    5.1           33.5
Total Net Value of Production             21.0          206.0
Net Incremental Value of Production
at Full Project Development                           185.0



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Agricultural Production on Stages I & II
Area        Paddy Yield     Farm-Gate    Gross Value      Production     Net Value     Net Return from
Price      of Production      Costs      of Production    ProJect Area
(ha)         (ton/ha)        (P/ton)     -------------------------------- _               P million)
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice   W    40,350           2.5            930           2,325             820          1,505            60.7
w    97,5oo           4.0            930           3,720           1,190          2,530            246.7
Rainfed Rice     W    57,150           1.8            930           1,674             515          1,159            66.2
W              -              -                      _- 
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice   W   19,400            2.6            930           2,418             840          1,578             30.6
w    97,5oo           4.2            930           3,906           1,240          2,666           259.9
Total
w   116,900
W   195,000
W = With project   -  W  Without project
W
_____(p million3 F
Total Net Value of Production
Before Costing Labor                    157.5          506.6
Less Imputed Labor Cost                    28.7           61.0
Total Net Value of Production             128.8          445.6
Net Incremental Value of Production
at Full Project Development                            316.8
-3 F



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE T
Economic Costs and Benefits - Stage I
(Us$ million)
Prolect Costs                         Incremental
Year                    Capital          0 & M          Total            Project Benefits
0     (1975)           0.5             0              0.5                     0
1     (1976)           6.1             0              6.1                     0
2     (1977)          18.0             0.1           18.1                      0.2
3     (1978)          23.7             0.3           24.0                      1.1
4     (1979)          17.1             0.8           17.9                      4.7
5     (1980)           9.1             1.2           10.3                      9.1
6     (1981)           0               1.2            1.2                     12.5
7     (1982)           0               1.2            1.2                     15.9
8     (1983)           0               1.2             1.2                    18.2
9_49     (1984-2024)      0               1.2             1.2                    18.9
Economic Rate of Return                                                          18%



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MVLTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Costs and Benefits - Stage II
(US$ million)
Project Costs                               Incremental Project Benefits
Dam &         Power          O&M        O&M Dams
Year                    Irrigation   Facilities   Irrigation    Power            Total       Irrigation       Power       Total
0          (1975)          0              0            0            0             0              0             0           0
1          (1976)        3.0             0             0            0           3.0              0             0           0
2          (1977)        3.0             0             0            0           3.0              0             0           0
3          (1978)        3.0             0             0            0           3.0              0             0           0
4          (1979)       31.3              0            0            0          31.3              0             0           0
5          (1980)'      48.9             0             0            0          48.9              0             0           0
6          (t981)      '70.6           3.0             0            0          73.6              0           5.0        5.0
7          (1982)      >7.l            6.0             0            0          77.1              0          20.0       20.0
8          (1983)       67.7          20.0             0            0          87.7              0          40.0       40.0
9          (1984)       50.4          20.0           0.2            0          70.6            0.8          38.0       38.8
10          (1985)        4.0          12.0           0.4          1.0          17.4           22.3          30.0       52.3
11          (1986)        4.0           3.0           0.4          1.0           8.4           23.6          25.0       48.6
12          (1987)          0             0           0.4          1.0           1.4           24.9          25.0       49.9
13          (1988)          0              0          0.4          1.0           1.4           26.3          25.0       51.3
14-40    (1989-2015)           0              0          0.4          1.0            1.4          26.8           25.0       51.8
41          (2016)          0          32.0           0.4          1.0          33.4           26.8          30.0        56.8
42          (2017)          0              0          0.4          1.0            1.4          26.8          45.0        71.8
43          (2018)          0              0          0.4          1.0            1.4          26.8          65.0       91.8
44          (2019)          0              0          0.4          1.0           1.4           26.8          63.0       89.8
45          (2020)          0              0          0.4          1.0            1.4          26.8          30.0        56.8
46-49    (2021-2024)            0             0          0.4           1.0           1.4          26.8           25.0       51.8
Economic Rate of Return                                                                                                      12%
\JIH



PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Economic Costs and Benefits - Stage I + Stage II
(US$ million)
Project Costs                       Incremental
Year                      Capital      0 & M       Total       Project Benefits
0           (1975)       0.5          0         0.5                  0
1           (1976)        9.1          0         9.1                 0
2           (1977)       21.0       0.1         21.1               0.2
3           (1978)       26.7       0.3         27.0              1.1
4           (1979)       48.4        o.8        49.2               4.7
5           (1980)       58.o       1.2         59.2               9.1
6           (1981)       73.6        1.2        74.8              17.5
7           (1982)      77.1         1.2        78.3              35.9
8           (1983)      88.7         1.2        89.g              58.2
9           (1984)      70.4        1.4         71.8              57.7
10           (1985)       16.0        2.6        18.6              71.2
11          (1986)         7.0        2.6         9.6              67.5
12           (1987)          0        2.6         2.6              68.8
13           (1988)          0        2.6         2.6              70.2
14-40      (1989-2015)          0        2.6         2.6              70.7
41          (2016)        32.0        2.6        34.6              75.7
42           (2017)          0        2.6         2.6              90.7
43           (2018)          0        2.6         2.6             110.7
144          (2019)          0        2.6         2.6             108.7
45           (2020)          0        2.6         2.6              75.7
46-49      (2021-2024)          0        2.6         2.6              70.7
Economic Rate of Return                                                13%






PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Implementation Schedule
WORKITEM1976                                                             1977                         1978                          1979                         1980
WORK ITEM              ~~~J F M A M    fiJI  SO N I J|F|IM|A|M|J|J|AIS|O|N|C  J F MIAIM |JL  A   O|N|D J|F|MIA M JJA S OIN D JIFIM A M J JA S O N D
STAGE IA
Rehabilitation of existing systems (40,000 ha)    o                                  m
STAGE lB   A 5X
MobilizationmmX
Service facilities
Modification of Magat diversion dam
Magat System (MARIS) 
Rehabilitation of existing systems (2.190 ha)                                                                                            
Construction of new areas (20,810 ha)                                                                                     :1 I
Construction of roads
Irrigation service facilities                                                                                                                                       IE
Siffu System (SIFRISI
Rehabilitation of existing systems (10,000 ha)
Construction of new areas (2,000 ha)                                                                                                                                              *~
Construction of roads
Irrigation service facilities
STAGE 11 ENGINEERING STUDIES
WATER MANAGEMENT TRAINING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO NIA
NOTE:
Shading indicates wet season months
World Bank-9531






PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Critical Work Action Schedule Leading to Award of Contract for Magat Dam
1975                   1976                       1977                       1978                       1979
CRITICAL WORK ACTIONS                                    _-_-.                                                                             _
Quarter  2nd   3rd   4th    1 st   2nd   3rd   4th    1 st   2nd   3rd   4th    1 st   2nd   3rd   4th    1 st   2nd   3rd   4th
1 ) Board presentation                                     A
2) Short list of consultants
3) Consultants' proposal
'4) Selection of consultants & negotiations
5) Approval by IBRD & award
6) Consultant mobilization
7) Investigations & tests:
Reservoir investigations                                                     -
Dam site investigations                                                            -      -
Materials investigations                                                       w
8) Engineering & economic studies:
Hydrologic studies                                                           -            _      -
Sedimentation studies                                                        -            -
Design studies                                                              _
Hydraulic model tests                                                              -                    -
Cost estimates
9) Economic evaluation of Stage II
10) Preparation & submission of report on studies
11) NIA-IBRD review & decision to proceed with Stage II
12) Final designs, specifications, bill of quantities                                                                      -
13) Advertising & prequalification of bidders
14) Bid document review by IBRD
15) Call for bids                                                                                                                              -0t
16) Bid evaluation & contract award
Key Actions
World Bank-9684






PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
NIA Organization for Special Projects
NIA BOARD
--
ADMINISTRATOR
ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATORl
SPECIAL PROJECTS
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT                                       AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT
LL
I-
O           OPERATION AND MAINT. DIVISION                                 EVALUATION AND STATISTICS DIV.
u-L
=  i                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BUSINESS MANAGEMENT
1                EQUIPMENT DIVISION                                               OFFICE
(i) CENTRAL LUZON PROJECTS                                            GROUNDWATER PUMP
CENTRAL LUZON PROJECTS  l  l         IRRIGATION PROJECT
ANGAT-MAGAT INTEGRATED
I AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT    - _                                   MAGAT MULTIPURPOSE
iLU                (AMIADP)             I                           1             PROJECT
DAVAO DEL NORTE                                               A    NL
INTEGRATED IRRIGATION PROJECT                                       AGUSAN DEL SUR
(DNIIP)                                        L        IRRIGATION PROJECT
Includes Upper Pampanga, Aurora-Penaranda & Tarlac Projects                   World Bank-9533(R)






PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Proposed Organization for Project Construction
NIA BOARD
NIA
ADMINISTRATOR
ASST. ADMINISTRATOR
|SPECiAL PROJECTS
PROJECT 1               PROJECT MANAGR                STAGE 11
MANAGER              MAGAT IRRIGATION            ENGINEERING
I IAMIADP)                  PROJC                   CONSULTANTS
r~~----J---ASSISTAN
OTHER                         PROJECSTAT                      OTHER
RESPONSIBILITIES                  MANAGER      |              RESPONSIBILITIES|
& FINAE             |   ENGINEERING              AGRICULTURE                EQUIPMENT
-------                    . --
DIVISION I                     DIVISION 11                    DIVISION
I    (MARIS IA)                     (MARIS IB)                      (SIFRIS IB)
* _ m   AMIADP Responsibilities                                                   World Bank-9534






PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Proposed Organization for Operation and Maintenance
NIA
ADMINISTRATOR
ASST. ADMINISTRATOR
SPECIAL PROJECTS
MAGAT IRRIGATION
PROJECT
MANAGER
| EQUIPMEN     |r AGRICULTURAL                          | MARIS DAM    |               DINISTRATIVE 
DSPVISION                DEVELOPMENT DT VISION                                          I VISI ON
DIVISION   1NDIVISION
DITIC|                                      DISTRICT 2                               DITRC 3
SANTIAGO                                SAN MATEO                                  ROXAS
(21,600 Ha)                             (33,000 Ha)                              (20,400 Ha)
ZONE                                        ZON                                       ZO|N-E
SUPERINTENDENT-1                         SUPERINTENDENT-    _                     SUPERINTENDENT-
(2)                                      (3)                                      (2)
DIVISION                                 DIVISION                         |       DIVISION
SUPERVISOR                               SUPERVISOR                               SUPERVISOR
(9)                                     (13)                                      (8)
WATER MANAGEMENT                         WATER MANAGEMENT                         WATER MANAGEMENT
TECHNOLOGIST                             TECHNOLOGIST                        [    TECHNOLOGIST
(43) _                                  (66)                                      (41)
(26                           f    DI  (30                             [ _.      (204
DITCHTENDERS                             DITCHTENDERS                             DITCHTENDERS
(216) r    s                             (330) i  p                               World (204)
-Personnel requirements shown in parentheses                                             World BNank-9535






PHILIPPINES
MAGAT RIVER MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE I
Proposed Cropping Calendar
J      F     M      A      M     J      J      A      S     0      N      D
Maintenance
I                                       I      I      I      IN
Wet Season             |                                                  T
Rice                    I       
(75,000 Ha.)
M                                                  m
H                                                                H
|   N
Dry Season             I           T
Rice                               T
(29,000 Ha.) J
I     |I                             
II                    ~~~~~~H
l                                    _ ~~~~~~~~~~~343
Notation:                 Rainfall MM.28
C: Cultivation                                                            232
N: Nursery19
T: Transpianting                                                    195
M: Management
H: Harvest
M M .ays n. 5 C 64    43    4       63    14                    
J      F     M      A      M     J      J      A      S      O     N      D
World Bank-9536






12tt-   -!uf.&,       Cen)ti 
3  0 5U                 10          ~~~~~~~DIVERSION DAMOd -                            ali
10 SaMte        1 
/, 5t          rO   TI          PROVINCE  NAMES
1~ ~          ~ TIA b.0.ha.
9'                   /-        I ABRA
AeeIee  "'*I        - 2 ILOCOS NORTE
16     1               SILOCOS SUR                      z   <j-O                                                                                ~Ga,
- ,---f   Rias , I  4 LA MUNON 
'24                5 MOUNTAIN PROVINCE
9M CAG AYAAM                                                                                           aT I           MULIPUPOS    PROiECT
To  B r B       o                                                                                                   aP piant
$\,~ P..p.... RI- I7 PA GAS NAN                                                                                 Otherroads
L..  I-0TA RLAC                                                                                                 t     a      0   8       t   1             , _
H)  2< RIAKILDOE  SI
.q.t Igd- P,.J~~~~~~~~~~~~d  24 QUEZON~~~~~~c 



