CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1154 PH
Loan Agreement
(Magat River Multipurpose Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED AUGUST 7, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1154 PH
Loan Agreement
(Magat River Multipurpose Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED AUGUST 7, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.0 1. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Ongoing Project" means the Angat-Magat Integrated Agricultural
Development Project of the Borrower, which is in progress, and includes the
rehabilitation and upgrading of the irrigation systems serving about 40,000 hectares
in the MARIS;
(b)   "MARIS" means the Magat River Irrigation System, a system operated
by NIA and serving about 39,610 hectares of land south of the Magat River and
northeast of Santiago in Isabela Province;
(c)   "NIA" means the National Irrigation Administration, an agency
established by the Borrower's Republic Act No. 3601 as amended by Presidential
Decree No. 552;
(d)   "Project Area" means the area, mainly in Isabela Province, served by
the MARIS and SIFRIS, as proposed to be extended under the Project; and
(e)   "SIFRIS" means the Siffu River Irrigation System, a system operated
by NIA and serving about 10,000 hectares of land along the Siffu River north
of the MARIS.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty-two million dollars ($42,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1;1) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable seni-annUally on
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the NIA
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause NIA to: (i) employ an expert
on construction management and an expert on systems operation and maintenance,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of receiving the technical assistance
included in Part C of the Project; and (ii) employ engineering consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D of the
Project.
(b)   If the Borrower, through NIA, employs consultants to assist it in
carrying out Part B of the Project, their qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of service shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be- payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause NIA to furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) cause NIA to maintain records adequate to
record the progress and cost of the Project and to identify the goods and services


﻿6
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) continue to enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall grant all water rights required to enable
NIA to carry out and operate the Project and shall take such action as is required
to ensure that no other rights except for domestic use are granted which could
adversely affect the water supply for the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.06. Without limitation of its obligations under Section 3.01 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall establish and maintain, under arrangements         -
satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Fund from which NIA may draw without
restriction to meet expenditures in respect of the Project. The Borrower shall adjust
and replenish the amount in the Special Fund at monthly intervals to a level at
least equivalent to the estimated amount of payments to be made for goods and
services required for the Project, less the estimated amount of payments to be
made directly by the Bank, out of the proceeds of the Loan, to suppliers,
consultants, or contractors for such goods and services, during the next three
months' period.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to ensure that:
(a)   NIA shall take all action required to ensure that the standards and
facilities of Part A of the Project and those of the Ongoing Project are completely
compatible.
(b)   NIA  shall, within six months of the date hereof, establish an
agricultural development division to serve the Project Area, the functions of which
shall include monitoring the deployment of extension and water management
personnel, pace of land reform, cropping patterns, use of inputs and credit and
the incidence of pests and diseases. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, such
division shall be constituted, empowered and supported in the same way as the
Agricultural Development Division established for the Upper Pampanga River
Irrigation Project.


﻿7
(c)   NIA shall investigate means of attracting civil works contractors to
bid on the civil works included in the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall establish an agricultural development
coordinating council to serve Isabela Province which, except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, shall be constituted, empowered and supported in the same way
as the Agricultural Development Coordinating Council established by agreement
among NIA and other agencies of the Borrower, dated September 15, 1972, for
the purpose of coordinating agricultural supporting services in the area served by
the Upper Pampanga River Irrigation Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower and the Bank
that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan by way of
a lien on governmental assets.
(b)   To that end, the Borrower (i) represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as security for any external
debt except as otherwise disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank, and
(ii) undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost to the Bank,
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan, and in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such
lien.
(c)   The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for payment of the purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in
the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date. As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower including the
Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution performing the functions of
a central bank for the Borrower.
(d)   The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits of the laws
in force in its territories, it will make the foregoing undertaking effective with
respect to liens on the assets of its political subdivisions and their agencies, and
to the extent that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force


﻿8
in its territories to makc this undertaking effective, the Borrower will give to the
Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause NIA to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations in respect of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause NIA to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by ipdependent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of NIA and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the works and facilities included
in the Project to be operated and maintained in accordance with sound agricultural,
engineering and financial policies and practices, and shall make available sufficient
funds to NIA for such purposes.
(b)   Without limitation of its obligations under paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower undertakes to do, or, to the extent required, to cause NIA
to do, the following:
(i)         to make adequate budgetary provision to operate and maintain
the Project; and
(ii)        except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, to take all necessary
action to ensure that charges for the use of irrigation water are
levied and collected from the users of the Project and that such
charges will provide NIA with revenues sufficient to cover all
operating and maintenance costs of the Project, and, in addition,
to provide for the recovery, within a period not greater than
50 years, on reasonable terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, of the monies invested in the Project, without impairing
the users' incentives and capacity to pay.


﻿9
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Special Fund referred to in Section 3.06 hereof has been
established; and
(b)   NIA has established an organization satisfactory to the Bank to carry
out the Project and to ensure that the execution of Part A of the Project and
of the Ongoing Project will be effectively coordinated.
Section 5.02. The date November 5, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:
SECFINANCE
Manila


﻿10
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Eduardo Z. Romualdez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, subject to paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the allocation
of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures
for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works
(a)  mobilization              7,500,000          100% of foreign
and construc-                               expenditures
tion equipment
for civil works
construction
(b)   other                  '2,2200,000          42%
(2)   Equipment, vehicles           5,200,000
and supplies
(a)   direct imports                              100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  imported goods                               65
purchased
locally
(c)  locally manu-                                100% of ex-factory
factured goods                              costs
(3)  Consultants and                3,900,000          100% of foreign
technical                                         expenditures or
assistance                                        60%
(4)  Unallocated                    3,200,000
TOTAL        42,000,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Borrower.
3.   (a)   No funds shall be disbursed under Category 3 for Part D(ii) of the
Project until (a) the Bank has approved the studies carried out under Part D(i)
of the Project and (b) the Bank is satisfied that the works to be designed under
Part D(ii) of the Project are economically feasible.
(b)   Notwithstanding Section 6.03 of the General Conditions, if the Bank
determines that such works are not economically feasible, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower cancel up to two million dollars ($2,000,000) equivalent of the
Loan.
4.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to


﻿13
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:    Improvement and Expansion of Irrigation Systems
Upgrading existing NIA irrigation systems serving about 890 hectares
in the MARIS service area (other than the upgrading of systems included
in the Ongoing Project) and about 10,000 hectares in the SIFRIS service
area, and upgrading existing communal irrigation systems serving about
1,300 hectares in the MARIS service area; and extending the MARIS and
SIFRIS systems to service an additional 22,810 hectares in the Project Area.
Such upgrading and extension will include the following:
(i)        Raising the MARIS diversion dam by 5 meters and enlarging
and constructing additional outlet works:
(ii)       Constructing near such dam an air strip, access roads and a bridge
across the Magat River;
(iii)      Repair of existing, and construction of new, canals and structures
and provision of additional control structures, turnouts and
collector drains in areas to be upgraded;
(iv)       Constructing about 150 small buildings for use by water
management technologists, and rice drying floors of at least
400 square meters adjacent thereto;
(v)        Improvement of existing, or construction of new, access roads
of about 830 kilometers in the Project Area except the area
covered by the Ongoing Project; and
(vi)       Providing  equipment required   for the  construction  and
maintenance of the foregoing.
Part B:    Water Management Training
(i)        Training about 150 water management technologists including
training in water management methods, rice production


﻿15
techniques and farmer organization to serve the Project Area,
including in-service training; and
(ii)        Providing facilities for such training and for providing refresher
courses to such technologists.
Part C:     Operational Technical Assistance
Providing technical assistance to NIA in construction management, and
systems operation and maintenance.
Part D:     Engineering Studies
Carrying out additional engineering studies for the construction on the
Magat River of a storage dam and power works about 5 kilometers upstream
from the MARIS diversion works i the following two phases (provided the
results of the first justify the second):
(G)         Collection of additional geological information on the site of
the dam and reservoir; hydrological investigation of the river
regime and reservoir size (to maximize net Project benefits);
determining the command area to be served by the dam, and
the feasibility of a pump/gravity canal to serve about
7,000 hectares east of the Siffu South Main Canal; updating cost
estimates; and assessment of the economic justification of
constructing such dam and power station; and
(ii)        Preparation of final designs, cost estimates and invitations to
bid for construction of the dam, power station and appurtenant
structures and assistance to NIA in prequalification of bidders
and bid evaluation.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars)*
April 15, 1982                                         515,000
October 15, 1982                                       535,000
April 15, 1983                                         560,000
October 15, 1983                                       580,000
April 15, 1984                                         610,000
October 15, 1984                                       635,000
April 15, 1985                                         660,000
October 15, 1985                                       690,000
April 15, 1986                                         715,000
October 15, 1986                                       745,000
April 15, 1987                                         780,000
October 15, 1987                                       810,000
April 15, 1988                                         850,000
October 15, 1988                                       880,000
April 15, 1989                                         920,000
October 15, 1989                                       960,000
April 15, 1990                                        1,000,000
October 15, 1990                                      1,040,000
April 15, 1991                                        1,090,000
October 15, 1991                                      1,130,000
April 15, 1992                                        1,180,000
October 15, 1992                                      1,230,000
April 15, 1993                                        1,285,000
October 15, 1993                                      1,340,000
April 15, 1994                                        1,395,000
October 15, 1994                                      1,450,000
April 15, 1995                                        1,520,000
October 15, 1995                                      1,580,000
April 15, 1996                                        1,645,000
October 15, 1996                                      1,720,000
April 15, 1997                                        1,790,000
October 15, 1997                                      1,865,000
April 15, 1998                                        1,945,000
October 15, 1998                                      2,030,000
April 15, 1999                                        2,115,000
October 15, 1999                                      2,205,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                               2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                         5-1/2%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                         7-1/4%
More than twenty-one but not
more than twenty-three
years before maturity                             8%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                               8-1/2%


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.4 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    The works for the modification of the MARIS dam and intake structures
shall be bid as a single contract for which invitations to bid shall be internationally
advertised in accordance with paragraph 2. 1 of the Guidelines.
3.    Except as provided in Part A.4 (ii) hereof, all other invitations to bid shall
be advertised locally and shall be transmitted to representatives of the member
countries of the Bank and Switzerland which are potential suppliers of the goods
or services required.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions set forth or referred to in Part A. I of this
Schedule:
(i)         civil works other than for the modification of the MARIS clam
and intake structures may be carried out either (A) by NIA under
force account, or (B) by contract awarded under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines, provided that the aggregate cost
of such civil works carried out by force account shall not,
without prior consent of the Bank, exceed 407 of the total
cost of all such civil works in the Project; and
(ii)        any contract for the procurement of equipment, materials,
supplies and vehicles not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000
may be awarded on a competitive basis consistent with the
Borrower's normal procurement practices without international
competitive bidding, provided that the aggregate expenditure for
such items so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of
S300,000.
B.    Evaluation and Conparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)


﻿19
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in the Philippines may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Philippines
if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Philippines equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in the
Philippines.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically. to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if. as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group


﻿20
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    With respect to contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more and all contracts for vehicles and equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Review of prequalification. If bidders are required to prequalify, the
Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with
a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(i)         Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders;
(ii)        Promptly after bids have been opened, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts
of the bids;
(iii)       After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank
of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish
to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together


﻿21
with the recommendation for award and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination;
(iv)       The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids
were asked or prequalification invited; and
(v)        Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2. With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


