Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11368-NOz
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOOD SECURITY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
APRIL 1, 1993
r-    t            '- .                  zNt:nr
,_   ,      .-C.,-       '1     \ 
Population and Human Resources Division
Southern Africa Department
African Regional Office
This document has a rstricted distibudon and nmy be used by eipients ody in the perfonmauce of
their official duties. Its contents may not odherise be discloed without Wodd Bank athuorization.



CQURRENCY EOUIVALENT
(March 1993)
Currency Unit = Metical (pl. Meticais)
US$1 = 3,000 Meticais
FISCAL YEARS
IDA Fisecal Year = July 1 - June 30
Government Fiscal Year = January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPA          Centro de Formacao Agrario (Center for
Agricultural Tramning)
CNP          Comissao Nacional do Plano (National Planning Commission)
CT?P         Conselho Tecnico do Plano
DPCCN        Departamento de Prevencao e Combate das
Calamidades Naturais (Department for the
Prevention and Cembatting of Natural
Disasters)
ESRP         Economic and SocW Recovery Program
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization
FSD          Food Security Department
INDER         National Institute for Rur l Economic Development
MIC          Ministry of International Cooperation
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
MOC          Ministry of Comnme4ce
MOH          Ministry of Health
MOI          Ministry of Industry
MOL          Ministry of Labor
NGO          Non-governmental organization
PAU          Poverty Alleviation Unit
RENAM13    Mozambique National Resistence
NSA          Novo Sistema de Abastecimento (Food Rationing System)
UEM          Universidade Eduardo Mondlane
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
USAID        United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMFCL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF   M                U
FOOD SECURHUtCAPACTrY BUMIDNG PROJECI
Table of Contents
Credit and Project Summary    ........................................ I
L      iNTRODUCTION   . ......................................  1
A. Overview  ...........................................   1
R.    FOOD SECURfTY CONTEXT AND ISSUES                         ..................... 3
A. Definidon of Food Security ............          .....................  3
B. Food Secuity and Nutrition Status and Causes   ......         .............. 4
C. Food Seurity Strategy and Issues  .........           ...................  8
D. Ihe Bank's Role ....................................... 15
IIL TH PROJECT.                                                                           15
A. Objectives md Summary Descripdon .15
B. Detailed Features .16
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .......................... 20
A. Project Cost ..          .......................................  20
B. Project Financimg  . .....................................  22
C. Prouremen  .........................................    23
D. Disbursements  . ......................................  25
E. Accounts and Audit .....................................  6
V.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMLEENTATON   ....                               .........  26
A. Project Management ..................................... 26
B. Implementadon  ........................................  27
VI.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  ........                     ...................  30
VW.   ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS   ......                           ..............  31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Moambique In May
1992. Mission members were Ms. Neeta Sirur (task manager, economist), Mr. Barry Riley (food
security specialist), Ms. Jacomina de Regt (training specialist), Mr. Lawrce Salmen (beneficiary
assessment specialist) and Mr. Daniel Owen (evaluation design). Peer Reviewers for the project
were Messrs. Robert Hindle, Roger Sulivan and Harold Walters. Secretarial support was
provided by Ms. R. Mendoza. Mr. Roger Grawe and Mr. Stephen Denning are the managing
Division Chief and Department Director respectively for the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Annex I      Pov&tty A.leviton Unit                                .          .33
1 Povwty Alitio Unit..................  *................... 3
Amux 2       Professional Mozambia Staf: Tem  of Reference  . ............... 40
Anmu 3       IDA-Finaced Log Term Policy Adviser: Tms ofReference . ........ 53
Annex 4       nformation Flows to the Food Security Polcy Unit        ........ SS
Anex 5       Su y Accounts Cost Summary
S_ry i=count by Peoject Component ....................... 59
Anmex 6      EstimatedDisbursements     ...........................  61
Annex7       ImplementatlonSchedule ..................................  62
Annex 8   Supervision Plan .        ........................... 65
Amex 9       LessonsLearned n Project Implementation ...................... 68
Anex 10      Lst of Documents in the Project Prof.e  ..                          70
Chat
Chat I       Struur of the Natnal Plaming Commission .72
Chart2       Moabie: Goverment Organizational Chart ........        ........... 73



FOOD SE  C^PY BUILJEGPOEC
C£D AND PROZ   SWMARY
lBorrower                  Government of Mozambique
lNenefidiarIes:            National Planning Commission, Eduardo Mondilane University,
Center for Agricultural Training and the Ministry of Health
Credit Amount:             SDR 4.6 million (US$6.3 million equivalent)
TOfmE:                     Standard with 40 years maturity
Pr"oioc  Ob3ves
The overall objective of this project is to strengthen national capacity to confront
and deter the major causes of food insecurity in Mozambique through the formulation and
implementation of appropriate food security policies and programs. Specific objectives are to: (a)
establish an institutional focal point for food security policy development and coordination of
strategy implementation as a key component of poverty reduction in the Mozambican context; (b)
improve understanding of food security issuer and responses among decision-r ' s and staff of
relevan' sectoral ministries; and (c) incorporate research on and teaching of fow security-related
issues and smallholder agriculture in university level pre-service training programs.
Zoject Descripfion
Linked to these objectives, the project would have three main components. First,
poligy deepn through strengthening capacity for monitoring of poverty and household food
security status and strategies and policy analysis within a recentiy-established Poverty Alleviation
Unit (PAU) of the National Planning Commission (CNP). The PAU which would be comprised
of about five professional Mozambican staff and two long-term advisers, would, int a,
maintain a database of survey and line ministry data relating to poverty and food security status,
monitor efficacy of strategies/sectoral programs in reducing poverty and household food
inseurity, undertake policy studies to inform decision-makers, evaluate relevant sectoral
investment plans, and promote inter-sectoral debate/action on key issues. Funds would be
included for fellowships, policy studies and information dissemination to enable the unit to
effectively address food security issues. Second, awareness-ceton and inservice
through: (a) support for two national food security conferences, a series of workshops and high-
level policy seminars to create widespread awareness and debat. of food security issues; (b)
intensive short-term training courses for managerial/technical central and provincial staff in
analysis of food security issues and appropriate responses - including concepts/methods,
marketing, production, planning/management, macroeconomic aspects and household access - to
be offered through Centro de Formacao Agrario (CFA) in Maputo; (c) development of training
modules on food security topics for inclusion in training courses for district and provincial staff at
CFA's provincial ceers to be offered as part of ongoing rural development programs (selection



. ii -
and ccntent of the modules would be tailored to accord with participants' educational backgrounds
and responsibilities); and (d) curriculum development, pedagogical materials, textbooks and staff
development for the inclusion of food security/nutrition-related courses at medium level training
institutes in health. Thhd, strengthening the food security dimension of university-level ;
service traini       through support for development/implementation of research and
teaching on smallholder farming and food security issues at the University Faculty of Agriculture,
including technical cooperation with overseas universities, faculty exchanges, research funds,
computer equipment, books and other pedagogical materials.
Poeet Benefts
The principal benefit of the project will be enhanced national capacity to analyze
the major causes of food insecurity in Mozambique and to design and implement macro- and
sectoral programs so as to maximize their potential for relieving household food insecurity. In so
doing, it should Improve implementation of the food security strategy, a crucial element of
Mozambique's poverty alleviation, and by implication, overall development, efforts.
Establishment of a single institutional entity to coordinate key food security information, polic;
and strategic functions will help maintain focus on food security issues and foster greater
coherence among sectoral actions; and, by training civil servants and students at a number cf
levels to gain a better understanding of food security issues and their relationship to national
development objectives, the project should also help create sustained commitment to food
security, even in the event of senior personnel changes as a result of the uncertain poltdcal
sitation - a necessary condition given the long-term nature of Mozambique's food security
problems.
The project's main risk is the possible dilution of the training and capacity
building objectives as a result of low motivation and professionalism in the civil service - in turn
stemming from low educational levels as well as a weak public sector incentive structure. This
broader issue, is being addressed by the Government with the assistance of the Bank and other
donors through analytic work, the Economic Recovery Credit and an FY93 Capacity Building
Project which jg aLia seeks to improve pay scales, promotion structures etc. throughout the
Mozambican civil service. Secondly, there are the inevitable risks associated with any project
which attempts to introduce *new" concepts to policy-makers within a relatively fragile
institutional environment. These are, however, being minimized by designing considerable
flexibility into the project to allow for "course corrections" during implementation, and in
emphasizing dhe need for monitoring and evaluation in each of the components. In addition, a
mid-term review will be aried out to assess the project's impact and determine if any major
revisions to project design are warranted.
Environmental Assessment Ca r: C



- ii; -
ProJect Cost Summary by Project Component
(US$ Mifilons)l/
Total
X       Base
Local      Foregin      Tetat      L.f.&    CostA
- tA.-   COORDINATION AND
POLtCY DEVELOPMENT                        0.5         2.3        2.8       83.2     39.3
- 8.     AWARENESS/SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT                               1.1         1.0        2.1      49.8      30.0
-  .    PRE-SERVICE TRAININE                          0.2        2.0        2.2       91.0     30.7
.Totat:BASE COSTS                                     1.8        EJ         7.1       Z       - 
Physical Contingencies                      0.1         0.4        0.5       77.1      6.4
Price-Contingencies                         0.2         0.4        0.6       70.8      8.S
sTotalPROJECT COSTS                                   2.1                   8;.       75.3    116.9
=Jl4utbet. may not ad up exactly du, to rounding.



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOOD SECURIY CAPACITY BUILDINGQ. QIE
I. INELQD_UCjMO
A. QOLv_riew
1.01         With an average GNP per capita of about US$80, Mozambique's population
of 15.3 million is not only the poorest in the world but also one of the most food insecure,
despite the country's rich potential for avr-ultural production. For about the first decade
after Independence (in 1975), Mozamb. e experienced a steady decline in real GDP - with a
30 percent fall in overall production oc%4rring in the first half of the 1980s. The agriculture
sector, the dominant sector of the Mozambican economy, was especially hard hit due to a
combination of factors including: (a) a colonial legacy of abysmally low investment in rural
infrastructure and basic economic and social services; (b) a series of droughts and floods; (c)
an escalating civil war and concomitant rural insiewity, widespread popullation displacement
and disruption of trading and communications channels; and (d) inappropriate economic
policies, especially rigid pricing policy and undue emphasis on large capital-intensive
investments in the centrally-planned state farm sector coupled with neglect of the family and
private sectors. Between 1980 and 1986, the current value of agricultural exports declined by
around 60 percent and marketed production of basic food crops fell by about 65 percent.
Subsistence production in the family sector is also believed to have declined substantially.
Over the same period, budgetary constraints and rising military spending related to u.
decade-long civil war severely limited expenditures on basic social services (e.g., water,
health and nutrition programs) and economic infrastructure. By 1986, the economy was beset
by shortages, with barter, inflation and parallel markets for goods and foreign exchange
becoming increasingly widespread. The country's external position was also precarious,
aggravated by an enormously overvaluled exchange rate.
1.02         In response to the deteriorating economic situation, the Government of
Mozambique embarked in 1987 on a comprehensive Economic and Social Recovery Program
(ESRP) in close consultation with the World Bank and IMF. Reforms are focused on several
key macro-conomic policy issues, including the exchange rate, foreign exchange allocation
system, trade policies, pricing policy, the budget (including the composition of public
expenditure) and credit. In addition, the reforms address policy and institutional issues in the
key sectors. In agriculture, the main focus of reforms under the ESRP so far has been on
pricing and marketing policy, with a view to restoring the incentives for agricultural
production and marketing - e.g., since 1987, prices of all agricultural commodities, including
food crops, have been increased several fold as an incentive to restored production. Efforts
are also underway to rebuild (or build new) physical infrastructure and revive social services
to a minimum acceptable level. In the medium term, it is expected that urban and rural off-
farm employment and incomes will also gradually improve as increased agricultural growth
and incomes stimulate agro-industries and industrial production of investment and consumer
goods. The recent (October 1992) achievement of a peace accord between the Government
and RENAMO (Mozambique National Resistance), if accompanie4 by successful
Jemobilization of military personnel, resettlement and decentralization, should - in the
medium- to longer-run - substantially enhance the impact of ESRP policy initiatives in
stimulating economic growth.



-2 -
1.03         The reform measures taken by the Government under the ESRP, including
exchange rate and domestic price adjustments, cuts in subsidies to restore fiscal balance, and
shif*s in the composition of public expenditure are fundamentally sound and, indeed, essential
for the resumption of long-range economic growth and, ultimately, a level of prosperity
consistent with the achievement of household food security and poverty alleviation. At the
same time, it is clear that ESRP macro-economic and sectoral policies/programs will need to
be continuously monitored and tailored to ensure that their potential for relieving problems of
household food insecurity/poverty is realized - both during the current period of
reconstruction following the peace accord, and beyond. Moreover, it would be unrealistic to
expect that the ESrZP incentives, even in the new peace environment, could bear fruit
sufficiendy quicldy or on a large enough scale to provide food security for all households
within a short time frame. In all likelihood, many households will, in the medium- and
perhaps even longer-term, remain beyond the scope of macro-strategies designed to stimulbt
growth, due to a variety of interacting factors. These include: (a) the severe psychological
and physical traumas suffered by large segments of the Mozamnbican population displaced or
otherwise affected by the decade-long war; (b) the inevitable adjustment period required, even
under normal circumstances, for large numbers of the work force to learn the new skills
required to take advantage of emnployment opportunities/ incentives; and (c) the limited
institutional capacity in Mozambique for rapid adoption of new measures or for development
of substantial new employment- or income-generating enterprises. Finally, there will always
be In Mozambique, as elsewhere, a small proportion of labor-scarce households (e.g., female-
headed households, households with high dependency ratios or households where adult
members are disabled or otherwise unable to work) who will remain susceptible to food
inseurity even in an environment of relative prosperity.
1.04         Minimizing the food insecurity of households which remain vulnerable to it
during the ongoing economic transition and beyond is a major element of Mozambique's
poverty reduction strategy and has therefore received high priority in both the Mozambican
Government's reform agenda and in the Bank's country assistance strategy for Mozambique.
In 1989/90, a World Bank/FAO/USAID team, working in close cooperation with a
Giovernment resource group, undertook a wide-ranging analysis of the food security situadon
In Mozambique. The recommendations of the resulting report, "Mozambigue: Food Security
Stud" Report No. 7963-MOZ, issued in FY90, were well-received by Government and
formed the basis for formulation of a Government food security strategy paper which was
presented to donors at a Consultative Group Meeting in Paris. Although some progress has
since been made in implementing the food security strategy, it is nonetheless apparent that
progress has been hampered by insufficient institutional capacity to follow up in a focused
way on strategy implementation, undertake ongoing policy analysis to modify/update the
strategy to accord with changing circumstances, forge linkages between the various sectors
necessary to tho multi-faceted food security effort or systematically analyze the food security
impact of individual macroeconomic and sectoral policies. Moreover, the unpreparedness of
the country to mount a coordinated response to the recent (1992) drought, which severely
affected the southern half of the country, highlighted the limited capacity for dealing with
food security issues in the present institutional framework. It is this capacity botfleneck that
the project proposed later in this report seeks to address. The project is described in Chapter
m, following a detailed description of the food security context and major issues in Chapter
I.



- 3 -
HX. FOOD SECURIIrY CONTExl AND ISSUES
A. D¢flnltion of Food Security
2.01          Food security may be defined as access by all people at all times to sufficient
food for h healthy and productive life. Within the framev.ork of this definition, attainment of
food security requires fulfilling certain conditions for the supply, demand and household-level
utilization of food. At the national level, an adequate aggregate supply of food (either from
domestic production or imports) is a necessary condition for food security - however, It is
not sufficient. The 'access" part of the definition of food security is also critical. Food
security requires that all households have the ability to acquire enough food, either by
producing it themselves or by generating sufricient income to purchase needed food
suppliesl/. Moreover, to the extent that household food security is not an end in itself but
rather a means to achieving an active and healthy life, it also requires satisfactory health
conditions and social practices -- to ensure efficient allocation of available food among
household members and optimal physiological utiilzation by individual household members of
nutrients contained in the food. These factors, in turn, have an impact on nutritional status,
and, hence, on the capacity of individuals to work and so provide food.
Figure 2.1: The Food eurity/Nutrition Cycle
.~~~~~~~~t
tSOZ At btSTATUS
Modified from Interaction of Nutrition and Infection: A Review, Andrew Tomkcins and Fiona
Watson, March 1988.
2.02          The above simplified model of the food security/nutrition cycle, encompasses
a number of factors which affect household food security and nutritional status. In1= AU
these include: the economic environment arid employment or income-generation opportunities;
I/ There are examples where countries have had large stocks of food at the national level, or have
even exported food surpluses, while at thie sanme time many segments of the population suffer
firom malnutrition because they were not able to produce enough food to cover their needs and/or
were too poor to buy it.



-4-
food imports and the range of variables (e.g., land, climate, prices, Input availability etc.)
which influence domestic agricultural producdon; the physical fitness and health of the
population; household characteristics Including age distribution and dependency ratios; and
socis-cultural beliefs surrounding diets and feeding practices. As this suggests, achievement
of household food security in most poor countries Is necessarily a long-term, multi-sectora!
process requiring sustained national conm;nitment and effbrt. This, i turn, presupposes
sufficient national capacity to study the deternninants of food insecurity on an ongoing basis,
as well as to analyze and implement policies in a number of sectors so as to enhance their
potential for relieving food security/nutrition problems.
B. Food Security and Nutrition Status and Cues
2.03         Overall, food security problems are enormous in Mozambique today, affecting
about half of all Mozamb.can households in most recent years and perhaps as many as three
quarters during 1991-92, given the severe drought in the southern half of the country. Levels
of acute malnutrition are at the upper end of the range seen in sub-Saharan Africa, and, when
placed in the context of extremely high levels of infant and child mottality - about one-third
of all children die before the age of flive - begin to assume alarming proportions. Moreover,
the exceedingly high levels of chronic malnutrition (between 40-60% according to spot
surveys) demonstrate the extremely precarious nutritional situation of l&age numbers of
Mozambican families.
2.04         Mozambique's enormous problems of food security exist both because of
national food supply shortages and distribution problems and because many poor households
in rural and urban areas do not have the ability to produce or purchase sufficient quantities of
food. In addtion, nutritional deficiencies resulting from inadequate food intake at the
household level are exacerbated by the common occurrence of many infectious and parasitic
diseases which are associated with malnutrition. The factors contributing to food security
problems and nutritional stress in Mozambique are various and differ somewhat between rural
and urban areas. These are discussed below in some detail as they highlight the diversity of
underlying causes of Mozambican food insecurity and underscore the need for a coordinated
multi-sectoral response if improvement is to be achieved. Further details are available in
"Mozambique: Food Security Study" Report No. 7963-MOZ.
2.05         Rural Food Security. As noted in Chapter I, para 1.04, severe declines in
family sector agricultural nrnduction over the course of more than a decade have led to a
significant deficit in rural tood supplies. As discussed, the decline in production bas been
partially the result of economic and policy factors - e.g., distortions in domestic agricultural
pricing policies, neglect of the family sector in favor of (relatively inefficient) mechanized
state farms, shortages of key inputs and reduced efficiency/incentives of marketing systems -
many of which the Government has begun to address within the ESRP framework. It is also
attributable to 'emergency' factors including a series of climatic disasters (droughts and
floods) during the 1980s and lack of security in much of the countryside caused by armed
bands of anti-Government insurgents. These emergencies have displaced millions of tural
households or otherwise reduced their capacity for food self-provisioning, leaving them
primarily dependent on relief supplies of food or on marketed food to meet nutritional
requirements.



2.06         Govermment estimates prepared for food aid appeals to donors under the so-
called Emergency Program indicate that the food security status of about SS% of the rural
populat on is unknown, with about 10% of rural dwellars estimated to be assured of food
supplies through self-provisioning and agricultural einployment. The remaining 35% or so
(categorized as "displaced" and "affected" households) are heavily dependent on relief or
marketed food distribution to meet nutritional requirements. Moreover, to the extent that
relief supplies are intended to be supplementd by self-provisioning to meet food needs,
households In this latter group are also often dependent on emergency supplies of seeds and
tools. The food security status of the displaced and affected groups is, therefore, necessarily
related to the Government's ability to reach them on a regular basis. This task has been
immensely complicated by the extraordinarily difficult logistics conditions prevailing in the
country where significant areas ;nave been totally inaccessible by land and other areas were
accessible only with heavily armed escort or by extremely expensive airlift. Government
records show that during the past year an average of only about two-thirds of the country's
125 districts were reached in any given month, suggesting that many displaced and affected
households suffered periods of food insecurity when no relief was available. Moreover, as a
result of the drought, many rural households not categorized as displaced or affected also
experienced grave food insecurity over the past year, in the absence of relief.
2.07         The recent peace accord signed between Government and RENAMO shl;uid
improve land 4ccess to many rural locations. However, given likely continued shortages of
trucks, other logistical requirements and managerial capacity to implement the massive relief
program required, it is doubtful that all nutritionally-deprived households (war and drought
affected) can be reached with food or with the seeds and other inputs necessary to prepare for
the next planting season. Even in the absence of drought, on-farm food supply problems are
widely apparent in Mozambique. Recent information gathered by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Michigan State University suggests, for example, that average farm sizes ki Cabo
Delgado Province are substantially smaller than previously realized - with obvious
implications for the ability of average farm households to grow and store sufficint food for
self-provisioning. Small-scale pre-drought surveys conducted by the Ministry of Health in
selected areas of Tete, Manica and Sofala showed that most households surveyed had only
about 4 months of food stocks available, versus 10-11 months of stocks needed till the next
harvest.
2.08         Apart from subsistence food crop production, the food security of many rural
households has also traditionally been dependent on income from remittances by migrant
labor, exchanges and sales of cash crops and non-food items produced by the family, livestock
holdings, and employment on plantations and large farms. In the past few years, major
declines have been apparent in income earned from these activities. Firstly, revision of hiring
policies by the South African Government and the Chamber of Mines s.nce 1985 has
significandy reduced employment of Mozambicans in that country, causing substantial
hardship to rural households in the arid southern provinces of Mozambique from which many
miners had been recruited. Moreover, employment opportunities for Mozambicans in South
Afican agriculture have also been affected by increased expulsions of Mozambican
agricultural workers by South African authotiies since 1986. Secondly, the combination of
drought and insurgency has had serious repercussions for livestock holdings in the southern
provinces and parts of Tete, where the rural population has traditionally depended on income
from cattle-raising, given the absence of the tse-tse fly, and poor agricultural conditions.
Thirdly, in the northern provinces (and to some extent Inbambane and Gaza in the south),
where cashew and cotton production is an important contributor to household income,



-6-
marketing declined by over 50% during the 1980s - with obvious consequences for household
food security. Increased producer prices under the ESRP have led to some increases in
marketing in the past two years, although sales have now fallen again as a result of the
drought. Finally, potential for income-generation from production and sale (or barter) of food
and non-food items has been sharply reduced because of the severe rcduction in coverage of
rural shops and other trading enterprises, many of which have been destroyed by insurgents.
The reduction in rural trade has also meant that many rural communities are now cut off from
access to key agricultural inputs and basic consumer goods.
2.09         Urban Food Security. In urban areas where only a small proportion of food
consumed can be derived from household production, food security is largely dependent on
physical availability of marketed food from domes+ic and external sources and the ability of
households to purchase adequate amounts of food at prevailing official and parallel market
prices. Since 1987, given increases in external food donations for market support, increased
marketed production from green zones surrounding cities and improved logistics, problems of
absolute food shortage have been largely ameliorated in the two main cities of Maputo and
Beira (which together contain about two-thirds of the urban population). Temporary scarcity
of marketed food supplies (due mainly to logistical difficulties) is still common in many
smaller cities/towns, where, however, there is often greater scope for partial self-provisioning
through cultivation of garden plots. Thus, although shortages of marketed food supplies are
not inconsequential contributors to problems of food insecurity/ malnutrition in urban areas,
the role of household financial access issues appears to be far greater given recent changes in
consumer prices for food vis a vis wage policies and employment conditions.
2.10         Comparison of wage and price data from the start of the ESRP to the present
shows that there has been a significant increase in both official and parallel market prices
relative to wages of all the basic food commodities over the past 34 years - implying that
significant real declines have taken place in the purchasing power of even wage-earning
households. Today, it is estimated that it would be necessary to have at least two formal
wage earners per household (or the eacrivalent) to meet the food requirements of an average
household with 7-8 members. A 1988 Maputo household survey showed that a-erage
household food expenditures amounted to nearly two-thirds (61.2%) of total exptnditures -
an indicator of absolute poverty - and may well have reached 70% (a level associated with
"desperate" poverty) or more in the lowest income households. Moreover, survey data
indicate that cooking fuel and water expenditures respectively amount to an additional 17%
and 2% of total expenditures, indicating that between 80% and 90% of the total household
expenditures of the lowest income group are devoted to meeting nutritional requirements.
2.11         Overall, the most food insecure urban households are likely to be those
headed by adults without zny formal sector employment. Government and Bank estimates
suggest that only about one in 5.8 urban dwellers has regular wage employment - an
insufficient number to allow for two wage earners per household. A 1988 Ministry of Labor
(MOL) survey of Maputo found that of a total of 567,000 persons of working-age, only 45.9
percent claimed to have any kind of employment (formal or informal), including about 61,000
engaged in agriculture, fishing or petty trade. The remainder were seeking but unable to find
gainfiu work, or were retired or physically incapacitated. A particularly striking finding was
that among female-headed households (21.7% of total households), more than half had no
regularly employed member. This suggests that female-headed households as well as those
with disabled or aged adults constitute a particularly vulnerable group from the standpoint of
food security. Available household level data show that while food insecurity is widespread



in urban areas, about a third of households - those at tile lowest per capita income levels -
are indeed facing extraordinarily serious food deficits relative to requirements. The reported
monthly food consumption for these households averages about 70-75 percent of basic cereal
requirements (63% of requirements for the bottom 1 1% of households).
2.12          "',è'! eCUrity and Social Services. As defined at the outset of this Chapter,
physical fitner - . .uJ 1-ralth have a key role    ay in assuring adequate utilization of
household foo  - .    by individual memuers, achieving satisfactory nutritional status and
so producing ot e0r .ing income for food to maintain/improve household food security. In the
Mozambican cor*,ixt, given extremely low provision of basic services such as water,
sanitation and health care, the impact of infection/ illness on nutritional status and, hence, on
household food security deserves special attention. Today, life expectancy at birth - a key
indicator of health status - is only about 48 years in Mozambique, well below the average for
low income countries (62 years). Estimates of deaths of children under 5 years range from
about 325 to 375 per thousand live births, based on fragmentary evidence taking into account
the impact of the war. Available data on causes of illness/death clearly indicate that the
principal causes of morbidity and mortality are infectious and parasitic diseases. In addition,
a review of available hosDital admissions records indicates that trauma is frequently the
leading cause of hospitalization - not surprisingly in view of the ongoing security crisis.
2.13         While the impact on household food security of disability resulting from war-
related or other trauma is relatively clear - the work capacity of disabled persons is
necessarily limited - the relationship between infection and nutritional status is more complex
and requires some elaboration. In general, it is believed that infection or disease affects
nutritional status in three ways, depending on illness: (a) by inducing anorexia (or a reduced
desire for food) in an infected person - although food requirements may actually increase
during illness; (b) by contributing to malabsorption of nutrients in food taken; and (c) by
causing physical debilitation over a relatively long period and thus preventing adult sufferers
from working to provide food. In addition, malnutrition is itself associated with susceptibility
to illness, implying an interactive relationship between disease and nutritional status. Finally,
micronutrient deficiencies, some of which are widespread in Mozambique, cause impairment
in sufferers of all ages, thus affecting productivity and, hence, food security. Among the
most severe micronutrient deficiencies in Mozambique are: iron-deficiency anaemia; Vitamin
A deficiency and consequent xerophthalmia; and iodine deficiency-induced goiter and (and in
extreme cases) cretinism.
2.14         The high levels of mortality and morbidity in Mozambique, and, in particular,
the common occurrence of many infectious and parasitic diseases associated with malnutrition,
suggest that households inadequately covered by basic health services or those living in
unhygienic environments are likely to be extraordinarily vulnerable to nutritional problems
and food insecurity. This is supported by findings of the 1988 MOC/MOH Maputo
household survey which show strong correlations between poor sanitary conditions and the
incidence of malnutrition or insufficient growth. An analysis of the relationship between
some measures of household living conditions and the incidence of malnutrition in children
under 3 years shows a very strong correlation between non-food factors and nutritional status.
In general, the relationship between the availability of sanitary facilities/safe water sources
and nutritional status is strongest, consistent with the hypothesis that water-borne infections
and parasitic diseases have an important negative imj,act on nutritional status in Mozambique.
Indeed, even taking into account likely income effects, the finding that children living in
homes without latrines run a seven times greater risk of acute malnutrition (low weight for



- 8 -
height) indicates an unusually close relationship between hygienic conditions precipitating
infection and disease, and malnutrition. While less dramatic, relationships between crowded
living conditions (density per room) and malnutrition also suggest that the respiratory diseases
that they are associated with may be important determinants of nutritional status.
2.15          ummary. In summary, the foregoing analysis demonstrates clearly that
household level malnutrition/food insecurity is a problem of enormous proportions in
Mozambique today - affecting about half of all households in some degree and severely
affecting at least 60% of these in both rural and urban areas. The factors contributing to it
are various, including exogenous factors such as climatic disasters, political problems
manifested in the security crisis, past failures in economic policy and the inevitable shocks
associated with necessary adjustments, difficult conditions for agriculture and logistics, and
generally poor health and sanitary conditions. To combat malnutrition/food insecurity in these
circumstances will require a multi-pronged approach aimed at developing and implementing
(or strengthening) strategies for coping better within them. Government programs/actions to
address food security problems are discussed in paras 2.16 -2.20 below.
C. Food Security Strate  and Issues
2.16         Until recently, Mozambican authorities viewed food security as essentially a
question of ensuring adequate food supplies at the national level. Therefore, when declines in
domestic agricultural production in the post-Independence period led to major shortfalls in
aggregate food supplies relative to requirements, the country's main food security strategy
was to mobilize adequate food imports through food aid appeals to the donor community.
Overall, Mozambique has been extraordinarily successful in mobilizing food aid contributions
from donors. On average, annual food aid cereal imports have equalled more than half a
million tons since 1988 - representing almost 90 percent of the total supply of cereals
marketed commercially in urban and peri-urban areas or distributed free throughout the
countryside. Largely as a result of these substantial donor food aid flows, the availability of
food in the country as a whole has been reasonably satisfactory, despite the continuing low
levels of domestic agricultural production.
2.17         Distribution of the imported food is carried out mainly through two
governmental agencies: (a) the Departamento de Prevencao e Combate das Calamidades
Naturais (DPCCN), a relief agency attached to the Ministry of International Cooperation
(MIC), which assesses rural food requirements and is responsible for free distribution of food
to rural households displaced or otherwise seriously affected by war-related insecurity or
climatic factors such as drought or floods; and (b) the Ministry of Commerce (MOC) which
estimates food supplies needed for commercial sale, oversees (in collaboration with local
governments) the operation of food rationing systems in Maputo and Beira, and supplies food
to wholesalers/retailers in other cities and towns. AGRICOM, a state marketing agency
linked to the MOC, purchases food grain surpluses from domestic producers and, in turn,
resells to the ration system and to commercial traders. During the 1980s, however, there was
significant shrinking of the commercial trading network (especially in rural areas) as a result
of both excessive bureaucratic regulation of trade and rising insecurity linked to the ongoing
civil war. As noted in para 2.06, security-related transportation and logistical problems also



-9-
hinder DPCCN operations, so that absolute shortages of food occur on a spot basis in much
of the country-side.
2.18         Over the past 2-3 years, a number of factors have combined to force a
reexamination of Mozambique's food security strategy of reliance on food aid imports and
distribution of food so-mobilized via government agencies. First, as household food
insecurity continued to persist at high levels even in areas with satisfactory food supplies, it
became clear that a number of access issues (e.g., family farm production, income and
employment generation, access to trading channels and social services etc.) are critical to the
food security effort and need to be addressed alongside the food import
mobilization/distribution activities. Second, signs of donor fatigue in relation to the
Emergency Program, including (though to a lesser extent) its food aid component, drew
atention to the need to improve efficiency in the utilization of food aid in the short run and to
develop a more comprehensive food-security strategy that could reduce reliance on food aid in
the medium- to longer-run. Finally, the overall trend within government to reduce the long-
standing dichotomy between the Emergency Program and the ESRP framework, especially
now as the country enters a crucial reconstruction phase following the civil war, suggested the
need to examine more closely the possible effects of each program on the other in achieving
food security (as well as other development) objectives.
2.19         In this context - the government, in close consultation with the Bank and
some other donors - has developed a more comprehensive strategy for addressing issues of
household level food insecurity. The basic strategy adopted is to concentrate resources on
increasing productivity of smallholders and on creating sustainable employment and income-
generating opportunities for the most vulnerable households, with a view to gradually
reducing dependence on distribution of free or subsidized food on a large scale. In addition,
the strategy recognizes that complementary efforts will be required to achieve improvements
in access to basic public services such as health, education, clean water and sanitation, and to
put in place a limited 'safety net' of direct and indirect income transfers targeted to
households seen as most vulnerable to serious malnutrition or starvation. The five main
features of Mozambique's food security strategy are summarized below:
*     One key emphasis of the strategy is to improve the resource transfer efficiency
of food aid, which will in the medium term at least constitute an essential
component of food security in Mozambique. To the extent that food aid
represents a resource of considerable magnitude in Mozambique, the strategy
recognizes that its use should be subject to the same efficiency standards that
are applied to financial resources and that food aid could be a valuable
resource in efforts to promote overall socio-economic development. Among
specific measures included in the strategy are: (a) developing a single
framework for food aid valuation, management of revenue from food sales
and setting of priorities for use of revenue; (b) better coordinating food aid
arrivals; and (c) ensuring that relief food distribution does not act to depress
domestic production and rural commercial trade, inter aiW, through
monetization of food aid where feasible.
a     Another major emphasis is to increase productivity in agriculture, where,
despite the uncertain security situation, performance could be strengthened.
Taking into account recent Government action to restore price incentives for
agricultural production, the strategy calls for concentration of public



^ 10-
investment on the family (rather than the state) sector, from the standpoints of
both enhancing sectoral productivity and increasing household food security.
This will involve improving provision of basic agricultural services (research,
credit, training and extension), improvements to the marketing system and
development of specific interventions for areas with high drought risk or land
scarcity.
Although increasing productivity of family farmers should help improve food
security for many households, the potential for widespread rural development
remains limited given the massive destruction of rural infrastructure during the
civil war - thus necessitating complementary measures to increase non-
agricultural employment and income-generation in rural as well as urban
areas. Therefore, the strategy calls for increased employment through a
combination of: (a) assistance to labor-intensive businesses in the private
sector; (b) training programs targeted to unemployed members of the poorest
households; and (c) public employment programs focused on developing/
maintaining basic infrastructure using labor-intensive technologies where
feasible. To the extent possible, jobs so-created are to be targeted explicitly
to members of vulnerable households, using self-targeting devices such as
paying less than minimum wage or promoting micro-enterprises and informal
sector activities which tend to have more low-wage workers.
*     Taking into account the likely difficulties and time involved in putting in place
large-scale agricultural development/employment programs and the fact that
there exist labor-scarce households (e.g., with disabled household heads)
unable to benefit from employment opportunities, the strategy also calls for a
temporary safe1y net for households currently at risk of food insecurity. The
two-part safety net proposed invol- as: (a) provision of indirect income
transfers through subsidies and reuuced turnover taxes on so-called "inferior"
commodities (e.g., sorghum or yellow maize) consumed mainly by the poor;
ana (b) pi vision of direct income transfers (through DPCCN in rural areas
and through establishment of a new scheme for urban areas) to households
deemed to be most vulnerable on the basis of pre-established criteria. By
helping to maintain human capital in a difficult period, the safety net would
not only help families in need but also be a vital contributor to longer-term
socio-economic development and growth.
*     Finally, the strategy emphasizes the need to ameliorate public health
conditions through increased investments in rehabilitation of water and
sanitation systems and health infrastructure and services. In addition, it
suggests measures to improve control of micronutrient deficiencies and
specific communicable diseases, in particular diarrhea, measles, malaria and
intestinal parasites, which have severe nutritional consequences. A common
thread in the measures included is the need to increase community
participation or utilize alternative channels/organizations outside the formal
health system.
2.20          If implemented, the foregoing strategy would de much to ameliorate the food
security situation of Mozambican households in the short- and, -pecially, medium- to longer-
run. Since adoption of the strategy, some steps have indeed been taken towards



- 11 '
implementation of some of Its elements - notably (1) work by a joint donor-government
committee to arrive at a common framework for valuation of food aid and use of counterpart
funds generated from its sale, and (ii) establishment of a pilot system for targeted income
transfers to the most vulnerable urban households. Progress in other areas of the strategy is
also apparent, although not necessarily as a result of any conscious effort to promote food
security gm a. For example, the 1992-94 three-year national public investment plan of the
National Planning Commission ("CNP" in its Portuguese acronym) shows some increases in
resources allocated to smallholder agriculture, health, and water supply and sanitation; the
Government, with assistance from a number of donor agencies including the Bank, has been
placing greater emphasis than hitherto on provision of services to family farmers, ii  Ua
through the establishment of a special institute (INDER) aimed at promoting rural
development; and, effo'ts are being made to promote informal sector income-generatng
activities through a variety of governmental and non-governmental institutions, including
specialized entrepreneurship promotion agencies attached to the Ministry of Labor (MOL) and
the Ministry of Industry (MOI). All of these efforts, to the extent they are successful, will
help attenuate some of the principal causes of food insecurity. However, their impact is like!y
to be blunted by the lack of coordination among the various initiatives and the frequently-
perceived duplication of effort among agencies which unnecessarily strains the country's
limited implementation capacity.
2.21         Despite the progress cited in a few areas, there can be little doubt that the
overall level of effort in analyzing food security issues and implementing the national food
security strategy falls far short of responding to the challenges posed by Mozambique's
enormous food insecurity/malnutrition problems, and to the high priority given to food
security in Government policy statements. Indeed, much of what has already been
accomplished has been highly dependent on donor support and technical assistance. In part,
this is due to the broader problem of unusually weak technical and administradve capacity in
all Mozambican institutions, which has negatively affected policy research, program design
and implementation across the spectrum of development activities. This broader issue, which
stems, inter ali, from extremely low education levels in the country as a whole as well as
weak public sector incentive structures, was analyzed in a recent Bank sector study
Mozambique: Capacity Building Study, Report No. 10001-MOZ, whose recommnendations
will be implemented through two Capacity Building Projects, approved by the Executive
Directors in November 1992.
2.22         On the other hand, slow progress in food security is also attributaole to poor
understanding at all levels of Government of the complexity of food security issues,
inadequate attention to the linkages between the range of macro and sectoral activities which
necessarily form part of the response, and the legacy of past policy emphases which have left
tremendous gaps in the technical knowledge necessary to tailor policies/activities to effectively
address food security concerns. Moreover, given years of administrative control of the
economy there remains some considerable discomfort in cooperating effectively with non-
governmental organizations and the private sector - a necessary step in moving forward the
food security strategy, given the weakness of many government institutions and
communications and logistics difficulties resulting from many years of civil conflict. These
issues are discussed in some detail below as they form the background for the project
proposed in Chapter III of this report.



.12 -
2.23         One key constraint which has hindered rapid action In the food security area,
is the absence of an institutional focal point within Government to consolidate and disseminate
information on food security and nutrition status, monitor Implementation of or make
appropriate adjustments to the food security strategy, set realistic and measurable intermediate
targets, conduct or commission policy research to clarify questions which arise, or advise
senior policy-makers on the fbod security implications of planned policy changes or programs.
To date, the Food Security Department (FSD) of the MOC has X fnQ been performing
some of these functions, but given its primary role of mobilizing/coordinating food imports
and overseeing commercial food distribution (para 2.17) and the perennial shortage of
technically qualified Mozambican staff, the attention it can devote to these matters is
necessarily limited. Moreover, as a result of its location within a line ministry, the FSD is
frequently not viewed as a neutral party by the many sectoral agencies involved with food
security activities, so that its authority in policy and programmatic matters is frequently
subject to question.
2.24         In addition to the need to maintain sustained and focused policy attendon on
food security issues within Government, an institutional focal point is required to improve
coordination among the many Governmental units, donor and NGO agencies and other
organizations whose activities have direct or indirect implicatione for food security. The list
of agencies which follows, while not exhaustive, illustrates the large number of actors active
In the food security area and the concomitant need to improve coordination among them.
*     The Food Security Department of the Ministry of Commerce - responsible
for tracking food import requirements, for determining the total food aid
requirements for urban and rural markets, for tracking actual food aid pledges
from donors, the timing of food aid international shipments and arrivals at 14
points of entry and various monthly, quarterly and annual statistical reports on
all these areas.
*     Various units in the Ministry of Agriculture - responsible for gathering crop
surveillance and crop forecasting information, drought early warning, food
balance sheet data, including the status of food stocks, price data in rural
markets and socio-economic studies carried out by the National Directorate of
Agricultural Economics2/.
*     AGRICOM an agricultural marketing parastatal charged with buying surplus
food production from farmers and maintaining data on domestic marketed
production.
*     The Nutrition Surveillance Unit of the Ministry of Health responsible for
collecting nutrition information in all provinces and major urban and major
urban centers and for maintaining a health and nutrition information base.
Much of the information now being collected is growth faltering and low birth
weight data collected at health stations and posts around the country.
2/ See, for example a number of collaborative efforts explicitly undertaken to shed light on food
security-related topics in rural Mozambique such as 'A Socio-Econonic Survey of the
Smallholder Sector in the Province of Nampula: Research Method", Maputo, January, 1992.



- 13 -
*     The Mnit of Finance and Central Bank of Mozambique units responsible
for tracking, allocating and reporting on counterpart funds generated from the
sale of program food aid.
*     The Gabinete de Agoio a Populacao Vulneravel (GAPVU) and the Srag=
of State for Social Action - charged with gathering data on urban poverty and
implementing urban safety net programs.
*     The Institute for Rural Development aNlDER) - responsible for developing
and implementing a national program of rural development intended to
regenerate people-oriented rural economic development under the aegis of the
Economic and Social Recovery Program (ESRP).
*     The Gabinete de Promocao de Emprego (GPE) - responsible for gathering
information on urban employment and implementing employment-generating
activities involving small and informal private enterprises.
*      JUrban food distribution organizations - charged with making adequate levels
of basic foods available in commercial distribution in the major cities and
towns of Mozambique and with tracking food aid made available to support
the commercial sales program.
-     Thle Ministrv of Cooperation and DPCCN - responsible for emergency
assistance, both food and non-food, for estimating relief food requirements
and for tracking the flows of assistance to the intended beneficiaries and
estimating the numbeis and location of people needing emergency assistance.
*     Donor organizations such as WFP, UNDP, UNICEF, UNHCR which
undertake studies and data gathering in support of their programs.
*      ~NGO oreanization such as CARE, Save the Children, World Vision, MSF,
Action Aid and others which often gather information relevant to their
emergency and other feeding programs or programs of small project
assistance.
In the absence of a widely accepted food security focal point, cooperation among the various
agencies listed above is difficult to achieve at even the most basic level - e.g., the MOC and
DPCCN prepare their estimates for annual food import requirements independently of each
other. A major need, therefore, is to begin the process of linking the many food security-
related agencies more systematically, with a view to reducing actual or potential policy and
program dissonance, averting duplication of data gathering and analysis, and improving
understanding of the agencies' respective roles and activities as a prelude to better
coordination of their efforts to more effectively promote improved food security.
2.25         The coordination problems discussed in the preceding paragraphs stem in part
from the low exposure of staff within relevant line ministries and at province and district
levels to the relatively new (in Mozambique), more comprehensive, definition of food security
and the integrated multi-sectoral strategy required to implement it. This in turn has meant
that sectoral staff are often unable or unlikely to view food security as an important dimension
of their activities and thus reluctant to make even minor modifications to planned



- 14 -
programs/activities so as to enhance their food security impact. In some instances, sectoral
staff may appreciate the potential significance for food security of their programs but lack the
knowledge or experience to conceive of ways to realize their food security impact. There
does presently exist an informal food security group coordinated by FSI) which includes
representatives from a number of relevant ministries, but there is litrle evidence that the group
(which consists mainly of technical-level staff) has had much succ s in sensitizing their
respective ministries/agencies to the need for inter-agency coorC.  ..wn on food security issues
or to the food security dimension of the individual sectoral policies iiemselves. Officials at
the provincial and district levels have even less exposure than central staff to the emerging
concept of food security as a multi-sectoral issue, suggesting a risk that even the minimal
inter-sectoral coordination that has been achieved to date could dissipate as efforts to
decentralize planning and sectoral programming proceed.
2.26          A third critical constraint relates to the low level of technical knowledge or
experience in Mozambique regarding a principal element of the national food security strategy
- namely, family farming (including technologies, the smaliholder economy, rural sociology/
anthropology etc.). As previously noted, until recently, Government's primary emphasis in
agriculture has been on the development of large state farms and cooperatives, with virtually
no attention paid to the family sector. This policy emphasis is reflected not only in the
expenditure programs promoted by MOA in the post-independence period but also in .he
absence of research studies on the smallholder sector, and the scant attention paid to family
farming in agriculture training programs at both university and medium levels. Indeed, the
University Faculty of Agriculture (which will include within it agricultural economics as well
as the agronomy and rural engineering courses already taught) does not at present have any
staff competent to teach courses related to either smallholder production or food security
issues. To the extent that graduates of these programs form the bulk of staff working in
MOA and in agriculture programs at the provincial and district levels, the lack of attention to
the family sector in their training is naturally reflected in development programs/activities
they espouse.3/ Similar problems are apparent in other sectors (e.g., health) where the
nutrition/food security dimension receives inadequate attention in pre-service training of
personnel, leaving staff unable to cope with it once they enter their ministerial careers.
2.27          Finally, as previously mentioned (para. 2.22), there has been little attempt
thus far to meaningfully involve the private .ector and non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) in the food security effort, despite explicit recognition in the national strategy that
innovative attempts to involve agencies outside government are essential in view of
government financial and institutional capacity constraints. This stems in large part from the
relative inexperience of many governmental agencies in dealing with the private sector and
NGOs, given the socialist orientation of post-independence economic policies. Nonetheless,
in many key areas of the food security strategy - including microenterprise development,
improving coverage of social services, transportation of relief food supplies and agricultural
inputs - there is little doubt that effective coordination with private groups may be critical to
achieving strategy objectives. Indeed, effective collaboration with a range of organizations
X/ It should be noted, however, that in the past 2-3 years, with assistance from USAID, the World
Bank, FAO, UNICEF ana other donors, the MOA has begun to focus some more attention on the
family farming sector - including research on farming systems in Nampula and on land tenure
and provision of agricultural extension and credit to smallholders engaged in production of cotton
and cashew.



- 15 -
outside formal govermnent structures may be the only means of reaching some population
groups, long cut off during the decade-long civil war.
D. The Bank!' Role
2.28         In view of the multi-sectoral nature of Mozambique's food security problems
and strategic response, a number of Bank operations can be said to have contributed direcUy
or indirectly to ameliorating food security problems. In particular, operations in the
agriculture, health, urban and small enterprise sectors include one or more components that
have a substantial bearing on food security. Similarly economic work, especially public
expenditure reviews, have played a key role in bringing about shifts in public investment that
are consistent with the achievement of food security/poverty reduction objectives. However,
the first explicit step taken by the Bank in the food security area was preparation of the
previously-mentioned Mozambique Food Securit Study in FY90. The study sparked
considerable interest in food security questions both within Mozambique and in the donor
community and its recommendations have formed the basis for the Government's national
food security strategy. The project proposed here would be the first lending operation
devoted to food security, and is intended to help put in place the national institutional capacity
required to support a sustained food security effort. Indigenous capacity to fully integrate
concerns of household level food security - a key component of poverty reduction efforts in
the Mozambican context - into a range of sectoral policies and programs is especially crucial
at the present time and in the next few years as Mozambique proceeds wish natonal
reconstruction following the peace accord between Government and RENAMO. Besides this
project, two other projects to be presented to the IDA Board this fiscal year - one focused on
rural rehabilitation and the other on strengthening local government capacity - are also
expected to have a positive impact on food security for rural and urban households.
U. TVE PROJECr
A. Objetives and Swmnr Destimo
3.01         The overall objective of the proposed project is to strengten national capacity
to confront and deter the major causes of food/poverty insecurity in Mozambique through the
formulation and implementation of food security policies and programs. Within this broal
goal, specific objectives are to: (a) establish a strong institutional focal point for food security
policy development and coordination of strategy implementation; (b) improve understaing
of food security issues and responses among decision-makers and staff of relevant sectora
ministries; and (c) incorporate research on and teaching of food security-related issues in
university and pre-service vocational training programs.
3.02         In summary, the project would support the following activities:
(a)    Food security policy development and program monitorig through:
-     strengtheninlg a recently established Poverty Alleviation Unit (PAU) of
the CNP with the staff, equipment and other resources necessary to
monitor and address poverty and household food insecunrity issues



- 16 -
provision of short and long-term foreign and local technical assistance
to PAU
short- and long-term overseas fellowships for PAU staff
funds for policy research
support for analysis and dissemination of food security information
(Q)   Increasing national awareness of food security issues and strategies and
training personr.el in addressing food security issues through:
-     two national conferences on food security and a number of smaller
workshops on specific issues
-     providing a limited number of study tours to neighboring countries
-     a program of in-service training in food security for managerial and
technical staff of relevant line ministries at central, provincial and
district levels, working primarily through the Centro de Formacao
Agrario (CFA)
-     support for development and implementation of a course in nutrition
and food security at the Health Sciences Inst;tute in Maputo
(c)    Strengthening the food security content of relevant preo-ervice training
programs through:
-     support for research, teaching improvements, textbooks, and computer
equipment at the Agriculture Faculty of Eduardo Mon(ilane University
(EMU)
3.03         Within the context of the above components, particular attention would be
directed toward strengthening active private sector and NGO participation in programs aimed
at reducing food insecurity through: (a) involving private sector and NGO personnel in food
security workshops, conferences and seminars and in a planned intersectoral Food Security
Working Group; and O) emphasizing in all policy development and program design, ways to
involve the private sector both in the delivery of targeted transfers to food insecure groups
and in the creation of emr!oyment and income generating opportunities targeted to vulnerable
households.
B. Detaled Features
3.04         As outlined in the preceding description, the proposed project would have
three components linked to the detailed objectives presented in para 3.01. These are
described below.



- 17 -
3.05         cudIna    am upOiy Dm1soomnt (JS$2.8 mlltion)&I. Tbis
comporwat of the project would assist Government to strengthen its capacity for stun
monioring, policy analysis and program development In the areas of poverty reduction and
household food security through the establishment within CNP, of a Poverty Alleviation Unit
(PAU). The PAU which was legally established prior to credit negodats, replaces the
Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) Unit, combining some of the SDA Unit's key
poverty analysis functions with substantive work in the closely allied area of household food
security. In terms of its functional responsibilities and structural integration into the CNP, the
PAU - which would be on a par with other line departments of the National Direcorate of
Planning, be staffed from the outset by Mozanbican nationals, and whose director wold
report directly to the National Director of Planning - can be expected to be substandally more
effective than the SDA Unit whose impact was limited by a number of factors (discussed in
some detail in para 5.10 of this report). When fully operatiozal, the PAU would carry out
the following main functions: (a) develop and maintn a comprehensive poverty and
household food security data base, bringing together and analyzing relevant information
collected by a number of line ministries, NGOs and donor agencies (para 2.24 and Annex 4);
(b) monitor the implementation and impact of poverty reduction and food security strategies
and propose necessary changes, including evaluating te consequences of all major economic
policy initatives and institonal changes; (c) routinely review relevant sectoral policies and
investment plans to assess their poverty and food security impact and promote it-sectoral
coordination where necessa; (d) carry out or commission policy-oriented research and
negrt findings into strategy development; and (e) raise the level of knowledge and
appreciation of poverty and food security issues in Mozambique, especially among senior
policy-makers and provincial planning commissions through coordinaig a series of
conferences and workshops on the subject (see para 3.07 below). Terms of reference for the
PAU, providing futher details concerning PAU functions are given in Annexes 1 and 2.
preare by the FSPU and submitted to the Bank for review and comment. 33 frs
jworWan covering the period from July 1993 to Decemnber 1994 would be submitted as a
condon of credit effectiveness, with subseuent mw lans (for calendaryears 1995 1996
and 1997) submitted by Novmber of the grevious y. Fulfillment of the objectives outlined
In the workplan would be an important gauge by which to measure the successful
implementation of this component.
3.06          The PAU, would be comprised of five professional Mozambican staff with
university degrees (or equivalent experience) in social science disciplines, supported by two
long-term foreign advisers - in the areas of policy development (48 staff-montfs) ad
reseach and data analysis (36 staff-months) respectively (see Annex 3 for TORs).  Besids
the staffing, furnishing and equipping of the unit, the project would provide funds for conduct
of policy or specific research studhes focusing principally on poverty and food security aspects
of the reconstuction effort, improved cooperation between the public and private sectors In
achieving poverty/food security objectives, and drought preparedness. In addition, two long-
term (Master's level) and 4 short-term fellowships (about 8-10 weels each) would be provided
to allow FSPU staff to obtain specialized training in food security related fields. Three of the
five Mozambican professional staff were appointed to the PAU prior to credit negotiations.
DWurn nejgoiaton assurances wyn obtained thiat the remaini & to Mozambican
professional staff would be appointed no later than December 31. 1994. Of the two long-term
4/ Costs cited irn this section are net of physical and price confingecies.



- 18-
advisors envisaged, one (financed by FAO) is already in place and is expected to remain in
post for the duration of the project. The second advisor (to be financed by IDA) will be
appointed no lar than January 1994, to accord with the expected work program of the PAU.
3.07         InServe Fed Sedt  Awaren  Creatigg nd Tmining (US$2.1
million). This component, comprised of two sub-components, has the following interrelated
objectives: (a) to raise awareness of food security Issues nationally and begin to forge a broad-
based consensus on strategies for addressing them; and (b) to provide technical personnel
from line ministries at central, provincial and district levels with in-depth exposure to a range
of food security issues. To furiher the first of these aims, the project would support two
national food security conferences (in project years 2 and 4) aimed at high-level and
professional government staff from central and provincial levels, representatives of NGOs
and the private sector, and donor agency representatives. Main responsibility for coordination
of the conferences would rest with the PAU, which would convene an itersectoral working
group and host a series of small workshops (about three per year, with 20-30 participants
each) on selected food security-related topics in preparation for the conferences. Papers for
the conferences - all focused on Mozambican food security issues - would be commissioned
from both local and foreign experts and would be published in a conference report at the end
of each conference. Presentations would also be made at the conferences on relevant research
or other studies carried out under the aegis of ongoing donor supported projects, but which to
date have received only limited attention from senior decision-makers. In addition to the
conferences and workshops, the project would provide a limited number of regional study
tours (1 or 2 per year) to enable Mozambican personnel from a number of levels to travel to
neighboring countries (e.g., Zimbabwe, Malawi and Botswana) to observe food security
related activities. During neyotiations assurances were obtained that (i) the intersectoral
working ~un fnr conference planninf would-be convened n later than December 31. 1993:
Mi) the fis food securt conference would be held no later-than December 31. 1994: and
(iifl the second food seurit conference would be held no later thtn December 31. 1096.
3.08         With regard to objective "(b)' in para 3.07 above, the project's main aim is to
work through the Centro de Formacao Agrario (CFA) - one of the highest quality vocational
training instttions in the country - to develop and incorporate training modules on food
security related topics in the range of courses which CFA Maputo and its provincial affiliates
offer either routinely or under special contract to line ministries or donor agencies. Although
nominally supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture, CFA is a relatively autonomous
institution which offers courses in a number of areas including e.g., decentralization policy
and its implementation, integrated rural development, cooperation with NGOs, skllls training
for selected microenterprises, agricultural extension and proje. and program planning.
Course durations vary substanidally in length, ranging from week-long seminars to courses of
up to six months. Participants in the courses (generally around 20-25 per course) are drawn
from a variety of backgrounds, including central level sectoral ministries, provincial and
district level personnel, public sector field workers and NGO staff. Over the next 4-5 years,
CFA will implement a substantial program of training commissioned by INDER and by
UNDP which will draw about 400 participants per year to its centers.
3.09         By supporting development of food security-related training modules and
training CFA trainers in their use as part of the curricula for other courses, the present project
will help ensure that all CFA trainees develop a better understanding of food security issues in
Mozambique and acquire some of the analytic and other skills necessary to start addressing
them. This approach should prove to be far more cost-effective than organizing separate food



- 19 -
security courses which would once again take time away from participants' regular duties and
Involve duplication of travel or other fixed expenditures. The broad areas in which taning
modules will be developed include: food security concepts, indicators of food insecurity,
methods fr Identifying vulnerable groups, food marketing and production issues, relief food
dstribution, targeting employment opportunities to vulnerable groups, the role of NGOs etc.
Trainn modules will include sugesdons for use of paricipatory practcal exercises in the
teaching of the topics, using Mozambican cases/examples wherever feasible. Project support
for development and use of the food security training modules will be provided in the form of
materials, translation, pre-testing and production costs, short-tem local and foreign technical
assistance, and bibliographic acquisitions. In addinon, about three short-term fllowships (8-
10 weeks each) will be provided for CFA trainers in years 2 and three of the project. To
help ensure smooth implementation of the food security training, CFA would designate one of
its trainers as coordinator for the activity. In addition a contract would be drawn up between
CNP and CPA which woud set out specific targets and dates for the completion of agreed
activities. During newotiadons assurances were obtained that an initial set of at least six food
aecufty  tg modules would be coivin!f.ed by June 30, 1994 and that training of central
and provincial CFA trainers in their use would be completed not later than December 31,
99.
3.10         In addition to support for the awareness-creation workshops/conferences and
CFA training, the project would include support for introduction of course-work related to
food security and nutrition at the Health Sciences Instte in Maputo. The course, which
would be entirely parallel-financed by Save the Children, would run for 18 months, and
would aim at strengthening a cadre of health personnel (mainly nurses and medium level
technicians) posted to provincial health offices as nutrition and food security officers,
frequendy without any speciized training. From their positions at the province level, these
personnel are responsible for overseeing the range of nutrition activities implemented through
the health system and seek to improve coordination between health and other sectors in
furthering broader food security initiatives. Inputs to be fimded through the project include
short-term technical assistance to assist with curriculum design and traiAng of trainers, funds
for teaching materials and library books and student per diems during field research.
3.11          r     e  Food Security Training (US$2.2 million). The main focus of
this component would be on strengthening the Faculty of Agriculture at the university, within
the umbrella of an existing cooperative linkage - or twinning arrangement - between the
Faculty and a consortium of overseas institutions (mainly universites) with wide experience in
teaching and research relating to smallholder agriculture and food security. Project support
would be directed to assisting the faculty, which includes about 15 full-time faculty positions,
about 40 assistants and a student body of about 300, in three interlinked areas: (a) revising the
curriculum to introduce food security-related content into the existing academic program, with
course content and student results subject to external examination; (b) developing a core or
"nucleus' of faculty members and assistants (four of each) specialized in teaching the revised
curriculum; (c) substantially strengthening university research focused on family farming in
Mozambique through, i=  aU, establishment of a data bank on relevant research,
development of a research aganda, selection of methodologies, and beginning investigation of
priority topics. The project would finance: a series of visits (ong- and short-term) from staff
and faculty of the cooperating overseas institutions, to act as visiting professors as well as
assist in furthering plans for each of the three objectives; master's level training abroad for
the four faculty members intended to form the food security 'nucleus"; and provision of
computer equipment, bibligraphic materials, production of in-house teaching materials and



.20-
vehicles and per diem co associted with rWgular supevision of student resach activities.
9Dutl  wadSgm  aobtained that a deta   research W Wl for poect-
nanced resah would be submitted to the Bank for review, conmen and aproval no later
fl. W.fWfRJWiJI
IV. PROJECT COSI-S AND FINANCING
A. Pr         Costs
4.01         'Ibe total cost of the project is estmated at US$8.2 million equivalent, excluding
local taxes and duties on goods amd services. IThese taxes and duties are estimated at abou Mt
1.6 bilion and wil be covered from budgetary sources. The foreign exchange component of the
project Is estmated at US$6.1 mliUon or about 75 percent of total project cost. Detailed costs
are presented in Annex 5 and aresumnized in Tables IV.1 and IV.2 below.
TABLE IV. 1: Piect Cv
(US$ Milions)Jj
Total
% Base
loa       Forei     Iaw    EL   CM
A. COORDINATION AND
POLICY DEVELOPMENT           0.5          2.3     2.8   83.2  39.3
B. AWARENESS/SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT                   1.1         1.0     2.1   49.8  30.0
C. PRE-SERVICE TRAINING           0.2         2.0      2.2   91.0  30.7
TotalBASEQCOSTS                   1I          la 2.   27             lo
Physical Contingencies         0.1         0.4      0.5   77.1   6.4
Price Contingencies            0.2         0.4      0.6   70.8   8.5
Total PROJECT  COSTS              2                                11
I/ Numbers may not add up exactly due to rounding.



-21 -
Table IV.2:   s Su           summaryrv Account
(US$ Millions)1/
x
Total
X    Base
kEai        Foreign    iTtal    f.L   129
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.  Foreign ConsuLtant            0.1            1.6       1.7     95.0   23.9
2. Local Consultants              0.             Li.       OA      au.      LA
Subtotal                             0.4            1.7       2.1    80.4   29.7
B. FELLOWSHIPS
1. Long-term                      0.0            0.5       0.5    95.0    7.8
2. Short-term                     Q.O            Li        l.a     N        1.6
Subtotal                             0.0            0.6       0.6    95.0    9.4
C. TRAINING
1.  Local                         0.8            0.4       1.2    30.0   18.1
2. Study Tous                     0.0            0.1       0.1     36.7    1.1
3. University                     Q.1            1.        .AI     95.    iL
Subtotal                             0.9            1.5       2.4     61.3   34.6
D. SALARIES/PER DIEN                 0.1            0.0       0.1      8.3    1.9
E. STUDIES                           0.0            0.4       0.4    95.0    6.2
F. RESEARCH FUNDS                    0.1            0.0       0.1     60.0    0.7
S. VEHICLES                          0.0            0.2       0.2     95.0    2.5
H. EGUIP./NATERIALS/SUPPLtES         Li                       L.      J8.    10.4
TOTAL INVESTNENT COSTS                   1.6            5.0               z ?    9
31. RECURRENT COS
A. OPERATION & MAINTENANCE           0.1            0.2       0.3    75.5    4.3
B. SUPPLIES AND NATERIALS            0.1            0.1       0.2    38.0    0.2
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                    0.2            0.3       0.5    66.?    4.5
TOTAL ASELINE COSTS                      I.            Li         Z       7J
Physical Contingencies               0.1            0.4       KI        .1    6.4
Price Continwencies                  0.             Li        QL      ZQL     LI
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      La             L 6.                .J  114.9
1/ Numbers my not add up exactly due to rounding.
4.02            Basis of Cost Estimates. The project's base costs are In May 1992 prices. lhey
were calculated in US$, except for salaries, which were calaclated In Medcais and then converted
to US$ at the prevailing exchange rate of MT 2000/US$1. Purchasing power parity exchange
rates were used for the ped from May 1992 until project completion. Fun mgoies
mategials   uipmn and vehicle costs are based on Information supplied by the CNP, which was
reviewed by the Bank appraisa team and found to be satisfactory. Techical aiance Ed
fligufs  costs have been estimated on the basis of re -.  prices for comparable activities. Ihe
staffmonth costs of specialists include housing, relocation costs, salaries, subsistence, office
services, fees, overheads and recru ent costs. Costs for per diems. workshops and travel are
based on standard Government allowances and mission estimates. lraIang osQ  for overseas
Master's degrees are calculated on a three year basis since many institutbons do not recognize the
local degree and candidates will be required to do an extra year of course work.
4.03            Conungeac  Allowanm. Project costs include contigency allowances for
unforeseen physical dditions (US$0.S million or 6.4 pecent of base costs), equal to 10 percent



- 22 -
of the estimated costs of furniture, equipment, vehicles, supplies and materials. No physical
contingencies have been provided for local staff salaries, training, fellowships, and funds. Price
contingencies between appraisal (May 1992) and the end of project implementation are estimated
at US$0.6 million equivalent, or 8.5 percent of base costs plus physical contingencies. Total
contingencies represent 13.2 percent of the base cost. Annual rates of price increases based on
projections prepared for the Policy Framework Paper have been applied to both local and foreign
costs at the rates shown in Table IV.3 below.
Table IV.3: Price Contingencies by Government Fiscal Year
1993     1DA      1995     1996      1227
Local                  14.0      10.0     10.0     10.0      10.0
Foreign                 3.9      3.9       3.8      3.8       3.8
4.04         Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component was estimated
as follows: (a) equipment operation and maintenance - 60 percent; (b) foreign technical assistance,
fellowships, overseas training, s!udies, vehicles, equipment, materials, supplies and vehicle
operation and maintenance - 95 percent; (c) local training - 30 percent; (d) local technical
assistance, and salaries/per diem - 20 percent. These percentages have been determined by
assuming that all equipment, materials and supplies would be imported, and that a substmtial part
of operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment would require imporing spare parts.
Including contingencies, the resulting foreign exchange component is estimated at US$6.1 million,
or about 75 percent of total costs.
4.05         Incremental Recu 'nt Costs. Given the emphasis of the proposed project on
policy development, institutional capacity strengthening, training and awareness-cation UaI
cremental recurrent costs during the project's implementation period would be relatively small.
The main incremental recurrent cost items include: operation and maitenance costs for project-
provided equipment (maily computers) and vehicles; and costs of office supplies and materials.
For the four years of project Implementation these costs amount to about US$370,000 or about 3
percent of total project costs. As no new staff positions will be created under the project -- the
PAU, UEM Faculty of Agriculture and MOH posts will all be created through reallocation of
existing positions - no new salary costs are anticipated. In 1992 prices, ps-prject aal
incremental recurrent costs generated directly by the project are expected to amount to
approximaty US$22,000 for the PAU and about US$88,000 for UEM. The CPA and MOH
will not need to budget for incremental recurrent costs in the post-project period given the nature
of the project activities foreseen for these two institutions.
B. Proect Find
4.06         Of the total project costs of US$8.2 million, the Government of Mozambique
would finance US$0.4 million (5 percent), FAO would finance US$1.0 million (12 percent), Save
the Children would finance US$0.5 million (6 percent), and US$6.3 million would be provided by
the proposed IDA credit. IDA would finance the remaining 78 percent of total project costs,
covering 78 percent of the total foreign exchange requirement and 80 percent of local costs. Of



-23 -
the remaining foreign exchange, FAO would finance 13.4 percent and Save the Children would
finance 3.7 percent, while 2.2 percent and 10.9 percent of the remainder of the local costs would
be financed by FAO and Save the Children respectively. Project financing arrangements are
given in Table IV.4.
Table IV.4: Financin Plan
(US$ Millions equivalent) A/
Save
the
IPA                 Lag       Chi ldn       TOTAL
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A.  CONSULTANT SERVICES                     1.2        --         1.0       --            2.2
S.   FELLOUSHIPS                            0.8        v-                    --           0.8
C.   TRAINING                               2.6        --          -       0.3            2.9
D.   SALARIES/PER DIENS                     0.2       0.Ow/       --        --            0.2
E.   STUDIES                                0.5        --          -        --            0.5
F.  RESEARCH FUNDS                          0.1        *-         --        **            0.1
0.   VEHICLES                               0.2                   --        *-            0.2
H.  EQUIPNENT/MATERIALS/SUPPLIES            0.7        --                  0.2            0.9
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A.   OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE              --       0.2                                 0.2
B.   SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS                  --       0.2         --        --            0.2
Total PROJECT Co0rv                           6.3       0.4i       1i 08
M/  Includes price and physical contingencies.
w/ CON to pay salary costs estimated at US$44,000, ihich rounds to 0.



-24 -
C.
4.07                              . The procurement arrangements for the project are oudined
below in Table IV.5 and described in detail in the following paragraphs.
Tabte IV.5: Procuremet Arirranomets it
(US$ Nillion)
-Procurement Method---------
Project Element                          LCB           Locat         Other             Not Sankk/       Total
Shopping                        Financed        Cost
I. Inrestment Costs
A. Technical Assistance                                    -              1.2            1.0            2.2
( -3)           X (-3           (1.2)          C-)             (1.2)
B. Fellowships                            *                              0.8           C   )            0.8
C - )           (-3 )           (0.8)          (-              (0.8)
C. Training                                                              2.6            0.3             2.9
( -3)           ( - )           (2.6)          e-)             (2.6)
D. Salaries/Per Diems                                                    0.2           0.0SL            0.2
(C- )            C - )          (0.2)          (-              (0.2)
E. Studies                                -                              0.5             _              0.5
(.- )           (3 ' )(0.5)                    (-)             (0.5)
F. Research Funds                                          -             0.1             -              0.1
( -3)           ( - )           (0.1)          C-)             (0.1)
0. Vehicles                              0.2               -              -              -              0.2
(0.2)           (-)             C-)            C-)             (0.2)
U. Equipment, Materials,
Supplies and Furniture                0.4             0.2              0.1wy         0.2             0.9
(0.4)           (0.2)           (0.1)          C - )           (0.7)
It. Recurrent Costs
A. Operatfon and Waintenance              -                -              -             0.2             0.2
e.)             (.)             (-)            (.)             (.)
B. Supplies and materials                 -                                      .      0.2             0.2
TOTAL                                    0.7             0.2             5.4            1.9             8.2
(0.7)           (0.2)           (5.4)            - )           (6.3)
I    Figures in parentheses are the respective aowints to be finfnced under the IDA credit.
W    FAD and Sa e the Children procurement using their own procurement methods and GO  expenditures an salaries
and operation and maintenance costs.
c    O   f inancing of salary costs of USS44,000, which roumds to 0.
i~ Procurement of textbooks and learning materials uWder direct contracting.
4.08                     Given the small amounts of vehicles, equipment, mateials, supplies and fi ture
involved in the project - and taking into account that grouping of these items into large enough packages
will be difficult as a result of the different training institutis and implementation schedules involved -



- 25 -
use of ICB procedures is not envisaged. Rather, items would be grouped to tie etnt possible into bid
packages of US$50,000 or more and procured usinlg LCB procedures, which are acceptable to IDA.
Equipment, furniture, materials and supplies items which camnot be grouped into bid packages of
US$50,000 may be procured using local shopping procedures, subject to an aggrge limt of
US$200,000. During implementation reference will be made to price lists available from the UN agency
LAPSO to ensure that prices being obtained locally are competitive. In instances where local prices are
unreasonably high, consideration will be given to ordering the necessary items from IAPSO. Given their
highly specialized naure and the limited sources of supply, textbooks and learning materials for UEM
may be procured under direct contracting up to a maximum of US$70,000.
4.09          Consultants' services will be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines. Other items,
including ineremental recurrent cost items, travel/per diem, studies, salary costs, workshops/taining
would be approved through regular Government procedures.
4.10          Contra. Terms of reference, curricula vitae and draft conacts for consultamts
would be reviewed by IDA prior to appointment of consultants. Similarly, terms of reference for the
studies and budgets for implementation would be reviewed by IDA prior to commencing expenditures for
these activities. Tender documents for goods and vehicles to be procured under LCB procedures would
lso be subject to prior review by IDA. All other goods purchases would be subject to post-award review
by IDA.
D.  bursements
4.11          Disbur       . The proposed project would be implemented over a period of about four
years (between about July 1993 and August 1997). Disbursements would be completed by Febmuary 28,
1998, six months after project completion (Annex 6). The credit proceeds would be disbursed on the
basis of the table shown below. All disbursements from the IDA credit would be fully docmented
except for training/workshops, equipment, and vehicle operadng costs and other items under US$20,000
for which disbursements would be made against certified statements of expendiures (SO1E). Sup ting
documentation would be requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors.
Table IV.6: ALLOCATION AN DIBURSE!ENT OF IDA CREDIT
(SD0)
Credit               Percentage of Expenditure
Disbursement Categorv                         Altocation           to be Financed
1.    ConsuLtants' ServIces, fellowships,      1,660,000              100X
per diems, studies wnd audits
2.    Training
(a) UEN                                 1,000,000              tOOX
and
(b) All other training                    860,000              ff 
3.    Vehicles, equipment                        580,000              100X of foreign expenditure
and materials, supplies                                        95f of local xpenditure
4.    Unallocated                                500,000
TOTAL                                    4.600.00



- 26 -
F. Account; and Audit
4.12         All disbursenents from th, IDA credit account would be flly documented
except expenditures for (a) contracts, purchae orders for goods and services or overseas
training program valued at less that US$20,000 equivalent, (b) local training programs, and,
(c) salaries and operating costs for which disbursements would be made against certified
satements of expenditure (SOE). Documentation would be retaned by CNP for reiew by
Bank suptrvision missions and project auditors.
4.13         Scal Account. To facilitate timely project implemention, the
Government would establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA, a Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. IDA would make an initial
deposit, equivalent to about US$0.6 million. This amount is expeced to cover about four
months of eligible payments. The Special Account would be replenished as appropriate when
the undisbursed balance of the account falls below an amount equal to 50 percent or less of
the initial deposit to the Special Account. Withdrawal applications would be submitted
monthly regardless of the volume of business handled by the Special Account and would be
supported by full documentation except for items eligible for disbursement on the basis of
certified SOEs.
4.14          &jt.  Until recently, the Government's performance in auditing project
accounts in practically all IDA projects was not generally satisfactory, with severe delays
encountered in auditing operations approved in the late 198Qs. However, these delays in
carrying out audits have now largely been overcome as the result of a coordinated country
effort to elinate the bacldog of all IDA project audits in Mozambique. Recent audi reports
received for the Health and Nutrition Project (which includes a Food Security component) and
Education projects coverng activities at UEM have been satisfactory. During nations
assurances were obtained f_om Governent that all pject and seial accounts will
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that all audite go=t toget  with
the auditors' repott. will be submitted to IDA not later than nine months after the end of each
90vernmnent fiscal yer. In auditing project accounts, the auditors will provide a separate
opinion on SOEs and on the procedures and intern  controls involved in their preparation.
Project special accounts will also be audited. As part of UEM's efforts to improve
accountability, UEM will carry out audits, in accordance with IDA criteia, for its total
program for inclusion in its anmnal report. Funds for retention of satisfactory private auditors
have been included in project costs and draft terms of reference for the auditors will be
discussed and agreed at credit negotiations.
V. PROJECr MANAGEMEN AND EMPIEATION
A. Poec ManaMA
5.01         Overall responsibility for the project would rest with CNP. Ihe PAU, which
has been established within CNP as part of the project would play the lead role in
coordinating implementation of the project. The head of PAU, reporting directly to the
National Director of Planning, would be designated project director, with responsibility for
overseeing project progress and resolving substantive issues. S/he will chair an advisory
committee composed of representatives from agencies/institutions concened with food



-27 -
security which would meet on a quarterly basis to discuss relevant issues and resolve any
policy issues which may arise. In addition, the PAU would be the main conduit through
which other agencies involved with the project - principally CFA, UEM Faculty of
Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, Nutrition Unit - would liaise with central
Government agencies (e.g., the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Mozambique) and the
World Bank. To ensure that PAU does not become a botleneck in this regard, a full-tme
project administrative officer would be appointed within PAU to attend to all administrative
matters, including mainte-^nce of project accounts and overseeing procurement. Slcio
and apointment of the project administrative officer would be a condidon of credit
effetieness.
5.02         Day-to-day responsibility for implementation of the CPA in-service training
sub-component, the UEM sub-component and the health personnel traiinig component of the
MOH Nutrition Unit would be delegated to the respective agencies concened and appropriate
contractual arrangements would be put in place. In this regard,     inlementaton
ageements between (a) CNP and CFA, and (b) CNP and UEM were presented to IDA during
credit negotiations. Signing of the final implementation agreements. taking int accout IDA
comments, is a condidon of credit effectiveness. Both CFA and UEM have designated
coordinators for their respective components, who would ensure that project activities move
forward in a timely manner. Both institutions have been previously involved with Bank
projects and thus have experience with Bank procedures. It should be noted that the nuition
worker training sub-component is fully parallel-financed by Save the Children Fund, which
will stipulate its own requirements with respect to administrative arrangements.
B. Imnlementation
5.03         friedt Iglementtion Schedule. Implementation is expected to take about
four years, starting in July 1993. The project would be completed by August 31, 1997 and
would be closed by February 28, 1998 (see Annex 7).
5.04         Status of Project Ptrearation. The project was prepared by an
interministerial group, led by the Food Security Department of the Ministry of Commerce and
mvolving representatives of UEM, health, agriculture, CPA and CNP. Occasional consultant
support was provided to the group, using funds earmarked for new project preparation
contained in the ongoing Health and Nutrition Project (credit 1989-MOZ). Detailed proposals
for each project component, showing dates by which key actions should be undertaken, were
prepared by the group. These schedules and key monitorable indicators were reviewed during
appraisal, and were revisited and agreed during technical discussions at credit negotiations.
5.05         In addition to the project proposals and implementation schedules, terms of
reference have been prepared for long-term consultants (Annex 3a and 3b). Short lists of
consultants for each of the long term positions would be prepared between credit negotiations
and effectiveness. To facilitate prompt recruitment of necessary consultants once final
selection has been made, standard contracts for technical assistance (both individual and
institutional) have been prepared and agreed with the Ministry of Finance. It should also be
noted that the long-term advisor for PAU (financed by FAO) has already been recruited and
has begun work. With regard to training, detailed plans have been developed for the project's
CFA and UEM components. To prepare for the CFA component, the CFA component
coordinator will undertake a short term overseas food security training course in the period



- 28 -
between credit negotiations and credit effectiveness, using funds from the ongoing Health and
Nutrition Project. It has also been agreed that funds from the Health and Nutrition Project
could be used to purchase essential m_mum office furniture and equipment for the PAU,
which was formally established prior to credit negotiations.
5.06         PJIme u jnp1m .ntaon Review. PAU would be responsible for the
preparation of progress reports on project activities on a six-monthly basis. These semi-
annual reports would be prepared based on inputs from other ministries and institudons
associated with the project as well as on PAU's own assessment of the activities for which it
would have direct responsibility. The reports would be submitted to the Bank by the PAU and
discussed during project supervision, a proposed schedule for which is presented in Annex 8.
In addition to regular semi-annual reviews, it is planned that one more detailed mid-term
review would be undertaken jointly by Government and IIDA to monitor progress and
introduce any mid-course corrections. During ngoiatios assurces were otie from
the Government that it would conduct jointly with IDA a Droject jmpleentation review no
later than July 31. 1995. in order to: (a) monitor proress in achieving program/project
objectives: do) identify implementation issues and proposed solutions: (c) promote exchange of
ideas among staff involved in programlproject implementation: and (d) update
=&m/prj9ect timetables, cost estmesad  buge rMequirements. Finally, withiin six
months of the project's completion date, CNP (PAU) would prepare a project completion
report for submission to IDA.
5.07         Oualtative Imagt/MBfdh    Aesesment. To the extent that this project
is focused largely on training and awareness-creation, it is thought that monitoring of
objectively-determinable indicators may not be sufficient to analyze its impact. Therefore, it
is proposed that qualitative interviewing techniques (similar to those used in beneficiary
assessments) would be used to determine: (a) what new understanding of food security issues
has been gained by policy-makers and other personnel receiving training under the project;
and (b) what concrete new policies or activities have been commenced as a result of this
learning. The qualitative assessment will be done in two phases. The first phase, lastng two
years, will be divided in two parts. Part I of the first phase will focus on the learning
provoked by the project among the policy-makers (15-20).  terviewing will be conducted at
three points: a) during the first three months to appreciate the pre-existing level of awareness
of food security issues among these officials; b) after 9-12 months of project duration, to
review progress with the transmission of information on food security; and c) after 18-21
months, to assess with greater exactitude the strengths and weaknesses of the policy-oriented
communication of the Food Security Policy Unit. Part I, on the impact of the training
courses for the mid-level functionaries (30-40), wiUl also be done at three points in time: a) at
the outset of the project, as in Part I; b) during the first month after the course, to ascertain
the value of the course material to the trainees - what they learned that was new, what they
did not understand, what they thought self-evident, etc. and c) 6-9 months after the course to
learn what these mid-level officials are doing differenty as a result of what they learned from
the course. Assuming that there will be a cerain overlap in the time periods for the
interviews of parts I and H (especially for the first interviews), it is estimated that total time
for both parts will be six months over the first two years of the project; this time could be
spread out over a larger number of months with interviewing done on a part-time basis.
5.08         The design of the secord phase will come at the end of the second year and
will depend on the utility of the first phase. While it may well be decided to continue the
interviewing of the two groups of government officials, the nature and content of the



-29 -
inrviews may well undergo change. Two additional aspects of the project may also be
assessed during this second phase, the impact of the training and resulting policy changes on
communities, including household behavior, and, secondly, the effect of the food security
modules Introduced in the regular curricula of agriculture, health, and other training on the
disposition and eventual activities of students. It is understood that both of these latter
additions are longer-term impacts of this project, the major effect of which will only be felt
years after project completion. The decision to make in Phase U is whether to begin assessing
these factors during the last two years, as a first step to later, more extensive assessment
during subsequent food security project activity. Results of the first phase of the evaluation
will be considered during the mid-term project review discussed above. Funds for this
evaluation have been included in project costs.
5.09         Lessons Led. Design of this project, especially its management and
implementation arrangements, has benefited from the experience of past projects in
Mozambique, discussed systematically at two country implementation reviews held in Maputo
in February 1991 and October 1992. These CIRs brought up several generic issues (for
which generic solutions are being sought) in the areas of project management arrangements,
procurement, financial management, accounting and audits, and public sector pay and
employment issues. Annex 9 discusses these issues in some detail and, where necessary,
explains how they relate to the design of the present project. Another key issue considered in
designing the present project was the ability of project institutions to retain the services of
staff returning from long-term fellowships given the strong competition in Mozambique for
skflled manpower. To minimize this problem, every effort was made to reduce the number of
long-term fellowships to the barest minimum required. Of the six long-tem fellowships (for
Master's degrees) finally included, four would be at the university which needs at least
Master's level graduates to teach courses related to smallholder production and which has a
good likelihood of retaining staff given that university professors have somewhat better
benefits and salaries than other government employees and are free to take on consultancy
assignments on a part-time basis to augment their incomes. The remaining two long-term
fellowships would be allocated for senior FSPU staff, who require the advanced skills if they
are to carry out their functions (especially policy development and analysis) satisfactorily.
While there remains some risk that these staff could choose to resign from the civil service
upon completion of the fellowships, this risk is substantially reduced by: (a) the civil service
reform package being introduced by Government with support from the IDA Capacity
Bullding Project (approved by the Board in November 1992) which will provide signiflcant
incentive payments to civil servants with advanced qualifications; and (b) the selection of
fellows with at least ten years of government service, who would be reluctant to resign and
forego accumulated benefits. It was not thought advisable to introduce a bonding arrangement
as these have not proven successful in many other countries where they have been tried.
5.10         In addition, in designing the present project, special attention was paid to the
experience of the Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) project, given some common
features between that project and the present one. These common features include:
establishment of a new unit within CNP concerned with macro and micro policy and program
review; substantial emphasis on technical assistance and training; and involvement of
implementing agencies outside CNP for selected aspects of the project. Some of the key
implementation difficulties faced by the SDA Project concern: (i) the serious delays that were
encountered after credit effectiveness in prompt establishment of the unit - including
recruitment of both Mozambican professional personnel and technical assistance; (H) the
significant administrave problems in the early phases of the project due to delays in



-30-
appointing necessary administrative personnel; (iii) the difficulties in institutionalizing the unit
due in part to its status as an advisory arm of the National Director of Planning rather than as
a line unit/department and in part to the absence of full-time Mozambican professional staff;
Civ) the limited capacity within the CNP SDA Unit to identify/solicit and appraise sub-project
proposals from a range of line ministries, NGOs and other agencies as required under the
SDA Project's development fund component; and (v) the centralization of all administrative
procedures within the CNP SDA Unit, resulting in frustration among non-CNP
implementation igencies over delays in procurement and necessary approvals.
5.11         Several of the features of the proposed Food Security Capacity Building
Project have been designed to avoid the above-described problems. First, legal establishment
of the PAU as a line unit on par with other CNP departments, appointment to it of three
Mozambican technical staff and a project administrator was required prior to credit
negotiations or credit effectiveness. Second, through the parallel-financing arrangement with
FAO, one key long-term advisor has already been put in place and steps (described in para
5.05) to expedite recruitment of remaining consultants have been agreed. Third, with the
exception of a small amount of research funds (JS$100,000) which PAU would have to
program and commission during project implementation, relatively detailed preparation has
already been undertaken of all activities to be carried out by PAU and other agencies involved
with the project. Finally, day-to-day implementation including preparation of procurement
documentation, drawing up of detailed plans etc. would be delegated to the agencies
concerned with the components - and it has been ascertained that each of these institutions
UEM, CFA and MOH have prior experience with Bank projects. In addition, it is expected
that some successful initiatives of the SDA Project would be adopted by the PAU as it moves
forward its work program - notably, effective use of the National Technical Commission for
Planning (NTCP)J/ in promoting intersectoral cooperation and providing policy inputs and
systematic collaboration with the CNP's National Directorate of Statstics to achieve scale
economies in data collection exercises.
VI. ERQJ  BENEITrS AND RISKM
6.01         Benefits. The principal benefit of the project will be greatly enhanced
national capacity to analyze the major causes of food insecurity in Mozambique and to design
and implement macro- and sectoral programs so as to maximize their potential for relieving
household food insecurity. In so doing, it should improve implementation of the food security
strategy, a crucial element of Mozambique's poverty alleviation, and by implication, overal
development, efforts. Establishment of a single institutional entity to coordinate key food
security information, policy and strategic functions will help maintain focus on food security
issues and foster greater coherence among sectoral actions; and, by training civil servants and
students at a number of levels to gain a better understanding of food security issues and their
relationship to national development objectives, the project should also help create sustained
commitment to food security, even in the event of senior personnel changes as a result of the
uncertain political situation - a necessary condition given the long-term nature of
Mozambique's food security problems. Finally, the establishment of a consolidated food
s/ A CNP advisory commision compnrising National Directors of Planning and Economy of all te
line agencies.



-31 -
security database within the PAU, should substantially improve the country's capacity to
foresee and prepare for emergency situations such as the recent drought.
6.02         Rlsha. The project's main risk is the possible dilution of the training and
capacity building objectives as a result of low motivation and professionalism in the civil
service - in turn stemming from low educational levels as well as a weak public sector
incentive structure. This broader issue, is being addressed by the Government with the
assistance of the Bank and other donors through analytic work, the Economic Reovery Credit
and an FY93 Capacity Building Project which  arliA seek to improve pay scales,
promotion structures etc. throughout the Mozambican civil service, Secondly, there are the
inevitable risks associated with any project which attempts to introduce "new" concepts to
policy-makers within a relatively fragile institutional environment. These are, however, being
minimized by designing considerable flexibility into the project to allow for 'course
corrections" during implementation, and in emphasizing the need for monitoring and
evaluation in each of the components. In addition, a mid-term review will be carried out to
assess the project's impact and determine if any major revisions to project design are
warranted.
VII. A5SANES AND RECOMEMAIONS
7.01         Prior to credit negotiations, the Government: formally established the PAU
and appointed three professional Mozambican staff to it (para 3.06); and (b) presented to IDA
draft implementation agreements between (a) CNP and CFA, and (b) CNP and UEM (para
5.02).
7.02         The following are conditions for effectiveness of the credit:
(a)    Submission to IDA of a detailed PAU workplan with monitorable targets
covering the period July 1993 to December 1994 (para 3.05);
(b)   Appointment of the project administrative officer (para 5.01); and
(c)    Signing of implementation agreements between (a) CNP and CFA, and (b)
CNP and UEM (para. 5.02).
7.03         During negotiations the following assurances were obtained from the
Government:
(a)   that detailed PAU annual workplans (for calendar years 1995, 1996 and 1997)
with monitorable targets would be submitted to IDA for roview and comment
no later than November 30 of the preceding year (para 3.05);
(b)   that two additional Mozambican professional staff would be appointed to the
PAU no later than December 31, 1994 (para 3.06);
(c)   that the PAU would convene an intersectoral working group for conference
planning no later than December 31, 1993 (para 3.07);



- 32 -
(d)   that the first food security conference would be held no later than December
31, 1994 (para 3.07);
(e)   that the second food security conference would be held no later than
December 31, 1996 (para 3.07);
(t)   that an initial set of at least six food security training modules would be
completed by June 30, 1994, and training of central and provincial CFA
trainers in their use would be completed not later than December 31, 1994
(para 3.9);
(g)   that a detailed protocol for project-financed research at UEM would be
submitted to the Bank for review, comment and approval no later than June
30, 1994 (para 3.11);
(h)   that all project and special accounts will be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and that all audited accounts, together with the auditors'
report, will be submitted to IDA not later than nine months after the end of
each Government fiscal year (para 4.15); and
(i)   that Government would conduct jointly with IDA a project implementation
review no later than July 31, 1995, in order to (a) monitor progress in
achieving program/project objectives; (b) identify 1mplementation issues and
proposed solutions; (c) promote exchange of ideas among staff involved in
program/project implementation; and (d) update program/project timetables,
cost estimates and budget requirements (para 5.06).
7.04         Subject to the above assurances, the project constitutes a suitable basis for an
IDA credit of SDR 4.6 million (US$6.3 million equivalent) to the Republic of Mozambique.



-33-
Annex I
Page 1 of 7
Mozambique
Food Security Capacity Building Project
Poverty Alleviation Unit
Bac kgmound
1.    Responsibility for developing and promoting household food security policies within
Mozambique lies presently with the Ministry of Commerce, specifically with the Food
Security Department (FSD). However, food security policy is, by its nature, multi-sectoral
and inter-disciplinary and, as a result of its position within the Ministry of Commerce, the
FSD has had difficulties in fulfilling its mandate. It has been too closely associated with the
Ministry of Commerce for it to have been regarded by other Ministries as a source of truly
independent policy formulation.
2.    Until recently, food security issues at a national level did not go much beyond the
need to import food. Given the national circumstances this was understandable. However, the
inevitable legacy of this is that there has been a poor understanding, at the higher levels of
Government, of the complexity of food security issues. Despite widespread lir-service to the
idea, there has been little effective coordination between the government institutions
responsible for ensuring food security; e.g. the Ministry of Commerce and DPCCN have been
preparing their estimates for annual import requirements independently of one another. This
situation has led to a widespread belief that food security issues could be more effectively
addressed at a national level if these functions were not located in a unit so closely associated
with any of the line ministries, i.e. towards more neutral administrative territory.
3.    To address the problems identified above, both the World bank and FAO have long
supported the creation of a poverty alleviation/food security unit and have offered to provide
support for it. The proposed World Bank Food Security Capacity Building Project will enable
the unit to become fully established. FAO will assist with the establishment of the unit by
transferring some of its resources (personnel, materials, etc. - which are at present in the
FSD) to the new unit once it is created.
Location of the Poverty Alleviation Unit
4.    The Poverty Alleviation Unit (PAU) will be established within CNP; improving
household food security throughout Mozambique is one of the country's most critical
objectives within the national rehabilitation program. The extreme vulnerability of millions of
people to serious undernutrition caused by deficient food production, inadequate transport and
markets, and pervasive impoverishment of the population is perhaps the most fundamental of
all the economic development problems confronting a post-war government. A strategy for
dealing with this monumental task must be well-conceived, well-coordinated and based upon
solid analysis of the situations in many differing parts of the country. The planning ministry,
already developing an improved ability to undertake field surveys (with support from UNDP)
and a capacity to pursue poverty-oriented development programs (supported by several



- 34 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
bilateral governments and the World Bank), is the most appropriate of all the possible
administrative locations for developing the capacity to better understand and confront serious
food insecurity. The location of the unit responsible is important from the perspective of joint
management of the poverty and food insecurity initiatives.
S.    The overall objective of the PAU will be to incorporate poverty reduction and
household food security as an explicit concern into policy design and to provide a service in
the identification, preparation and monitoring of programs and projects, primarily to the other
departmnents within the CNP (Investment and Development and Economic Analysis) and also
to other Ministries (national sectoral planning departments, CPP and sectoral planning units at
the provincial level) through the Conselho Tecnico do Plano. Its role will be to ensure that
Government planning efforts and programs are appropriately targeted on the major causative
factors of poverty and household food insecurity, in the highest priority areas of the country.
In this vein, the PAU will: a) advise on planning practice in CNP; b) build institutional
capacity for decentralized planning process; c) provide support for training at the national,
provincial and sectoral levels, and; c) assess and monitor the poverty and food security impact
of projects. The principal areas of concentration for the PAU will be: food security at the
household level and systemic marketing issues; safety nets for poverty alleviation; initadves
and wnvesments, both public and private, and; macroeconomic and social policy.
unctions of the Poverty Alleviation Unit
6.    The PAU will be situated in the National Planning Directorate of the National
Planning Commission with the Director of the Unit reporting directly to the National Director
of Planning. Policy analysis will be the prime function of the unit. The integrated data base
and research functions will provide the unit with a solid foundation upon which to evaluate
existing policies and propose policy initiatives (see diagram 1). Its location within CNP,
which approves the expenditure and investment plans for all Government ministries and
agencies, will also mean that the unit is well placed to review policy and suggest amendments
and adjustments when needed to improve the positive impact on poverty and food security.
The brief of the unit, he-.:ever, will lie beyond that of working quietly in the background. At
this stage, there is an urgent requirement to raise the profile of poverty reduction and food
security as an issue within the collective consciousness of senior decision-makers. For this
reason the PAU, during the early years of the project will actively promote poverty alleviation
and food security issues at :his level. This will be a major objective of the
workshops/seminars and conferences component of the project.
7.    The unit will present various options for change in policy and strategy intended to
lead to improvements in national food security, with particular emphasis on ensuring adequate
access to food by the more vulnerable groups of the population. In particular, the unit will: a)
monitor the social impact of the present strategy and policies (including public investment); b)
identify and articulate er-erging policy issues and spearhead action-oriented tesearch; c)
analyze existing information and identify and specify issues requiting detailed study, and; d)
advise on social and economic policy ii. CNP.
8.     )evelopment of a poverty and food security data base. The PAU will develop a
unified information system and data base on poverty and will assimilate the food supply and
nutrition surveillance information already being collected by Ministries and other
organizations within Mozambique. The collation, integration, analysis and interpretation of



- 35 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 7
this data will be used as a basis to: a) monitor the food security situation, b) identify and
develop short- and medium-term actions to mitigae adverse trends, and c) monitor long term
trends In food security.
Diagram 1.
Research                                           PAU Dat
Coordination                                          Base
9.    The PAU will utilize data being collected by a number of other entities In a relational
data base composed of a number of linked data sets. These will be combined into a variety of
reports which, taken together, will represent the best available reflection of the state of food
security in major geographic regions and urban centers of the country. The three principal
sources of data will be the information systems already established within the Ministries of
Agriculture, Health and Commerce. Other sources of data will be DPCCN. AGRICOM,
GOAM, GAPVU and the NGOs. Data sources used will include demographic data, national
food balance sheets (based on food needs assessment methodology, i.e. annual crop. livestock
and fish production, changes in carry over stocks and net imports), famine early warning
data, meteorological data, food price and other market data, food transport and haulage data,
CPI data, household survey data, nutrition surveillance indicators, morbidity, mortality and
related health data, food aid levels, various estimates of numbers of peoples requiring feeding
on a monthly or quarterly basis and a number of poverty indicators, especially employment,
income, household expenditures on food, sources of income, etc.
10.   The staff of the PAU will need to maintain close and frequent contact with the many
institutions which collect, analyze and publish the many streams of data to be included in the
food security data base. The role of the CIP will be particularly important. It is a committee
consisting of the National Directors of Economy from key central and line ministries. It will
be asked to support the establishment of the food security data base by making available
information their respective ministries already collect. It will also be important, early in the
project, to create an ad hoc committee consisting of the heads of the units which collect data
useful for poverty and food security analysis as a forum to discuss technical issues related to,
for example, improved timing and quality of the data and the results of analysis of various
combinations and permutati-Ons of the data.



-36-
Annex 1
Page 4 of 7
11.   Research XgKdSn. The unit will seek to play a leading role in the development of
a national poverty alleviation and food security research agenda, related to actual research
needs 'Identified during its review and monitoring of the national food security situation and
the food security problems identified in various rural, urban and peri-urban regions and sub-
regions of the country. It will promote, monitor and assess research in poverty and food
security and in areas of relevance to the understanding of food security to be carried out by
other organizations. It will undertake and commission studies and analyses in areas of
emerging food security policy interest. The unit will focus first and foremost on improving
understanding of the major causes - and combinations of causes - of severe food insecurity
and pauperization in rural and urban areas. lThe research will compliment the integrated data
base and will, in conjunction with the information in the data base, enable a fuller evaluation
of the food security impact of existing and proposed policies. Properly done, the research will
help inject further analytical rigor into the discussion and debate vwhich often surround
emerging policy issues.
12.   Research will only rarely be undertaken directly by the professional staff of the unwt,
although a individual professional may, on occasion, participate in paicular resarch efforts.
Rather, the nomal procedure will be to commission research to be undertaken by individual
consultants, faculty and grduate students at Eduardo Mondlane University and by outside
consultng finns and univrsities. To the greatest extent possible, ways will be sought to involve
the prvate sector and NGOs as active participants in the reseah Long-term technical assistance
provided the unit by IDA and FAO will play active, but advisory, roles in establishing the research
agenda and mangng research underway. Over the project lifetime, however, the roles of these
advisers will diminish as Mozambican professional staffgain experience.
13.   As with the data base element descibed above, an ad hoc research committee will be
established to act as a clearing house for the exchange of infimation about relevant research
being camed out within the county. All institutions cnying out such information should be
represented on the research committee, e.g., the National directorate of Statistics, the University,
vaious line ministies, other gvenmt organizations plus pnvate, NGO and donor organiations
involved in relevant work. The commiteee, at a minmum, will help prevent duplication of resarch
efforts. It will serve to develop an on-going and healthy professional debate about national resarch
priorities leading to the establishment of guidelines for a national research agenda and will scree
and reommend resear  proposal which promote that agenda.
14.   Inter-sectoral Coordination. The PAU will make major contributions in defining the
roles and responsibilities of government institutions, private organizations and international
donors in the production, provision, marketing, distribution and consumer access to food. In
this regard, the PAU will promote food security and poverty alleviation as important
objectives of development and related social and economic investing. It will review
Ministerial investment plans in order to help assess the potential impact of these investment
plans on the poverty and food security status of vulnerable groups within the country. Inter-
ministerial cooperation will be strongly promoted as will improved coordination regarding
investment priorities and plans, the sharing of data, information, research findings, studies
and research results and information developed from monitoring and evaluation of the success
and/or failures of development programs and any other information relating to significant
changes in the poverty and food security status of vulnerable communities - rural and urban -
throughout Mozambique.



-37 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 7
15.   Raising the level of knowledge and appreciation of poverty and food security issues
within Mozambique.
To this end a series of workshops and semnuars of high professional content will be
plamed and conducted aimed at increasing understanding of the extent and severity of food
insecurity in Mozambique, the causes, long-term trends, misconceptions, need for remedial actions,
project possibilities and costs and budget inplications. The target audiences are senior decision-
makems, Govenmt, university, private sector and NGO professionals involved in one or another
aspect of food security and donor representatives and outside researchers engaged in food security-
related work. The structure of these activities is hierarchical with workshops held regularly for
those engaged on a day-to-day basis on food security work. The output of the workshops feeds into
the seminars which are intended for a wider professionally-involved audience, including researchers
in food security from outside Mozambique. The focus is on studies and research - design,
implementation issues, analysis of results, sifting out the most important findings, and publication.
The most significant work coming out of the workshops and seminars will form the agenda for the
two full-scale confernces which will be attended by, and focused on, decision-makers who are not
nomally engaged in food security efforts. The proceedings of the conferences and some of the best
research papers and studies results will be published in Portuguese for a Moz.ambican audience and
in Engish for intemnational use.
16.   Four types of policy linkage are suggested for the unit:
* Direct personal contact between the Director of the unit and the National Director of Planning
and the Vice-Minister, CNP. The location of the unit in CNP is in part designed to facilitate
constant contact and communication to senior most officials im the Planning Ministry iLcluding
contact with the Office of the Prime Minister.
D  More intense utilization of the Conimao Tecnica do Plano (CTP), consitng of the National
Directors of EconomW in each Ministry and their equivalents in the pamsttls which deal with
food security. The Comissao would provide the unit with a forum to deal direcdy with senior
decision makers at policy planning and formulation levels. It is chaired by the National director
of Planning who would be able to present the concems of the FSPU directly to members of the
crP.
* Conducting a series of semnmars an food security issues for the Directors of Planning in the line
Ministries and other senior policy makers. Senior officials f*om the Provicial a iions
and parastls will also attend these semmnrs which will serve  bnng food secrity issues to
a wider audice and encourage wider appreciaion of and debat, on dtese issues.
* Publications: the PAU will publish a range of documents on poverty alleviation and food
security issues. Some will be of a general nature to bring these topics to a broad audience and
to promote public discussion. Others will be of a more specialized nature presenting the
results of work commissioned or supported by the PAU. Still others will be for the internal
use by government officials, e.g. planning guidance.



- 38 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
R=qurces required by the PAU.
17.   The unit will be small, consisting of five professional staff including the director. All
members wold cany out policy analysis and all will be expected to contribute to, and participate
in, the anual series of seminars sponsored by the unit. Although specialization will be required in
each of the positions, reflecting the training, expenence and interest of the individual as well as the
requirements of dte unit, there will also be overlap in skills and responsibilities enabling
cooperative endeavors and a sense of cohesiveness. The core skills required will be: a) agncultural
policy/pricing analysis, b) the econmics of markets/distribution systems, c)socio-economic skills
focused on labor markets, household expenditur patterns, etc., d) infonmation and communication
skifls.
18.   Lng-term advisers to the unit and short-term consultants will add skills in training,
communication, the use of computers in development, the nutritional dimensions of food
cons ton, tagqeted transfer programs for the absolutely poor, aspects of household, and urban
and rural community organization, and a number of other related areas.
19.   Speciaist knowledac and skills will be made available to the unit in severa VWa:
* Technical and Research commrittees which tap required knowledge and skills presently
available in Mozanbique in the forms of professionals already working withuin the govenment
the university or in NGOs.
* Seondments of selected staff fron other ministries or parastatals will be imnportant on an as-
needed basis for specialized sldlls needed for penods of time longer than, say, six moths. The
types of skDlls required might be in food production data, health and nutrition, and social
science.
*  Short-tenm consultancies will be used to provide a spcist input on particular tasks and
research prjects m aras such as vublerability assessments, use of couentpart local currencies
to amwliorate food insecuy, beficiary assessments, evaluation of food security impacts of
c policies and "rerf  desi  changes in on-going projects to enhance food
Trainipg:
20.   All professional staff will attend as early in the project as possible short-term training
programs focused specifically on the domain of poverty alleviation and food security. Such
courses, usually of 10-16 weeks duration, are offered at several universities in Europe and
North America. In addition, two staff will receive long-term training at the graduate level
leading to a MS degree in agricultural economics or other discipline closely related to poverty
alleviation/food security.



39 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
21.   The PAU will require approximately eight desktop computers with large storage,
memory, laser printer, fax, and graphics capability and appropriate software: word-
processing, spreadsheets, database, project management, LAN, communication and desktop
publishing capabilities. A short-term consultant will be required to set up the computer
network, install software and provide initial training in the use of the reconimended
hardwaretsoftware combination. In addition, office copy and fax equipment and related
expendable supplies will be required.



-40-
Annex 2
Page 1 of 13
MOZAMBIQUE
Food Security Capacity Building Project
POVERTY ALLEVIATION UNIT
PROFESSIONAL MOZAMBICAN STAFF: TERMS OF REFERENCE
1. Director of the Poverty Alleviation Unit
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The Director of the Poverty Alleviation Unit will be responsible
for the overall management of the Poverty Alleviation Unit (PAU)
under the supervision of the National Director of the Directorate
of Planning (DNP) of the Comissao Nacional do Plano (CNP).
The major responsibilities of the Director include:
-    establishing the long-term objectives of the PAU and
annual review of progress towards those objectives,
-    the establishment of annual targets for performance by
the unit and its principal staff,
-    the  gradual  strengthening  of the  analytical  and
coordination capacities of the unit to the point where
the unit is able to utilize data, studies, research
and  analysis   accomplished  by  other  units  of
government, the University and independent researchers
for the purpose of providing the Government of
Mozambique with significantly improved understanding
of the poverty situation and food security in the
country as well as the implications of policies,
programs and projects--in progress or planned--on the
poor.
-    developing and maintaining institutional mechanisms
for ensuring coordination with other governmental
institutions, donors and NGOs,
-    overseeing the performance of the PAU and its projects
against planned annual targets.
Specific tasks of the Director
-    supervising the preparation  of the annual work plan
-    supervising the preparation of poverty assessments
including guidance and instructions to the provincial
planning commissions
-    overseeing the implementation of the  Food Security
Capacity Building Project and the StA Initiative and
preparation of semi-annual reports on both projects
-    overseeing the continuing implementation of the SDA
Initiative



- 41 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 13
EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE
The candidate will be a university graduate preferably in  a
relevant  field  (e.g.,  economics,   nutrition  agricultural
economics, rural sociology, statistics and so on).
The candidate should have had at least five years' experience in
the Government of Mozambique or NGO activity.
The candidate will be a Mozambican citizen.
He/she must be able to travel for short and extended periods
within Mozambique and abroad. He/she must be able to make
excellent written and spoken presentations before audiences on
topics related to poverty and food security and the work of the
PAU. He/she must be fluent in Pcrtuguese and English.



-42 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 13
2.Rural /Agricultural Economist--Food Security
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The agricultural economist will have principal responsibility for
analysis and preparation of policy recommendations in areas
relating to agricultural production, food systems, food markets,
food prices, food imports and with regard to the impact of all
types of food aid on domestic food and agricultural production.
The agricultural economist will be responsible for the PAU's
output regarding all aspects of 'food availability' and changes
in food availability seasonally, annually and over the long term
in all regions and major urban areas of Mozambique.
Utilizing information, studies, reports and relevant research
undertaken by others or commissioned by the Poverty Reduction
Unit and completed by the Unit's data analyst, the agricultural
economist will focus efforts on determining the principal causes
of food insecurity, whether individual, household, community,
district, provincial or national, as these relate to the
availability of food. This requires close collaboration with
public and private sector sources outside PAU including the
Directorate of Statistics, the Ministry of Agriculture Crop and
Early Warning Systems unit, DPCCN which monitors food aid
recipients, the agencies that collect food price data, NGOs and
other private welfare organizations and UN agencies operating in
Mozambique and Southern Africa.
The agricultural economist will be responsible for developing and
refining modalities for determining the impact on food
availability of existing policies, strategies, programs and
projects, current and planned. On the basis of this analysis
he/she will offer options for change or improvement of these
policies, programs or projects which, if enacted, would likely
lead to the improved operation of food systems and increased food
availability at the household level in both rural and urban
areas. The modalities and recommended options would assist
strengthening, over time, the capacity of the Planning Ministry
to review and comment on the food security implications of
programs and projects of the Ministries of Agriculture, Commerce,
Industry, Transport and others.
Given the prevalence of episodic, severe drought in Mozambique,
the agricultural economist will be the principal officer in the
PRU for preparing policy recommendations intended to improve
Mozambique's preparedness capabilities to withstand, without
serious human suffering, the ravages of future droughts and other
natural calamities. This is a "preparation of policy options"
responsibility, not the actual administration or implementation
of programs and strategies approved by the Government.
Specific Tasks of the Agricultural Economist
-    prepare his/her annual work program for review and
approval by the PAU Director which sets out the
objectives and major tasks for the up-coming year.
-    prepare quarterly progress reports on major work in



-43 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 13
progress, on reports prepared, and any changes in the
annual work program.
-    develop a system of regular reporting on overall food
availability in Mozambique using material prepared by
the Ministry of Commerce on food imports, the Ministry
of Agriculture on production estimates and from public
and private market entitites--Agricom, or other public
food marketing entities, major private traders and
food processors and millers regarding the status of
domestic food stocks. This report, to the extent
possible should be in a standardized "food needs
assessment" format.
-    develop a system for incorporating food price trends,
collected by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry
of Commerce and/or the Directorate of Statistics, as
a component of an overall food security status report.
Utilize this system to prepare periodic reports for
use by the Ministry of Planning.
-    participate actively in food security workshops in
Mozambique and abroad.
=    participate  as  a  member  of  a  poverty  research
committee,   working   closely  with  officials   of
government agencies, the faculties of agriculture,
economics and other entities of the University, NGOs,
private  researchers  in  developing  an  effective
research agenda which includes a focus on increasing
knowledge of the causes of and remedies for household
food insecurity.
EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE REQUIRED
The candidate will be a university graduate, preferably in
Agricultural Economics.
The candidate will demonstrate exceptional skills in analysis of
data and information, good organizing and participatory skills.
The candidate will be proficient in written and verbal
communication.
The candidate will have had at least three years of post-
university experience in work relevant to this position.
The candidate will be a Mozambican citizen.
The candidate will have the opportunity for short-term training
in food security subject matter.



-44-
Annex 2
Page 5 of 13
3. Social Scientist
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The social scientist will have principal responsibility for the
collection and analysis of information regarding the causes of
poverty and food insecurity in rural areas as well as for policy
recommendations aimed particularly at interventions relating to
household and intra-household well-being with special reference
to the most vulnerable groups in society. He/she will work
closely with the Agricultural Economist on matters of food
availability and distribution and with the   Data Analyst on
poverty and food security indicators.
Appropriate data and information indicators will explicitly
include:
consumer price indices for urban and rural markets
household incomes and expenditures for the poorer deciles
of the population
indices of the availability of food (initially at the
provincial level and for major cities and towns; eventually
at the district level)
nutrition
access to basic social and economic services and factors of
production
incomes and employment
The social. scientist will work closely with ministries and
agencies of the government which are responsible for collecting
information relating to these indicators in order to improve the
quality and reliability of information and to regularize the
frequency of its collection.
The social scientist will pay primary attention to such issues
as land availability, land use rights, the distribution of land,
the division of labour in agricultural society, gender roles and
responsibilities, social networks, farming systems and their
links to social, economic and power structures at district,
provincial and national levels. This means thdt the social
scientist will work closely with the Commission on Land in the
Ministry of Agriculture and with the Directorate on Agrarian
Studiet in the Ministry of Agriculture as well as with the
Section on Nutrition in the Ministry of Health, with INDER and
the Directorate on Rural Development of the Ministry of
Agriculture as well as the anthropology and other social sciences
faculties of the University of Eduardo Mondlane. The social
scientist will have particular responsibility for evaluating
interventions in the above-mentioned areas and for evaluating the
need for rural safety nets.
The social scientist will be versed in such research



-45
Annex 2
Page 6 of 13
methodologies as household surveys, semi-structured interviews
and rapid rural appraisal techniques and such planning
methodologies as gender planning and logical framework and will
be responsible for training planners at district, provincial and
national levels in these and such other techniques which will
provide them with the information necessary for policy
formulation. The social scientist will therefore work closely
with the Centros de Formacao Agraria at national and provincial
level on their training programs and with the Agricultural
Economics and Social Sciences faculties of the University of
Eduardo Mondlane.
Specific Tasks of the Social Scientist
-    prepare his/her  annual work plan  for  review  and
approval by the Director which sets out objectives and
major tasks envisioned for the up-coming year;
-    prepare   quarterly   progress   reports   on   work
accomplished and in progress and suggesting any
changes in annual work program
-    prepare analyses of land use in Mozambique and in the
ten provinces and recommendations in conjunction with
the Commission on Land
-    commission research on rural safety nets, form a
working group on the subject and hold workshops with
the objective of designing a safety net for the most
vulnerable groups in rural societies
-    commission research on the differentiation of groups
within the so-called family sector and recommend new
categories appropriate for policy design and a data
collection system based on the new categories of
farmers as well as on cooperatives and mixed
enterprises
-   prepare analyses  on  the conditions necessary  for
transformation of sub-subsistence farming into rural
self-sufficiency   and   eventually   into   surplus-
production and develop policy recommendations
-    in collaboration with the Centro de Formacao Agraria
and other agencies, design training modules in
research methodologies appropriate for policy design
and planning methodologies
-   participate actively in food security seminars and
conferences
-   develop in conjunction with the data analyst a series
of specific reports on poverty indicators  for the
areas enumerated above
-   develop a system for incorporating these specific
reports into an overall Annual Poverty Assessment



-46.
Annex 2
Page 7 of 13
assist in establishing a poverty research committee
EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE REQUIRED
The candidate will be a university graduate preferably in rural
sociology and with at least 3 ysars of post-university experience
in work relevant to the requLrements of the position would be
considered.
The candidate will demonstrated exceptional skills in research
and analysis of data and information, good organizing and
participatory skills.
The candidate will be a Mozambican citizen.
The candidate will be provided with opportunities for short-term
training in gender planning and relevant research methodologies.



-47-
Annex 2
Page 8 of 13
4. Data Analyst/Statistician
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The data analyst/statistician will be the principal officer of
the PRU responsible for collecting data and information from
sector ministries, the CNP, other governmental institutions and
studies and research carried out by many entitites in Mozambique
as well as poverty-related research from other developing
countries.
He/she will be responsible for maintain..:ng the professional links
between PAU and all other units and entities in Mozambique, in
the SADCC region and elsewhere and for ensuring that all
necessary and useful data and information is received in the
unit.
Utilizing his/her statistical knowledge, the analyst will convey
to the other professional staff the data and information relevant
to their particular responsibilities and duries togetaer with an
appraisal of the validity, reliability and overall usefulness of
the data/information from the perspective of a professional data
analyst/statistician.
He/she will establish a data base or set of linked data bases
with qualitative and quantitative information intended to monitor
poverty status. This will require collaboration with the Social
Scientist and the Directorate of Statistics to establish, over
time, a set or sets of time series indicators which will track
poverty status and changes therein. This would include, for
example,    data    sets    on    consumer    price    indices,
nutrition/malnutrition, incomes and expenditures of households,
food prices, food production, food imports, employment and
indicators on access to health, sducation, water, credit, land
and so on: Duplication of data already -.llected by the
Directorate of Statistics and sector ministrieL would be avoided.
Specific tasks
-    prepare his/her annual  work plan  for  review  and
approval by the Director which sets out objectives and
major tasks envisioned for the up-coming year;
-    prepare   quarterly   progress   reports   on   work
accomplished and in progress and suggesting any
changes in annual work program
-    working closely with other professional staff of the
PRU, the analyst will help in determining the data
requirements of the unit and assist in designing
prototype data-collecting programs which can be used
by other agencies in the public and private sector,
including other ministries, the university, donors and
so on, the objective being the improvement of data
collection relevant to poverty analysis with an early
emphasis upon food security
-    represent PAU in workshops, seminars and conferences



- 48 -
Annex 2
Page 9 of 13
dealing with data-gathering teChniques, rural and
urban rapid appraisal methodology, the application of
statistical methods to problematic developing country
environments such as that encountered in Mozambique.
EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE
The candidate will be a university graduate with a relevant
methodological background.
The candidate will demonstrate exceptional skills in analysis of
data and information, good organizing and participatory skills.
The candidate will have exceptional computer skills and be
familiar with the use of computers in data collection, storage,
retrieval and report design. He/she will be experienced in
spreadsheets and database design using microcomputer software
such as dBase, Foxpro, Clipper, Paradox, Access or similar
relational databases on UNIX-based platforms.
The candidate will have had at least two years of post-university
experience in database work, including data manipulation,
analysis and reporting.
The candidate will be a Mozambican citizen.
The candidate will have the opportunity for short-term training
in poverty reduction-food security subject matter and the use of
data in this analysis.



-49 -                             Annex 2
Page 10 of 13
5. Social Development Planner
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The social development planner will have primary responsibility
for analyzing the existing data and information on social and
economic  infrastructure  and  access  to  basic  services  in
4ozambique. To this end, the social development planner will have
primary contacts with the data base being developed by the
Technical Group of the National Reconstruction Commission (Grupo
Tecnico) and its provincial level counterparts and the
Directorate of Statistics through its Household Budget Surveys
as well as other agencies involved in this research. He/she will
commission the research necessary to complete the existing
picture and will help set in place an on-going data collection
system at provincial and national levels, together with the
Social Scientist and Data Analyst.
On the basis of this information as well as that gathered from
rapid rural and urban appraisal and from such qualitative sources
as anthropological studies, the social development planner will
make an annual report on progress in coverage of basic services
and will make policy recommendations concerning the quality as
well as quantity of coverage. The social development planner will
help initiate new and experimental ways of delivering social and
economic services in Mozambique and will develop pilot projects
especially at provincial level.
The social development planner will work with the Secretariat of
State for Social Action and its provincial organs to ensure that
urban safety net/s is/are in place for the most vulnerable groups
in society and will contribute to the effort to revive community
interest in care for the most vulnerable groups. To this end,
he/she wilt enlist the help of non-governmental organizations and
will develop with them pilot projects around community sponsored
social services.
The social development planner will be responsible for training
national and provincial level cadres in social development
planning through working closely with them in planning and
monitoring the expansion of social and economicservices during
the phase of national reconstruction. He/she will develop modules
in social de      ment planning for the training programs under
the Food Sect_. £ Capacity Building Project.
Specific tasks
-    prepare his/her annual work program for review and
approval of the Director which sets out the objectives
and major tasks envisioned for the up-coming year
-    prepare quarterly progress rer'-%zts on major work in
progress, reports prepared a:id any changes in the
annual work program
-    work with the Social Scientist in developing a system
for incorporating these specific reports into an



- so -                           Annex 2
Page 11 of 13
overall Annual Poverty Assessment
-    work with the appropriate agencies in the design of
urban safety nets
-    work with the Secretariat of State for Social Action
and NGOs in taie design of community based social
services for the most vulnerable groups
-    work with the appropriate ministries in the design of
experimental ways of delivering social services
-    participate actively in food security seminars and
conferences
-    assist in establishing a poverty research committee
=    organize workshops on the above-mentioned themes
EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE REQUIRED
The candidate will be a university graduate preferably with a
degree in social development. However, a person with a bachelor's
degree and at least 3 years of post-university experience in work
relevant to the requirements of the position would be considered.
The candidate will have demonstrated skills in research and
analysis of data and information, good organizing and
participatory skills.
The candidate will be a Mozambican citizen.
The candidate will be provided with opportunities for short-term
training in social planning and relevant research methodologies.



Annex 2
Page 12 of 13
6. Macro-Policy Analyst (Economist)
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The primary responsibility of the macro-policy analyst will be
to monitor the on-going macro-economic and social conditions in
Mozambique and recommend those policies necessary to improve the
overall conditions for an increase in employment, productivity
and well-being. He/she will be responsible for analyzing the
social impact of policy interventions. The second area of
responsibility for the macro-policy analyst is to monitor the
progress of the national reconstruction and the process of
decentralization of government and services in the country and
to recommend those actions necessary to accelerate these
processes. The third area of responsibility is to recommend
policy in the area of employment creation.
In order to exercise these functions, the macro-policy analyst
will work in close coordination with all of his/her colleagues
in the collection and analysis of data. In addition, he/she must
work closely with the Technical Group of the National
Reconstruction Commission and the provincial level technical
groups, with the Directorate of Statistics and provincial
counterparts, with the Ministry of Labour and provincial
counterparts, with the Conselho Tecnico de Planificacao and the
Estado Maior of the Provinces and all other agencies involved in
the above-mentioned tasks.
Specific tasks
-    prepare his/her annual work program for review and
approval of the Director which sets out the objectives
and ma3or tasks envisioned for the up-coming year
-    prepare quarterly progress reports on major work in
progress, reports prepared and any changes in the
annual work program
-    develop in conjunction with the data analyst and
social scientist a series of specific reports on
poverty indicators for the areas enumerated above
-    work with the social scientist in developing a system
for incorporating these specific reports into an
overall Annual Poverty Assessment
-    work with the Coordinator of the Technical Group for
National Reconstruction in a developing a system for
monitoring the progress of national reconstruction
-    work with the Ministries of Labour,  Industry and
Energy  and  Agriculture  on  employment  creation
strategies
-    assist in establishing a poverty research committee



-52 -
Annex 2
Page 13 of 13
EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE REQUIRED
The candidate will have at least a bachelor's degree in economics
hith at least five years of post-university experience in
planning.
The candidate will demonstrate exceptional skills in data and
information  analysis,   as  well  as  good  organizing  and
participatory skills.
The candidate will be a Mozambican citizen.



- 53 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
Food Security Capacity Building Project
Terms of Reference
IDA-Financed Long Term Policy Adviser
GENERAL DESCRIPtION
An internationally-recruited senior policy consWtant on poverty will be reruiue for an estimated
36 months, with initial recmiting th begin as soon as the project is effective, with the consultant
to begin work as soon thereafter as possible. This consultant will serve as a secior adviser to the
Directr and oer professional staff of the Poveny Reduction Unit of the National Directorate
of Plnning of the National Planning Commission with the overall task of incorporating food
security objectives into the povery agenda of CNP in the belief that food insecurity in
Mozambique, rooted In the pervasive povery In rural and uban areas, is of such high priority
that efftus to Improve it must be initiated as rapidly as possible. The role of the Poverty
Reducton Unit in this task Is to help ascetai the extent and causality of povery, with an inidail
emphasis on food Ineurity, and to help Insure that overall Government planning eforts and
proam  are appropiately targeted on the major causative factors, and in the highest priority
area of the country.
'Me advise will report to amn receive drdction from the Director of tbe PRU. If the Government
so desires, it may contract with a university or other center with demonsrated excellene in the
disciplines assoiat  with poverty reducion, and food security in partIcar to provide the three
years of long-trm policy consultant sevices. It Is anticipated that one pero for tL' entir three
yea period, or two prsons each for 18 months would be recmited. Individual long-term
cofnltances of less than 18 mobnhs would not be conside  except in exceptional circumstan, 'i.
rho principal task of the long-term IDA-financed consultant will be to assist In developing thu
nlytical and policy formulation capacities of the PRU over the life of the project to the point
where the unit is able to discharge iu taks a  responsibilit  effectvely. The focus of the
advisr's work would be on developing strong, mutually-beneficial working relationships between
the Unit and other organizations in Mouambique - in both public and private secrs, both
centrally and at the provincial and dsrict levels - In ways that promote clearer understanding
of dto scope and short- and longtermo causes of pasive poverty, and the key nature of food
ilnseCUit as both cause and mult In addition, the consuluta would assist the PRV to promote
offective pogram, planned and Implemented by other nstuments of Govment, MN s and
msbted by donors aimed at reducing poverty and, witin the poverty context, at reducing food
Insecurthy as well.
Together with the Director of the Povery Reduction Unit, md in cosultatlo wih the other
pofessional staff of the Unit Wuding the FAO-financed Food Seciuty Advl), the provincial
planning team, the staff of the Directmrae of Statcs, personnd of the Investment and
Ecoomic Anaysis Deparmen  of the Planning Diretorate, staff at INDER, the food security
coordinats at CFA and the Faculty of Agronomy at Eduardo Mondlane University, and others,
the Coordina  will develop, within four months fom the time of his/her arval in Mozambique,
a derailed set of objctives and timephased output to serve as bister work program durig the
fist IS monahS of the proje  Such work program wil be up-dated anualy in conjunction with
tho up-dating of tb work proS    for the Unk   a whole, and br the activities of the hod
Securty Projct within the overl PRU work prgrm.
To Specific tasks to be addressed In te work program will be:
a. Work with Moz;anbican staff in developing an integrated data boase, dawing on information
collected by the range of line agencies dsribed In the main text of the PSCS SAR.



-54 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
b. Provide on-the-job training for the professional staff, in conjunction with the FAO adviser in
policy-related analysis of data, information and researcb findings; in this context, helping
deternine what the data are showing, what poverty-related trends appear to be emerging, what
can and cannot be derived from the data. In addition, the consultant will help design the
publications to he produced to disseminate poverty- and food security-related Information and
analysis.
c. Advise PRU staff in determining the policy implications for the most Impoverished population
sub-groups in both rural and urban areas derived from the data analysis.
d. Advise PRU staff on developing policies to confront the worst aspec  of impoverishment
within the context of major national planning and economic analysis including but not limited to
the CEM, PFP and annual planning and budgeting exercises.
e. Facilitate the creation of a poverty-related research agenda and the linkages between the PRU
as a user of research results and the University, Muzambican and foreign scholars, NGOs,
consulting firms and donors who would implement and finance the povert (with an emphasis on
food security) research commissioned by the PRU.
f. Develop ways to actively involve the private sector as an active participant in increasing the
awareness of confonting povert and food insecurity and in helping devise non-governmental
approaches fbr reducing poverty and food insecurity through business growth, employment
creation, emphasis of labor-intensive producdon methodologies, adding value to agricultural
production, and the investigation of technologies producing income for very impoverished grups
and households.



-S5S -
Annex 4
Page I of 4
Mozambique
Food Security Capacity Building Project
Information Flows to the Food Security Policy Unit
The FSPU will gather information from a wide range of sources which will come in two forms, i.e.,
either as data to be incorporated into the database for analysis and use by the Unit, or as repons,
research papers etc. to be used by the Unit as background materials. A description on the source
institutions for the data and kinds of information which they produce is provided below.
M sy of Agriculture
Two national directorates in the Ministry of Agriculture produce information which can be used by
the FSPU - the National Directorate for Agriculture (DINA) and the National Directorate for
Agricultural Economics (DEA).
The National Directorate for Agriculture produces a quarterly forecast of production of the major
crops. This is based on a well-designed system of monthly reports on crop growth and harvest
prospects at the District level which are aggrgated to produce forecasts at the national level. Some
40 percent of districts provide regular reports during the growing season. This material is
supplemented by agrometeorological data collected at 13-16 stations. However, the methodology
used to make firecasts is based on the 1965 census, and although some adjustments to the
production coefficients have been made, the paucity of knowledge about the present structure of
agriculture and of exiting farimng systems makes these adjustments larely speculaive. The
DINA forecasts are often not consistent with ad hoc reports received directly from the provinces.
Surveys are being carried out in some districts which will enable a gradual improvement but, until
peace is finally re-established throughout rural Mozambique, the prospects for substantial
accuracy and reliability are limited.
The National Directorate for Agricultural Economics produces a monthly bulletin of producer and
retail prices for selected distrcts in three provinces - Nampula, Sofala and Maputo. The DEA
also carries out socio-economic surveys, such as the work being done on food markets, prices and
production by Michigan State in Nampula and Cabo Delgado provinces which will be of immense
use to the Unit.
Ministry of Commerce
There are three sources of information within the Ministry of Commerce which will be of use to the
FSPU.
The Food Securtv Department (FSD) produces a weekly summary of food aid arrivals for the
mrnket sector (Chegada de Cereais") and a monthly publication "Food Pledges and Shipments
Bulletin" which describes donor commitnts for both market and emergency food distribution.
Data are disagg       at the regional level - northern, cental and southem.
The FSD has recently begun collecting monthly provincial-level data on food arrivals and
distibution (both market and emergency) and weekly market prices in the provincial centers. It
has also begun collecting information to enable it to make an esimate of the end-of-season market
surplus of food crops by province. At present, data from ten provinces are being collected.



-56 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
Whether this level of commitment can be maintained - and improved - over the long-term by
provincial officials is still uncertain at this time. It is hoped that the Ministry of Agriculture can
eventually be in a position to collect this and similar data from all provinces.
The FSD combines data and infimation from all available sources to provide an overview of
prospects for the coming 12 monts and publishes it in the quarterly Food Security Bulletin. It also
produces a monthly update of this Bulletin. Te FSPU will take over this fiunction and will
eventuaUy be responsible for the publication of these two documents.
AGRICOM. the agricultural marketng parAstatal, presently collects data describing its trading
activities in food and other crop markets in which it participates as a buyer and seller. These data
are updated monthy and aggregated at the provincial level. Ihe data include the reported activities
of pvate traders, but, since there is no incentive for private traders to inform AGRICOM of their
activities, and since the proportion of total production marketed through AGRICOM has been
declining (and will likely continue to decline as private traders are able to establish themselves
more fully through the countryside) AGRICOMNs estimates of total marketed production are
becoming less accurate. Given the unportance of data regarding marketed production for analysis
of national food security status, the project will seek ways through the Food Security Working
Group to establish a new set of reporting entities and a new format and schedule for reports.
AGRICOM also reports monthly on its own stocks position.
The Nato=    Dro rate of Intrnal Marketig (DNC) collects three types of data likely to be of
interest to the FSPU:
- The DNC issues import license for the import of cereals and food by pnvate traders. In
practice, this importation is compnsed almost entirely of wheat for the major urban centers.
Nonetheless, this will continue to be important data - particularly if peace brings economic
rowth and food imports increase. It should be noted that much of the food curently being
sold in the infonnal markets in Maputo (and other urban areas in proximity to the long inland
border) is from unecorded food imports. Estimates of the  unrecorded flows wil evnaly
have to be made in order to better reflect the actual food supply situation in the country.
*  Ihe DNC keeps records of food distributed by the Govement through the urban market and
urban ration (NSA) systems.
*  The DNC also keeps weeldy records of the stock of imported Govenent food for the
provinces of Maputo, Sofala and Nampula.
The Ministr of Health
The Nutition Unit in the Ministry of Health publishes infonnation on the levels of child
malnutition- birth weight and growth faltring. This is wed at the provincial level and
published quarterly. It is hopedthat other o atm c data (e.g., wasting, stunting, micro-
nutrient deficiency, nutrition status of pregnant and lactating mothers) can evenualy be collected
on a systematic basis to supplement the growth faitering and birth weight data. Admissions to
hospitals for nutriion-related ill health would also be important as would distrct-level aggregation
of all nutrition and health statistics.



-57 -
Aru4
Page 3 of 4
The Unit win the Mnistry of Coopeatton dcarged with responding to disasters and emergencies
of all sorts - including drought/famine and refugee feeding is DPCCN. This Unit provides food
and on-food emergency assistance to more than two million Mozasbicans at present. DPCCN
produces a semi-annual estmate of the numbers of people in each province who need emergency
assistance. It also produces monthly data describing the volume of food distributed to these target
populations and maintains a weeldy update of food stocks it keeps at the provincial level.
Ministy of Finance and Bank of Mozambique
These insttutions do not have major planning and budget forecasting responsibilities - these
fiucdoins residing, for the most part, in CNP - but they do maintain responsibility for allocating,
monitoring and reporting on counterpart fiuds generated from the sale of donor-provided program
food aid and other commodities. Data with regard to the utilization of these fimd - for what tasks
allocated, how efficiently used and the related potential impact on national food securty status - is
importat information for FSPU utilization and policy formulation.
Seretarv of State for Social Action and the Gabmnete de Ap-oio a Poulacao Vulnervel (GAPV)
GAPVU was created in 1990 with responsibility for gathering data on urban poverty and
implementing urban safety net programs. Its major program is the Cash Transfer Scheme which
distributes cash to qualifying urban households (who qualify through malnutrition and income
indicators. GAPVU produces a regular monthly report which details the numbers of beneficiaries
and the overall performance of the cash transfer program. It also produces sxdies on poverty
group identification and statistics on the absolutely poor target population which will be an
nvaluable source of food security status data in urban areas.
Gabinete de Promocao de Emprego (GPE)
GPE is responsible for gathering infonnation on urban employment and implemening employment
generating projects involving small and informal private enterprises. It. as yet, produces no fonnal
reports, but does generate useful data sets regarding employment levels, the nature of formal and
infonnal employment and estimates of the size and nature of the informal business sector. One of
the areas most in need of additional studies for purposes of identifying major causative factors of
undemutrition is the employment-generating capacity of proposed development programs and
proposed development expenditures. This will an area for intense early dialogue between the
FSPU and another Government agency and could be a major candidate for the use of studies funds
in the FSCB project.
Instittte For Rural Development (INDER)
INDER was established in 1990 with responsibility for developing and implementing a national
program of mral development and reconstruction. While still a new, and very small organization in
Govermnent, it is anticipated that INDER will shortly be involved in a number of rural studies and
will be generating considerable data and information on the status of development programs
throughout rural Mozambique. It will be extremely important for the Unit to maintain close and
continuing contact with INDER, given te latter's important role in rural development stategy and
project design and implementation in the post-war period.



- 58 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
Non-Government Organizations fNGOs)
The NOOs provide subsntal supplementazy support to the Govermment's efforts to ameliorate the
adverse efficts of the war (and more recently, the drought) and are a major presence in both rural
and urban areas. Many NGOs canry out socio-economic suweys to help maintain and improve the
effectiveness of their programs. Their internal reporting systems produce a large amount of data,
some of which will be usefiul for the FSPU. It will important to establish firm and continuing data
and information-sharing links and to ensure that NGO information and NGO professional staffs
,are filly utilized and their food security-related data gathering is supported.
Use of the Data and Infonnation by the FSPU
The above data and information will be used in a number of ways:
e To monitor continuously the food security sitation throughout Mozambique. The Unit will be
represented on the technical sub-conmits of the National Comnittee for Emergencies
(CENE) which meets fortnightly to discuss various aspect of the emergency programs. This
wdil be the official adminitraive forum where the Unit can advise, wam and prompt those
implementing the emergency programs.
*  To monitor the effectiveness of existing policies and support proposals for adjusmet to those
policies. The Director of the Unit will attend the Comissao Tecnica do Plano (CTP). The
National Directors of Economy m each ministuy and their equivalents n the parastatals are
members of the Commission. It will provide the Unit with a forum to deal directly with senior
decision makers at the policy formulation and planning level.
- To prepare technical briefs for senior Government officials as requested.
ï To be used in the preparation and publication of an expanded Food Security Bulletin and its
monthly updates. (Publication of which will commence widiin six months of the establishment
of the Unit.
* To be used in the preparation of a number of reports, studies and monographs undertaken by,
or commissioned by, the U"nit.
* To be shared with researchers in the University and outside researchers who are engaged in
food security-related research and writing.
-June 28, 1992.



MOZMAOIUE
FOOD SEaCRITY CAPACITY BUILDING PRWECT
S tuiary Accoumts Cost suaary
MT                                           US$                                       X Total
-- ----------- -----. ---.------  - ----...----------.-----.-- X                                Foreign          Base
Local       Foreign           Total           Local  Foreign         Totat          ExdwWe             Costs
.......................~~.............      ...........................   ...... ...............
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
........ ............ 
A. CONSULTANCY SERVICES
1. FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                   196650.0    3 6W 50.0    3933000.0                 85.5    1624.5    1710.0                   95.0           23.9
2. LOCAL CONSULTANTS                     759952.0        189988.0       949940.0           330.4        82.6      413.0                20.0            5.8
- .-.-.--. ----..--.-..-.- - .-.--.-----.        .......................... .. .... ...... .......... .........
S"-Total                                     956602.0    3926338.0    48a294O.0                415.9    1707.1    2123.0                  80.4            29.7
B. FELLOWSNIPS
1. LONG-TERM                              64400.0    1223600.0    1288000.0                 28.0      532.0       560.0               95.0             7.8
2. SHORT-TERN                              13167.5      250182.5        263350.0              5.7      108.8      114.5                95.0            1.6
--   -- - - --.    -- - - -- - -              . .... ...... .. .. ............      . ..--..---.....-----------...----... .  .. .....
Sub-Total                                     767.5    147782.5    1551350.0                    33.7      640.8       674.5               95.0             9.4
C. TRAINING
1. TRG STWY TOURS                        128800.0        55200.0        184000.0            56.0        24.0       80.0               30.0             1.1
2. TRAINING LOCAL                       1942580.0    1033620.0    2976200.0                844.6      449.4    1294.0                  34.7           18.1
3. TRAINING-UNIVERSITY                   125925.0    2392575.0    2518500.0                 54.8    1040.2    1095.0                   95.0           15.3
Sub-Total                                   2197305.0    3481395.0    5678700.0                955.4    1513.6    2469.0                  61.3            34.6
0. SALARIES/PER DIENS                        292816.0         26404.0       319220.0           127.3        11.5      138.8                 8.3            1.9
E. STUDIES                                    50600.0       961400.0    1012000.0               22.0      418.0       440.0               95.0             6.2
F. FUNDS                                      460C0.0        69000.0        115000.0            20.0        30.0       50.0               60.0             0.7
G. VEHICLES                                   20700.0       393300.0        414000.0             9.0       171.0      180.0               95.0             2.5
N. EQUIP/MAT/SUPPLIES                        196420.0    1517080.0    1713500.0                 85.4      659.6       745.0               88.5            10.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                      3838010.5   11848699.5   15686710.0               1668.7    5151.6    6820.3                  75.5            95.5
............. ....................... .... ...... ...... ................ ................... ...... ............ ........   ................  .
II. RECURRENT COSTS
... .._...........
A. OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
1. VEHICLE O0M                            15594.0       296286.0       311880.0              6.8      128.8       135.6               95.0             1.9
2. EQUIPMENT ORM                         156400.0       234600.0        391000.0            68.0       102.0      170.0               60.0             2.4
3. WILDINGS                                       0            0.0            0.0             0.0        0.0         0.0                0.0            0.0
;;       .    . .-       .. . ..   ;   -.  _   --  -- -     -- - - -  --  - -  -     ._.___. ...................... ...  _......_......... ......_      ..........   .....    _.  ......
Suh-Totat                                    171994.0       530886.0        702880.0            74.8      230.8       305.6               75.5             4.3
B. SUPPLIES & MATERIALS                         1840.0       34960.0         36800.0             0.8        15.2       16.0               95.0             0.2
................... .........................--------------------------- .......... .. ... ...... .......... .. ..........
Total RECURRENT COSTS                        173834.0       565846.0        739680.0            75.6      246.0       321.6               76.5             4.5
.... .... ........... ....................... ...... ..................  ................................    ..................... .............
Total BASELINE COSTS                        4011864.5   12414545.5   16426390.0               1744.3    5397.6    7141.9                  75.6           100.0
Physical Contingencies                   241742.6       811680.3    1053423.0              105.1      352.9       458.0                77.1            6.4
Price Contingencies                     1022413.3    2857343.0    3879756.3                177.2      429.7       606.8                70.8            8.5
... .......... ....... ... ....... .... ..         .................    ..................
total PROJECTS COSTS                        5276000.5   16083568.9   21359569.3               2026.5    6180.2    8206.7                  75.3           114.9
SS3============ _C=3==                                                                   U        _        _                                                             0
Values Scaled by 1000.0 -   3/30/1993   19:52 



11021WIQUE
FOOD SECURITY CAPACITY IUILI01NG PROIECT
Swuary Account by Project CO_PoAnt
MT
Physical             Price
AVAREWESS/                                  Contingencies        Continrgecies
COORD AND   SKILLS   PRE-SERVIC                 -........................................
POLICY DEV  DEVELOP.  E TRAINING        total         X       Amount        X    Amoumt
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. CONSULTANCY SERVICES
1. FOREIGN CONSULTANTS            3022200.0   724500.0   186300.0  3933000.0           0.0        0.0      22.7   894298.5
2. LOCAL CONSULTANTS               662400.0   287540.0         0.0   949940.0          0.0         0.0     22.1   209967.4
Su- total                          3684600.0  1012040.0   186300.0  4882940.0           0.0         0.0     22.6  1104265.9
B. FELLOUSHIPS
1. LONG-TERM                       552000.0         0.0   736000.0  1288000.0         10.0   128800.0      21.9   282281.0
2. SHORT-TERM                       98900.0   148350.0    16100.0   263350.0          10.0    26335.0      14.7    38796.3
Sub-totat                           650900.0   148350.0   752100.0  1551350.0          10.0   155135.0       20.7   321077.3
C. TRAINING
1. TRG STUDY TOURS                      0.0   184000.0         0.0   184000.0         10.0    18400.0      27.5    50582.5
2. TRAINING LOCAL                       0.0  2408100.0   568100.0  2976200.0           7.7   228620.0      23.9   711428.7
3. TRAINING-UNIVERSITY                  0.0         0.0  2518500.0  2518500.0         10.0   251850.0      26.3   661914.9
.,. .. .. ..  .. ..... ........... ................. ............. ..................--........ .-------*---*-----*------g
Sub-total                                0.0  2592100.0  3086600.0  5678700.0           8.8   498870.0      25.1  1423926.0
0. SALARIES2PER DIENS               187200.0         0.0   132020.0   319220.0          0.0         0.0      25.6    81756.6
E. STUDIES                         1012000.0         0.0         0.0  1012000.0        10.0   101200.0      26.5   268251.2
F. fUNDS                            115000.0         0.0        0.0   115000.0         10.0    11500.0      30.3    34897.5
G. VEHICLES                          92000.0    46000.0   276000.0   414000.0          10.0    41400.0       18.1    74898.7
H. EQUIP/MAT/SUPPLIES               529000.0   230000.0   954500.0  1713500.0          10.0   171350.0       19.8   339972.8
.... ............................... .... .......... .... ...... .............................................................
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS             6270700.0  4028490.0  5387520.0  1S686710.0          6.2   979455.0      23.3  3649046.0
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. OPERATION & IUAINTEIANCE
1. VEHICLE OSM                      73600.0        0.0   238280.0   311880.0          10.0    31188.0      32.4   100929.8
2. EQUIPHENT 0814                   92000.0         0.0   299000.0   391000.0         10.0    39100.0      30.8   120374.8
3. BUILDINGS                            0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0         0.0
Stb-total                           t65600.0         0.0   537280.0   702880.0         10.0    7028.0       31.5   221304.6
S. SUPPLIES S MATERIALS              18400.0    18400.0          0.0    36800.0        10.0      3680.0     25.6      9405.7
........................ ...... ........... ................... ................. ........................... .................................... ...........
Total RECURRENT COSTS               184000.0    18400.0   537280.0   739680.0          10.0    73968.0      31.2   230710.3                                   - 
Total BASELtIE COSTS               6454700.0  4046890.0  5924800.0  16426390.0          6.4  1053423.0      23.6  3879756.3
Physical Contingencies            258290.0   234485.0   560648.0  1053423.0                                                                                    X
Price Contingencies              1573373.6   887072.8  1419309.9  3879756.3           6.1   236859.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                8286363.6  5168447.8  7904757.9 21359569.3           6.0  1290282.0       18.2  3879756.3                                  S
Taxes                                  0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
Foreign Exdchne                  6896116.9  2466889.8  6720562.2  16083568.9          6.1   986760.6
u  S. ce ............................... ..................................................................30...1... ..............
Vatues Scaled by 1000.0 3/30/1M9   t9:52



- 61 -
Annex 6
Mozambigue
Food Security Capacit Building Project
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
IlDAFiscalYear          23        24      29          26        2Z        21
Annual                  0.8        1.9     1.9        1.3       0.5       0.2
Cumulaive               0.8       2.7      4.6        5.9       6.3       6.3



a   I
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
co M ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~         
- a
E   0*a2aI xuvZ



Food Secudty Cpacdty Building Project - Overall Task Management Chart
Ye I_             Year 2             Yew 3             Yer 4              Yer S
ID Name                   Ct1I Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4  tr Qtr2      I        Ir 23    I  U       24 Qt  1 i Qtr2  tr3 Qtr4  Qtr IQtt2It t3    I  QtrO4 tr 1tr2 2tr3
26 Supervision Misson - Bonaf Asasesnm
27 Wo.kplan Revew & Update                                  0
28  ank Supervision Mission 
29 Draft FSPU Research agenda
30 Sank Supervision MWssion
31 Deveop Nati Agenda for FS Reseatch
32 Prepare compendium of FS Reseaerh
33 let Nadonal Food Security Conhreno
34 Ptoj Implementation Revew                                            0
35 Review Publication of studIes                                            0
36 Supervision Miss - UEM, CFA,data sy
37 Intenad Review of proj petformaneo
38 Supervision MiAss - FS policy Impact
39 Review Ouelitatdve bnpact At sesame                                                                                 Ow
40 Superv Miss - Work Plan
41 2nd Naonda FS Conference
42 Project Close-out, lessons learned
m
L                                                                                        19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
OQ
Project: Mozambique FSCB Project   Cdderal  Progress            Surnrry o
Date: 1115193           NoncrithicaldMile            s   Pole 2led Up
Page 2



-64-                                 Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
KEY PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
INDICATOR                               Year I  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5
1. Coordinadon and PoUlcy Development   _
a) recruitment:
i) 3 Mzambican professional staff         x
ii) 2 additn Mozanibican professional staff       X
iii) 2 long-term foreign consultants      x       X
b) fellowships:
i) long-term fellowships for PAU staff                    X X      X
ii) shott4emnfellou ibips for PAU staff           X       X
c) submission of annual workplans with     X        X       X       X
detailed monitorable targets
d) midterm review                      L                    X x
e) start up of integrated FS and Poverty
database                                   x
t)   edatabase fully established                            x
2 l-servIce Food Security Awmaess
creation and training
a) National FS conferences
i) convene intersectoral working group   X
ii) conduct at least 3 worshops           X       X
iii) fs national conference                       X 
iv) second national conference                                     X
b) regional shy tours                      X       X        X       X
c) develop taining modules for CFA
courses                                    X       X        X       X
d) shortterm fellowships for trainers              X        X
e) uain CFA iiainers in use of modules             X        X       X
f) implementation of training                       X       X       X
3.Pre-service FS sinint                    -       -                -       -
a) visiting professors contracted          X        X
b) feLowships for faclty members                    X       X        X
c) procurement of equipment and materials  X       X        X       X
d) ubmission of research protocol for               X
projet-financed research
e) implement resrch project                        X        X       X
4. Qualvde assesmeDt
a) inteim review - Phase I report                           X
b) Pbase II report                _                                          X



- 65 -
Annex 8
Page l of 3
Mozanbique
Food Security Capacity Building Project
Supervision Plan
Bank Supervision Input Lnto Key Activities
1.    Carel and timely supervision of this project is essential to its success, particularly so
since a new administrative unit of the Mozambican Govermment is being created to carry out the
central component of fte project (the Food Security Policy Unit in the National Planmng
Commission) and because the project's success depends on the establishment and continued
functioning of an efficient set of relatonships among a number of goverment agencies and several
levels of govement, between govenment, the University and other training facilities and between
the govement and the NGO cmmunity.
2.    In addition to the normal Bank supervision and monitoring, shown in Table 1 below, the
Food Security Capacity-Building project also includes a module to underLake "beneficiary
assessment" - an attempt to measure and analyze the impact of the project on, in this case, pfimary
beneficiaries, i.e., those trained within the project to understand food security problems, issues and
strategies.
3.    The staff inputs indicated in the table below include both regular supervision Missions to
review progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence and related implementation actions
plus additional supervision to:
- determine the pace at which the links are established between various units of government and
between govenment and the non-govenmnt sector which are involved in the project;
- provide special attention to the initiation and early functioning of the food security working
groups;
ï observe and offer support for the preparatory work for the first of the two food security
conferences; and
* sharpen the analysis and recommendations of the Food Security Policy Unit and eventually the
SDA unit in the National Planning Commission to focus particularly carefully and usefully on
the food insecurity of the poorer rural and urban target populations.



- 66-
Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
Approx
Dates               Activity                          Expected Skills     Staff
(Mo/Yr)                                               Required            Input
11-93   Review detailed workplans for FSPU, University,  Food Security,  4 SW
CFA & help estblish FS Working Groups    Training,
Management        ______
4-94    Review food security module development,   Food Security       2 SW
training programs, workshop agenda,    Training
university faculty and research agenda.
8-94    Supervision Mission: review qualitative impact    Food Security  6 SW
assessments (Benif. Assess.) & project  Beneficiary
operations. Assist in preparation of Food  Assessment
Security Seminar and review FS studies done
and papers ready for publication.
11-94   Review anmnal work program - esp. data/info  Food Security     5 SW
linkages between Govt agencies, plans for  Management
data integration and reporting, target group    Data Methodology
identification, research agenda for next year.
4-95    Attend first food security confreence, review  Food Security   4 SW
annual workplan, review linkages between  Beneficiary
Govemment and management training          Assessment
institutes, training modules and status of
beneficiary assessments
7-95    Supervision Mission - Project Implementation  Food Security    4 SW
Review - full review of all components  Management
11-95   Supervision Mission - review UEM, CFA, food    Food Security   4 SW
security integrated data system and reporting,  Data Management
review progress toward integrating food  Poverty
security and poverty units in CNP
2-96    Overall review of project performance      Food Security       2 SW
5-96    Supervision Mission - Attend food security  Food Security      3 SW
workshop, review annual workplan       Management
8-96    Review Phase U Qualitative Impact Assessment   Beneficiary     2 SW
(Beneficiary Assessment)                   Assessment
11-96   Supervision Mission - detailed review of work  Food Securicy   6 SW
program including reviews of project   Management
operations in each component           Training
4-97    Attend Second National Food Security       Food Security       2 SW
Conference, review status of integrating food   Management
security and poverty units, discuss ove all
project performance with senior government
officials.                                           ..
10-97   Supervision Mission, project close-out details,    Food Security  2 SW
develop narrative of project accomplishments,
problems and lessons leamed.



-67 -
Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
3.    Progress Reports are to be submitted to the Baik's project Task Manager as follows:
* In a form to be agreed during negotiations.
*  At the end of March and September each year, with the first report due in September,
1993.
*  By the Director of the Food Security Policy Unit of the National Planning Comission.
4.    Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of the Director of the Food
Security Policy Unit, National Planning Commission. He/She will be assisted by the FSCB project
coordinators selected for each component of the project as described in the Project Staff Appraisal
Report.
5.    Review meefings regarding project progress, performance and issues will be held in
accordance with the schedule of Supervision Missions presented in the Supervision Plan described
above.
6.    The Food Security Policy Unit of the National Planning Commission will be responsible
for coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions, and for providing information
required by missions. Mission briefing meetings on arrival, and wrap-up meetings will nonnally be
chaired by the National Director of Plamiing of CNP with a concluding meeting to be held,
normally, with the Vice-Minister of Planning.
7.    In addition to the time required for field supervision in Mozambique, three staff weeks of
time at Headquarters will be required each year for supervision-related tasks.



- 68 -
Page 1 of 2
Food Secur4 Coapaity Building Proiec
LESSONS LEARNED IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.           A review of the portfolio and the lessons learnt since GOM started to borrow
from IDA (1986) were carried out during two Country Implementation Review (CIRs) held in
February, 1991 and October, 1992 respectively. These ClRs focussed on four areas: project
implementtion arrangements, especially the use of project implementation or coordination units;
delays in procurement, disbursements, compliance with audit requirements and public
administration salary and incentive structure. For each of the areas, a short description will be
given of the problems encountered, the recommendations of the CIRs, the progress made in
carrying out the recommendations and how these lessons learnt have been taken into account in
the Food Security Capacity Building Project.
2.           ProTect  hmem  Arranga=  'Me earlier projects in the portfolio have
established separate Project Implementation or Coordination Units (PlUs), and PIU staff
questioned the merit of such arrangements versus strengthening implementing agencies as part of
a sustainable institntional development strategy. PIUs do not fit in the Mozambican public
adlinistration structure: its levels of autonomy and authority are ill-defined with the sectors
tbecause they often handle budgets larger than the rest of the sector) and they are often expected
to coordinate activities of various institltions for which it has no clearly defined hierarchy, rules,
and procedures. For the financiers, such as IDA, PIUs facilitate project implementation becaue
they bring all the necessary infbrmation together for monitoring. In the newer projects in the
portfolio, attempts have been made to strengthen existing institutions, but it is too early to see
results of this newer strategy.
3.           The present project will be implemented by the beneficiary institutions themselves,
thus contributing to strengthening their own capacity. The need for maintenance of systematic
records in a central place will be met by appointing a project coordinator within FSPU to
maintain accounts and other documentation.
4.           Delays in procurement. disbursements and audit re4uirements. In procurem
three major problems were identified: delays in approvals within Mozambique, delays in obtaining
no-objections from IDA, and not having a review of the local procurement procedures. Within
Mozambique, procedures could be streamlined by adoption of standard contracts and staff training
in MINFIN. Such contracts have been prepared for consultants (individual and firms) and would
be approved by MINFIN by June 30,1992. IDA's new standard contract for civil works of
December 1991, has also been analyzed and translated. While IDA's standard contract has been
used up to now without major problems, it actully contradicts Mozambican laws and a more
thorough review and recommendations for adaptation of the Mozambican laws has been planned
in the course of FY93 as part of the review of the local procurement assessment. All
recommendations on streamlining of approval procedures would have to be implemented as a
condition of second tranche release of the ERC.



-69 -                                 Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
5.           Diskursements are lagging by about 50% compared to SAR estimates for the
overall portfolio. Decentralization of disbursement authority from a centralized point (Banco de
Mozambique) to PIUs or implementing agencies as well as streamlining the procedures
authorizing payments within the Ministry of Finance has been recommended as part of the
Financial Management Action Program (FMAP) to be implemented before second tranche release
of ERC would be authorized.
6.           Audit reports for the whole portfolio for 1990 were eventually received in 1992.
The recommendations of the auditors for the rehabilitation credits are being implemented as part
of the FMAP; for most projects, the auditors only had minor comments, which are being taken
into account.
7.           Within the Capacity Building project, there will be many technical assistance
contract and the streamlined procedures would contribute to rapid project implementation.
Contracting a procurement agent for the procurement of goods would also alleviate pressure on
Implementing units. For the contracting of civil works only two implementing agencies would
have responsibility and both have experience with IDA procedures. In fact, GEPE's
computerized system for procurement and accounting would be transferred to other implementing
agencies as well as it has been evaluated as one of the best project monitoring systems in the
portfolio. Given the experience in the portfolio, the disbursement period for this project has been
set at seven years for a five year investment program.
8.           fiblic administration salary and incentive structure. With establishment of a
salary incentive fund to be put in place under the Capacity Building Project, many of the
identified problems of retaining staff to implement projects or programs should be removed. The
proposal gives weights for education level attained, years of experience and level of responsibility
and will be applicable to all higher level staff as well as higher level technicians. As clear criteria
are now available, it will also be possible to apply these in a transparent way to staff working in
project implementation agencies.



-70-                           Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
Mozambique
Food Security Capacity Building
List of Documents in The Project File
A. Project-Related Documents:
Government of Mozambique. "Food Security Capacity Building Project. Food Policy
Development Component"
-----. "Food Security Capacity Building Project. Center for Agriculture Training
Component"
. "Food Security Capacity Building Project. Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry
Component."
World Bank. Mozambique Food Security Study (Report No. 7963-MOZ)
B. General Background Documents:
Food and Agriculture Organization. GIEWS. FoodOutlook Quarterly Bulletin.
------. GIEWS Food Supply Situafion and Crop Prospects in Sub-Saharan Africa:
Special Report, Rome. June, 1992.
Mozambique: Rural Rehabilitation Project: Preparation Mission. Rome.
December, 1991.
Government of Mozambique. Mozambique: Emergency Drought Appeal, 1992-1003.
May, 1992.
--. Ministry of Agriculture. Boletim Mensal De Infonnacao do Mercado. Maputo
Feb, 1992.
- Ministry of Agriculture. "A Socio-Economic Survey of the Smallholder Sector
in the Province of Nampula: Agriculture Marketing In the Smallholder Sector. Working
Paper No. 4E. Maputo, Jan. 1992.
"A Sociv-Economic Survey of the Smallholder Sector in the Province of
Nampula: Research Methods. Worldng Paper No. 3E. Maputo Jan. 1992.
Green, Reginald. Poverty Assessment Paper (Estudo Sobre o Impacto Social do Programa
de Reabilitacio em Relacao aos Grupos Populacionais Mais Desfavorecidos. Feb. 1989.



-71 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Greener, Robert. Trip Report: Food Security Information System for Mozambique:
Report of Visit to Maputo June 4-27, 1991. Food Studies Group, Oxford. July 15, 1991
Schubert Bernd. "Increasing The Food Security of Destitute Households in the Cities of
Mozambique" Team Consult Berlin, GTZ. Maputo, April, 1992.
Tschirley, David, et. al. "A Market-Based Commercial Food Aid Program for
Mozambique" Michigan State Univ. circa March, 1992.
United Nations Development Program. National Family Sector, Agriculture Development
Program, Pre-Program. (draft project document) Maputo, January, 1992.
U.S. Agency For International Development. Final Report: Making the Transition to a
Market Economy: Commercial Food Aid and U.S. Yellow Maize in Mozambique. August,
1991
Varela, Dr. Raul. "Projecto de seguranca alimantar MA/MSU o que e e como funciona."
Tempo May 17, 1992 pp. 29-37.
von Braun, Joachim, et.ai. "Improving Household Food Security" IFPRI "Theme Paper"
Washington October, 1991.
World Bank. Mozambique Poverty Reduction Framework Paper. Oct. 1990
-------  . Mozambique: Progress Report on the Food Security Action Plan (Background
Paper Prepared by the World Bank for Discussion at the 1990 Consultative Group
Meeting Nov, 1989)



85RUCTURB OP MSE  NAOImONL FIIEIN  COhIUsSION
Minister of Planning
(Prime Minister)
Vice Minister
of Planning
National Director                   Technical                 National
of Statistics                       Planning          -----  Director of
Comission                 Planning
SD&
(Poverty
Advisors)
Department of             Department of             Office for               Food
Investment and            Current                   National                 Security
Development               AnalysiA                  Reconstruction           Pnlicy Unit



b    ............................................................................................ ... . .......... ..................  ...   ......
"   CO         Suun s Pd as   I                                                ~~~~~                                                          ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......  ..................I
Z a jwpl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........   ...                                                                                                         ............
----------   .     l       alt *--  -*---~ ----- - - - - - - - -                             - -       - - -          - - - -            -    - - - - -                - -       -    - -      - - - - - - - - -                            - - - -
~s I
r ~~~~~~~~~~~ * ~~~~~~~~~...  ...........
Z  <                  ..                    !        =   _            _                           ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............. ....  _uok 
CaOW.  *.,     (!,                                                                                                                                                 ..........
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .    .........                                                                        ..    L:;.;-  --;-- =................... ; '';''''-'
X                                                          ........                                :             L                                                                                    ...................
R __ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  . 1,I.... ...........
'P~~~~~~~*"
-J~~~~~-
\O i ,1uogzI u                                       1MWW9A0 .                         I.nb[qweZOI



