Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19502
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOOD SECURITY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(Credit 2487-MOZ)
June 30, 1999
Macroeconomics 1
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Metical (pl. Meticais)
US$1 = 3,000 Meticais (at time of appraisal, March, 1993)
US$1 = 12,475 Meticais (at time of ICR, June 1999)
US$1= SDR 0.747 (at time of ICR, June 1999)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFA        Centro de Forma,co Agraria
CNP        Centro Nacional de Plano
DPDS       Departamento de Populacao e Desenvolvimento Social
EDI        Economic Development Institute
ESRP       Economic and Social Recovery Program
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization
IAF        Inquerito Nacional aos Agregados Familiares sobre Condicoes de Vida
IFPRI      International Food Policy Research Institute
INE        Instituto Nacional de Estatistica
MPF        Ministerio do Plano e Financas
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
PAU        Poverty Alleviation Unit
PPA        Participatory Poverty Assessment
PES        Plano Econ6mico e Social
SADC       Southern African Development Community
SDA        Social Dimensions of Adjustment
UEM        Universidade Eduardo Mondlane
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:             Callisto E. Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director:          Phyllis Pomerantz, AFC02
Sector Manager:            Sudhir Shetty, AFTM1
Team Leader:               Jehan Arulpragasam, AFTMI



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
FOOD SECURITY CAPACITY BUILDING (Cr. 2487-MOZ)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Planned Outcome and Program Objectives ................................................. i
Achievement of Program Objectives and Assessment of Outcomes .................... i
Implementation Experience .........................................    ............. ii
Key Lessons Learnt ....................................................... iii-iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................. ...... 1-12
A. Background ......................................................                I
B. Planned Outcome and Project Objectives ............................................... 2
C. Achievement of Objectives ......................................................   3
D. Assessment of Outcome .......................................................   6
E. Implementation Experience ......................................................   7
F. Project Sustainability ...................................................... 9
G. Bank Performance.                 ...................................................... 10
H. Borrower Performance ...................................................... 11
I. Key Lessons Learnt ...................................................... 11
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ................................ .......................  13-21
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Credits and Loans
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources Missions
APPENDICES
A. ICR NISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE
B. BORROWER EVALUATION REPORT - DPDS
C. BORROWER EVALUATIONS REPORT -UEM
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authonization.



MOZAMBIQUE
FOOD SECURITY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(Credit 2487-MOZ)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Food Security Capacity
Building Project in Mozambique, for which Credit 2487-MZ in the amount of SDR 4.6 million
was approved in April 1993, and made effective in February 1994.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1998, ten months after the original closing date.
At the time of the extension SDR 914,000 was cancelled. Final disbursement took place on May
th
11 , and a balance of SDR 857,691 is to be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Jocelyn Mason (Consultant), under the guidance of Jehan
Arulpragasam, Economist and Task Team Leader, AFTM1, and reviewed by Sudhir Shetty,
Acting Sector Manager, AFTM1, and Phyllis Pomerantz, Country Director for Mozambique.
The borrower provided comments that are included as appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, February 1999. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by inviting the Bank mission to a project evaluation seminar, and by
contributing its own evaluation report.



MOZAMBIQUE
FOOD SECURITY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(Credit 2487 - MOZ)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Planned Outcome and Project Objectives
1. The outcome aimed for from the Food Security Capacity Building Project was to
strengthen national capacity to confront and deter the major causes of food insecurity and
poverty in Mozambique through the formulation and implementation of food security
policies and programs. The project's objectives aimed at achieving this outcome were to:
(i) establish a strong institutional focal point for food security policy development and
coordination of strategy implementation; (ii) improve understanding of food security
issues and responses among decision-makers and staff of relevant sectoral ministries; and
(iii) incorporate research on and teaching of food security-related issues in university and
pre-service vocational training programs.
2. To strengthen the focal point for the development and implementation of food
security policy, the project aimed to (i) provide the Poverty Alleviation Unit (PAU) of the
National Planning Commission (CNP) with the staff, equipment and other resources to
monitor and address poverty and household food insecurity issues; (ii) provide short and
long-term foreign and local technical assistance to the PAU; (iii) provide short- and long-
term overseas fellowships for PAU staff; (iv) provide funds for policy research; and (v)
support analysis and dissemination of food security information.
3. To increase national awareness of food security issues and to train personnel to
address these issues, the project was intended to (i) support the holding of two national
conferences on food security and a number of smaller workshops on specific issues; (ii)
provide a limited number of study tours to neighboring countries; (iii) support the
development of a program of in-service training in food security for managerial and
technical staff of relevant line ministries at the central, provincial and district levels,
working primarily through the Ministry of Agriculture's Training Center (Centro de
Forma,co Agrario, CFA); and (iv) support the development and implementation of a
course in nutrition and food security at the Health Sciences Institute in Maputo.
4. To strengthen the food security content of pre-service training programs, the project
was designed to support improvements in research and teaching and provide textbooks
and computer equipment to the Faculty of Agronomy of Eduardo Mondlane University
(UEM).



- ii -
Achievement of Objectives and Assessment of Outcome
5. The Food Security Capacity Building Project was designed ancl then implemented
over a critical phase of Mozambique's history. The project's design, based on analytical
work done prior to its identification in 1992, focussed on addressing the food security
needs of an impoverished economy emerging from war. The project's effectiveness in
1994 coincided with the establishment of Mozambique's first post-war Government, and
the project's implementation has covered a phase in which the orientation of policy
shifted from shorter-term rehabilitation and food security concerns to longer-term poverty
alleviation objectives. This project's main legacy, despite some weaknesses, has been its
effectiveness in developing the analytical orientation and building the local institutional
and technical capacity which has resulted in the development of Government policy on
the issues of poverty and food security through this defining period in Mozambican
history.
6. The project was successful in achieving its overall objectives, despite its failure to
undertake formal training to the extent originally envisaged under the project. The
Department of Population and Social Development (DPDS) at the M:inistry of Planning
and Finance (MPF) has been and is undertaking policy development and analysis
functions in close coordination with other government and non-government institutions.
It is in a position to formulate and help implement food security policies and programs, as
well as influence Government policy more broadly in favor of poverty alleviation. With
support from the project, the Govemment designed several strategic policy documents in
the area of food security, population, and poverty, and has completed a number of key
pieces of analytical work orienting Govemment policy. Principal among the latter is the
first national Poverty Assessment, which resulted from substantial field work, including
the first national household expenditure survey. Awareness among policy makers on the
issues of food security and poverty has increased significantly; a small cadre of local staff
benefited from considerable technical training and experience; and a number of
workshops and seminars took place. Finally, the project has enabled UEM to become the
focal point for pre-service training and research on poverty and food security issues.
7. The project was also successful in achieving its planned outcomLe of strengthening
national capacity to confront food insecurity and poverty in Mozambique, specifically
through the establishment of a focal poverty unit and the formulation cf poverty and food
security policies and programs. The analytical work that the PAU and the DPDS
undertook now provides a good foundation of knowledge about poverty in Mozambique
where previously there was none. The project has also spurred a close coordination
between the staff at UEM and within the Government. The success in developing
institutional capacity and technical capacity was achieved despite limited implementation
of the formal training envisaged under the project. Substantial overseas training of
govemment officials did not take place, and a formal in-service training program was not
developed under the project as intended. Nevertheless, the project achieved its outcomes
and primary objectives by resorting more heavily on on-the-job training and short-term
training for technical capacity building. The project's impact on the implementation of
policy is more difficult to assess, however. Given institutional changes that are still



- 111 -
taking place, and the lag between design of strategy and its implementation, it is too early
to determine the project's ultimate impact in program implementation.
Implementation Experience
8. The project was identified in early 1992 and went to the Board in April 1993. The
project only became effective, however, in February 1994, due in large part to delays in
putting the necessary institutional arrangements in place.  The project closed on
December 31, 1998, after an extension of one year from the original closing date.
9. Implementation of this project was successful overall, although moderated by poor
implementation in the area of formal training. The reasons for the project's success are
that (i) the project emerged from a dialogue with the Government which began in 1987;
(ii) there was strong commitment and continued involvement of some key individuals
within Government as well as good long term consultants; (iii) the right balance was
struck between timely delivery of outputs, the sophistication of research undertaken, and
ensuring that Mozambican nationals learnt from the experience; (iv) implementation was
flexible, allowing for the project to adapt to changing circumstances; (v) participation
from outside the Ministry was well coordinated in the work of the PAU and the DPDS;
and (vi) the project was managed through a centralized organizational structure. The
main reasons for the failure of formal training under the project included (i) the shortage
of qualified staff in the Government that precluded the release of those best suited to
undertake training and (ii) the failure of CFA to evolve as a pre-training center. As a
result, only about 60 percent of the credit was disbursed, with the most significant
deviation of actual disbursements from appraisal estimates being in the area of training.
10. In terms of sustainability, the project has established a focal point in Government for
poverty analysis and policy formulation whose institutional sustainability seems secure.
The training and experience gained by Government staff through in-service training will
continue to benefit policy development. Moreover, the UEM will continue to be in a
position to offer in-service courses. However, while the prospects for the institutional
sustainability of the UEM component also appear good, its financial sustainability will
depend on external financing and is therefore less certain. In summary, although the
sustainability of the outcomes of this project seem promising, capacity building is
inherently a long-term undertaking and may require longer-term support than the
standard Bank project.
Key Lessons Learnt
11. Several lessons may be learnt from the experience of this project. They are:
Project simplicity, clear objectives, and flexible design are important to project
success, particularly where capacity constraints and rapid change are present.
Government ownership is vital to the success of building institutional capacity,
during both design and implementation. A design informed by the expressed
needs of highly placed Government officials, and flexibility in the implementation
of the project to fit evolving Government strategies, are important.



-iv -
*     Striking the right balance between timely delivery of outputs and in depth
research on the one hand, and ensuring that nationals learnt from the experience
on the other, is especially important and depends both on careful Bank
supervision and on an understanding and commitment to capacity building on the
part of the implementing agency.
*     One-off capacity building projects are inherently less suitable instruments to
undertake human capacity building in severely capacity and financially
constrained countries. A longer-term, programmatic approach, integrated into the
development of investment programs, would help ensure the sustainability of
outcomes.
*     In countries with very low capacity and weak public sectors, short-term and on-
the-job training is often more appropriate for Government officials than longer-
term training abroad (such as Masters degrees). The candidates for these programs
are rare commodities within the Government, have high existing work loads, and
are difficult to replace, even on a temporary basis.
*     TA can only be successful where there are counterparts detailed specifically to
benefit from it. Moreover, the effectiveness of technical assistance is dependent
on both quality of the TA and the relationships between the technical advisors and
the Borrower officials as counterparts. Where these conditions are met, long-term
TA in a highly capacity constrained country can have positive effects.



MOZAMBIQUE
FOOD SECURITY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(Credit 2487-MOZ)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1. The Food Security Capacity Building Project was designed and then implemented
over a critical phase of Mozambique's history. The project's design, based on analytical
work done prior to its identification in 1992, focussed on addressing the food security
needs of an impoverished economy emerging from war. The project's effectiveness in
1994 coincided with the establishment of Mozambique's first post-war Government, and
the project's implementation has covered a phase in which the orientation of policy
shifted from shorter-term rehabilitation and food security concerns to longer-term poverty
alleviation objectives. This project's main legacy, despite some weaknesses, has been its
effectiveness in developing the analytical orientation and building the local institutional
and technical capacity which has resulted in the development of Government policy on
the issues of poverty and food security through this defining period in Mozambican
history.
2. When the Food Security Capacity Building project was designed in the early 1990s,
Mozambique was still in a civil war that had resulted in widespread destruction and
displacement of refugees. Economic mismanagement during the 1980s, including
distorting exchange, trade and pricing policies, had contributed to the collapse in
domestic production, and to shortages and high parallel market prices for food and other
consumer goods. In 1987 the Government commenced a gradual but comprehensive
Economic and Social Recovery Program with the support of the Bank and other external
partners. The reform program was generously supported by external aid partners,
including through substantial food aid aimed at maintaining subsistence food
consumption levels as well as through numerous safety net programs. In 1992, as much
as 72 percent of total national cereals consumption was supplied through food aid.
3. The need for strengthened national capacity to undertake policy analysis and to
coordinate policies and programs in the area of food security and poverty was
increasingly evident with the increased support for programs designed to address food
security concerns in the early 1990s. The Food Security Study, undertaken by the Bank
in 1989, stressed the need for appropriate management of food aid resources and design
of safety net strategies to simultaneously protect the food insecure and allow for the
transition to domestic production'. Sound Government policy was required to mitigate
the potential negative impact of food aid on prices and production, to rationalize existing
safety nets and government interventions to alleviate poverty, and to appropriately utilize
food aid counterpart funds in the budget. In addition, given the multiplicity of donor
l Mozambique: Food Security Study, October 12, 1989, World Bank, Report No. 7963-MOZ.



- 2 -
interventions in the area of food security and poverty reduction, there was an urgent need
to build government ownership and improve coordination of government policies and
programs in these areas. it was recognized that the Government would require enhanced
institutional capacity to develop, implement, monitor, and modify policy. It is these gaps
that the Food Security Capacity Building project was designed to address.
B.   PLANNED OUTCOME AND PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4. The outcome aimed for from the Food Security Capacity Building Project was to
strengthen national capacity to confront and deter the major causes of food insecurity and
poverty in Mozambique through the formulation and implementation of food security
policies and programs. The project's objectives, aimed at achieving this outcome, were
to (i) establish a strong institutional focal point for food security policy development and
coordination of strategy; (ii) improve understanding of food security issues and responses
among decision-makers and staff of relevant sectoral ministries; and (iii) incorporate
research on and teaching of food security-related issues in university and pre-service
vocational training programs.
5. To strengthen the focal point for the development and implementation of food
security policy, the project aimed to (i) provide the then recently established Poverty
Alleviation Unit (PAU) of the National Planning Commission (CNP) with the staff,
equipment and other resources necessary to monitor and address poverty and household
food insecurity issues; (ii) provide short and long-term foreign and local technical
assistance to the PAU; (iii) provide short- and long-term overseas fellowships for PAU
staff, (iv) provide funds for policy research; and (v) support analysis and dissemination of
food security information.
6. To increase national awareness of food security issues and to train personnel to
address these issues, the project was intended to (i) support the holding of two national
conferences on food security and a number of smaller workshops on specific issues; (ii)
provide a limited number of study tours to neighboring countries; (iii) support the
development of a program of in-service training in food security for managerial and
technical staff of relevant line ministries at the central, provincial and district levels,
working primarily through the Ministry of Agriculture's Training Center (Centro de
Formagao Agrario, CFA); and (iv) support the development and implementation of a
course in nutrition and food security at the Health Sciences Institute in Maputo.
7. To strengthen the food security content of relevant pre-service training programs, the
project was designed to support research and teaching improvements at and provide
textbooks and computer equipment to the Faculty of Agronomy of Eduardo Mondlane
University (UEM).
C.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8. The project was successful in achieving its overall objectives of establishing an
institutional focal point for food security policy and strategy, enhancing understanding
and capacity in the area of food security among policy makers, and integrating research
and teaching in these issues at the university and in the policy-making arena. Moreover,
the project flexibly supported the Government in shifting its policy focus from food



security in the emergency and reconstruction phase immediately following the war, to a
policy focused on broader poverty and development concerns. The achievement of these
objectives can be attributed largely to the project's strength in building institutional
capacity in the area of food security and poverty at the Ministry of Planning and Finance
and at the University, as well as to strong ownership of the project by these institutions.
The Department of Population and Social Development (DPDS) at the Ministry of
Planning and Finance (MPF), with the support of the project, has been and is undertaking
policy development and analysis functions in close coordination with other government
and non-government institutions; it has completed important analytical work and strategic
documents defining government policy in the areas of food security, poverty, and
population. The project has enabled the university (Universidade Edoardo Mondlane,
UEM) to become the focal point nationally for pre-service training and research on
poverty and food security issues. Effective technical assistance to both DPDS and UEM,
with substantial on-the-job training that took place under the project, contributed to the
project's success despite the fact that little of the planned training abroad and formal in-
service training occurred as planned, resulting in low disbursements under the project.
9. Coordination and policy development.  Under this component, the project
successfully strengthened a policy unit within MPF to become an effective focal point for
poverty analysis, policy formulation, and coordination. The PAU was housed from the
start at the National Planning Commission to ensure a close link between the analysis of
poverty and food security issues and the design of policy at the Government's main
ministry for economic policy formulation. Given its capacity, the PAU was soon also
given responsibility for other issues related to poverty for the Ministry and began taking
on new responsibilities not originally envisaged as part of the project, such as population
issues. When the Ministry of Planning was merged with the Ministry of Finance to create
the Ministry of Planning and Finance in 1995, the PAU was also transformed, joining a
population unit to create the Population and Social Development Department (DPDS), a
permanent department within the Directorate of Planning and Budget in the Ministry.
This not only ensured the assimilation of poverty and food security concerns into the
main policy making branch of government, but guaranteed that the benefits in terms of
training and experience gained during project implementation remained in the
government.
10. The PAU and the DPDS have helped generate major pieces of analytical work,
policies and strategies that the Council of Ministers has approved and the Government
has adopted as formal policy. The analytical work was undertaken by local professionals
with support from consultants, and included work on rural and urban poverty profiles,
work on a participatory poverty assessment, undertaking the household consumption
survey, and studies of the formal and informal safety nets. This analytical and policy
work has culminated in:
* A Poverty Reduction Strategy in 1995, presented by the Government at the
Consultative Group meeting that year, and remains the Government's official
policy stance to date;
*  A Population Policy, in 1998;
*  A Food Security Policy and Strategy, in 1997;



- 4 -
* A review of the formal safety nets in 1997 which led to a review of the
targeting mechanisms and the targeted groups within-the primary formal
safety net program (GAPVU);
*  The first national Poverty Assessment in 1998, which resulted from
substantial field work, including the first national household expenditure
survey, also financed by the project;
*  A Poverty Action Plan, a first draft of which was completed in December
1998 under the project.
11. Located within the Directorate for Planning and Budget, DPDS has brought a
poverty perspective to bear in effectively implementing important line-responsibilities
within the Ministry of Planning and Finance. For example, DPDS is now involved in the
annual inter-ministerial budget discussions and in the process of formulating the medium-
term expenditure framework, reviewing sectoral programs for their impacts on poverty.
DPDS has also had a major responsibility in preparing the social component of the
Government's annual economic and social plan (Plano Economico e Social, PES),
monitoring progress of this component of the plan, and preparing the Ministry's quarterly
report on the PES to the Assembly. Dialogue among Government's policy-making
agencies is also being informed by the work of DPDS, and this dialogue is expected to be
enhanced further with the dissemination and discussion of the Government's Poverty
Assessment and Poverty Action Plan in 1999.
12. With support from the project, DPDS has also been successful in putting into place
the consensus building and coordinating mechanisms needed for successful policy
development, implementation and ongoing review. Workshops and seminars at the
national and provincial levels played an important role, especially in the development of
the Food Security Strategy and the Population Policy, in ensuring that the concepts were
broadly understood and the emerging strategies informed by stakeholder concerns. For
example, the process of developing a food security strategy instigated a wide-ranging
debate on the issue, led to a better understanding of food security concepts, and created a
consensus on a market-based strategy. Inter-ministerial coordinating committees were
also involved in discussions and development of the Food Security Strategy, the
Population Policy, and the Poverty Assessment. DPDS prepares occasional briefs for the
Ministry of Planning and Finance and the Cabinet on issues of policy related to poverty
and social policy. As a result, with project support, DPDS has succeeded in generating
widespread discussion and sensitization of policymakers to the issue of food security
while developing a consensus on national policy.
13. The Government has also been somewhat successful, although less so, in
disseminating data, analytical work, and policy outputs under the project to interested
users of this information. Data gathered under the project has been useful in the design of
programs. The information collected as part of the development of nutritional profiles at
the district level in rural areas, for example, has been used by NGOs to develop or refine
their food security programs; and in Niassa Province, where commercialization was
shown to be one of the main food security problems, OXFAM developed a program to
extend credit to local merchants. DPDS has also put in place a poverty database
incorporating a wide range of data from various line ministries but the database does not



appear to be widely utilized. As a next step, DPDS is selecting monitorable indicators of
poverty. Data synthesized from this database and analytical work undertaken by DPDS is
published twice a year in a bulletin, entitled Enfoque, available to the public. Although
the delayed completion of the Poverty Assessment and Poverty Action Plan had not
permitted their widespread dissemination and discussion prior to the closure of the
project, it is expected that this will be an important activity for DPDS this year.
14. In service awareness creation and training. The success of this component was
mixed. Good working relations between DPDS and the sector ministries enhanced the
project's impact in raising in-service awareness on food security and poverty issues
across Government. As planned under the project's design, numerous workshops and
seminars contributed to the dissemination and discussion of concepts and strategies. A
national conference on Food Security, at which some of the findings of the Poverty
Assessment were presented, took place in October 1998; a major seminar on the Food
Security Strategy took place in November 1997. Both were attended by high level
professional government officials, academics, and representatives of NGOs and the
private sector, as well as students from the University.
15. The Centro de Forma,ao Agraria (CFA), however, never fulfilled its role as the main
in-service training facility for food security and poverty issues, despite a promising start.
Study trips to assess training needs among provincial staff did take place, and some
training modules were developed by consultants. However, capacity weaknesses within
the CFA, frequent changes in personnel, and lack of commitment within its leadership
explain this failure. This component also appears to have suffered from a lack of
commitment and adequate attention by Bank staff.
16. Other formal long-term in-service training planned under the project also did not take
place, including two long-term (Master's level) fellowships under the first component,
four short-term fellowships aimed at the senior PAU staff, and the study abroad proposed
for UEM faculty. Short-term in-service training was undertaken. Staff of the DPDS took
a number of briefer study trips abroad, including courses at Sussex University in the
United Kingdom, at the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) in the
United Sates, and courses held by EDI in South Africa.
17. The project was more successful in providing informal in-service training. Key staff
at DNPO and DPDS, including the eventual National Director of Budget and Planning
benefited substantially from the training and seminars undertaken jointly with technical
assistance under the project. The benefits of on-the-job training and capacity building at
DPDS would have been even greater if the unit had been staffed with more government
officials than the 3 to 5 that staffed the unit through most of the project, highlighting the
obvious importance to the success of a capacity building project that there be national
counterparts in place to benefit from such capacity building.  In addition, to the
significant on-the-job training undertaken by IFPRI in Maputo for DPDS staff, course
materials prepared by EDI were also translated into Portuguese, which were then used for
training in Mozambique.
18. Pre-service training. This component has been successful. Where previously there
was no Faculty at the University that provided specialized training in food security and
poverty issues, now there is. After getting off to a slow start, implementation of this



- 6 -
component improved considerably with the appointment of a new Dean who had been
involved in the development of the project from the start, and in late 1996 and early 1997
progress began to be made. Since then, the UJEM has become the focal point for training
and research on food security. The UEM's Faculty of Agronomy has changed the
curricula to incorporate food security and poverty issues. The Faculty has expanded the
number of staff working on Food Security related issues from one person in 1995 to ten
people in 1998. Curricula were revised to include issues of food security, while the
teaching format was updated. In addition, the Faculty is developing a Masters Program
which they intend to submit for approval to the University Council. UEM has also been
recognized within SADC as a regional center of excellence providing post-graduate
courses on food security policy, and has delivered a course for lusophone countries in
SADC. The planned cooperative arrangements between UEM and other regional and
international universities, however, was not achieved during the time span of the project.
19. Coordination between VEM and DPDS, as well as other ministries, was an important
objective of the faculty and is one of the notable successes of this component. Students
from the Faculty were placed on short-term internship-style assignments in DPDS and the
line ministries. The close link between UEM and DPDS has increased the participation
of Mozambican nationals in policy relevant research. It also increased the capacity
building effects of the technical assistance at both UEM and DPDS, which worked in
close coordination to the benefit of both institutions.  It has also provided the
Government's policy making units with an important pool of young trained talent,
particularly important in a public sector in which rapid turnover is the norm. As a
significant change to the way the project was originally envisaged, the Dean requested
that the UEM also engage IFPRI to support their activities under the project. This not
only had a positive effect on strengthening the Faculty of Agronomy's food security
activities, but also facilitated the coordination of the research done for DPDS.
D.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
20. The project was generally successful in achieving its planned outcome of
strengthening national capacity to confront food insecurity and poverty in Mozambique,
despite low disbursement levels due to disappointing evolution of the formal training
component of the project.  Importantly, the project supported analysis and the
formulation of key policies and strategies on food security and poverty and built
institutional and technical capacity in these areas. Formal project outputs, although
limited in number, were important to defining Government strategy and policy. The fact
that project activities were fully subsumed into the Government's work-program, while
making it difficult to isolate specific project accomplishments from general Government
accomplishments, contributed to a high degree of ownership and to the likely
sustainability of project activities.
21. The project successfully strengthened the technical capacity of a unit which has
formulated Government's policies on poverty, food security, and population, while also
building a consensus on these issues and strategies. With the project's support, the unit
was strengthened to also play a mainstreamed role, through its input into the budgetary
process and the design, monitoring, and reporting of the Government's social and
economic plan, in the formulation of Government policy.



22. The project's impact on the implementation of policy is more difficult to assess.
Institutional changes within Government, while appropriate, lessened the direct role of
DPDS, and thereby the project, in the actual implementation of policies and programs.
DPDS has been given more responsibility for oversight and coordination on poverty
issues and policies while program implementation has been delegated to other
institutions. For example, a new National Institute for Social Action (INAS) within the
Ministry for Coordination of Social Action (MICAS) took on the responsibility of actual
implementation of safety net and other social programs; implementation of the household
survey was moved to the National Institute of Statistics; and implementation of food
security policies and programs are likely to be moved to the Ministry of Agriculture.
Given these institutional changes and the lag between design of strategy and its
implementation, it is too early to determine the project's ultimate impact in program
implementation.
23. The analytical work that the PAU and the DPDS undertook now provides a good
foundation of knowledge about poverty in Mozambique where previously there was
none. The Poverty Assessment in particular, although faulted to some extent because of
weaknesses in design and implementation, provides the basis for a better understanding
of the geographic and gender dimensions of poverty. This work also had a powerful
capacity building impact, by providing the opportunity for Mozambican officials to gain
invaluable experience in collecting and analyzing data.
24. The project raised awareness among key decision makers of poverty and food
security issues, including at the critical National Director level. It also provided exposure
to a range of food security issues to technical personnel from line ministries at the central,
provincial and district levels. National awareness beyond a fairly small elite of decision
makers within and outside Government was not achieved, but in the context of
Mozambique this was probably overly ambitious and of questionable practicality.
25. The project has spurred a close coordination between the staff working on food
security issues at UEM and within the Government. This symbiotic relationship between
the two institutions will ensure, on the one hand, that Government policy is informed by
research, and on the other that the UEM's work is supported and framed by the demands
of policy makers. The relationship between UEM and Government is also providing
Government with a pool of potential employees among the cadre of students who
undertake policy-relevant academic work at the University in the areas of food security
and poverty.
E.   IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
26. This project was, on the whole, implemented successfully and effectively. Although
the project's failure to develop any formal in-service training or to support training
abroad lowered disbursements and moderated the success of the project's implementation
record, these weaknesses did not in the event prevent the project from achieving its
planned outcome.
27. The project's success can be attributed to several factors. First, the project itself was
the culmination of work begun seven years before effectiveness. The project emerged
from a dialogue with the Government which began in 1987. The thread of this dialogue



- 8 -
coursed through two structural adjustment operations and the SDA project as well as
considerable analytical work. Although contributing to the considerable delay between
approval and effectiveness, diverse positions in the policy dialogue were able to agree to
broadly accepted planned outcomes and tangible objectives; adequate institutional
arrangements were made; and the individuals upon whom the project depended were
integrated into the process. The project, therefore, was able to benefit from not only a
maturing partnership but also from partners on both the Bank and the Government side
who were increasingly familiar with the problems.
28. Second, personnel and management mattered. The strength and commitment and
continued involvement of some key individuals within Government was principal among
the reasons for the success of the project. In addition, the project benefited from good
long term consultants, funded through FAO and bilateral donors as well as IDA. Because
of the strong leadership from the Mozambican authorities, the long-term consultancies
were managed with a minimum of support from Bank staff, and a positive dynamic
emerged of trust and loyalty that ran between the consultants and the Govemment.
29. Third, implementation was slowed to a pace that contributed to capacity building.
The authorities were determined that the project - a capacity building project with an
emphasis on analytical tasks -- be implemented at a pace that permitted civil servants to
be involved in and learn from the work. Striking the right balance -- between timely
delivery of outputs, the sophistication of research undertaken, and ensuring that
Mozambican nationals learnt from the experience -- was a particularly important
accomplishment of this project. As a result, the experience gained from this project and
the training provided to make it possible have been assimilated by the Government.
30. Fourth, the specific nature of the project objectives, combined with flexible
implementation by the Mozambican authorities and the Bank, contributed to success in
implementation. The fact that the desired outcome of the project was especially clearly
articulated in the project documents and on the part of the Mozambican authorities was
critical to enabling this flexibility. Moreover, the project limited itself to a short list of
focussed objectives, albeit with a potentially large impact. This simultaneously avoided
overextending scarce capacity and allowed, in terms of the pace of implementation and
the activities undertaken, for the project to hew more closely to the Government's
evolving plan to achieve its objectives. For example, the project continued its support of
its original .objectives through the evolution of PAU to DPDS and the expansion of
DPDS' responsibilities to be the principal monitor of the PES.
31. Fifth, the authorities responsible for the project were especially successful in
coordinating participation from outside the Ministry in the work of the PAU and the
DPDS. Throughout the process of developing the analytical work, staff from several
other ministries, faculty and students at the University, representatives from NGO groups
and from the private sector were involved through seminars and workshops.
32. Finally, the project gained considerable benefits in terms of coordination and focus of
project activities from a centralized organizational structure. Given the generally weak
coordination between organs of the government in Mozambique, having the various
components controlled by one principal agency had the benefit of ensuring coherence,
coordination, and re-enforcement of effort among the components. The cost of this



structure, however, was that the responsibility for controlling the financial resources
overburdened DPDS, leading to administrative bottlenecks.
33. The main weakness of the project was the disappointing evolution of the training
components of the project. In particular, little of the planned formal in-service training
took place, including training overseas. The project's poor disbursement record was due
primarily to this reason. Of the credit amount of an SDR equivalent of about $6 million,
only about 60 percent was disbursed, with the most significant deviation from appraisal
estimates being in the area of training. Only about 70 percent of financing originally
allocated to pre-service training and only 15 percent of financing allocated to in-service
training were disbursed.2 The main reasons for formal training not being implemented as
planned under the project were that (i) the shortage of qualified staff in the Government
precluded the release of those best suited to undertake formal training and (ii) the CFA
failed to evolve as a pre-training center. The project was nevertheless flexible in
supporting on-the-job and short-term training instead of formal in-service training to
achieve the desired capacity building outcomes. This fact and the large share of
unutilized funds under the credit from the in-service training components suggest a
possible over-emphasis, during project design, of the importance and viability of formal
in-service training for capacity building as well as an over-estimate of the resources
required for such training.
34. Second, the project could have had even more input and impact in the policy making
process had the unit's input been sought on Mozambique's ambitious, broader agenda for
economic reform, including, for example, tax and trade reform and cashew reform. Some
form of formal review of policy by DPDS might have been included as part of the
department's original remit.   This shortcoming has been addressed with the
Government's recent commitment to establish a systematic technical review process of
the impact of key policies on poverty.
35. A third shortcoming applies to the implementation of the household survey (IAF),
the largest single undertaking under the project. Undertaken by the National Statistics
Institute (INE), an institution that did not benefit from direct technical assistance from the
project, the survey experienced some weaknesses in design and implementation. Timely
Bank supervision and technical input in the design and implementation phase of the
survey were also compromised with the shift of responsibility for the IAF to INE, which
was not formally linked to the project. Also, work commenced on a Participatory
Poverty Assessment (PPA) was not completed.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
36. The project has established a focal point in Government for poverty analysis and
policy formulation whose institutional sustainability seems secure. The activities of the
DPDS, including those related to poverty analysis, monitoring, and policy, are fully
2 At appraisal about $1,330,000 was estimated for pre-service training and about
$1,144,000 for in-service training. About $950,000 and about $174,000 respectively
were disbursed in these categories, while about $360,000 and about $745,000
respectively were cancelled.



- 10-
incorporated into the process of Government. The Government intends to integrate
DPDS' functions further into the Ministry's work, by merging DPDS and its staff and the
functions and staff of its macro-economic policy unit into a new unit with responsibility,
among other things, for a medium term expenditure framework. The change is expected
to both broaden the remit of the current staff of DPDS and strengthen the links between
the Government's poverty reduction program and its sectoral policies, although there is
the danger that, by doing this, the Government may have the opposite effect of
weakening the erstwhile DPDS' impact on policy formulation. A Poverty Action Plan is
being prepared to follow on from the Poverty Assessment. The Poverty Action Plan is to
be integrated with the medium term expenditure framework and integrated into the
budget. Further analytical work is also planned, including provincial poverty profiles and
a second household consumption survey for 2003. An inter-ministerial committee is
being established to coordinate Government policy and maintain its high profile; and a
systematic technical review process is to be established that will review the impact of
major policy changes on poverty and report to the Council of Ministers.
37. In terms of in-service training, the training and experience gained by Government
staff will continue to benefit policy development.  The mechanisms for building
awareness among decision-makers is also well-established. Moreover, the UIEM will
continue to be in a position to offer in-service courses. The CFA component, however,
has failed and no other institutionalized in-service training mechanisms were developed.
38. Prospects for the institutional sustainability of the UTEM component also appear
sound. By the end of the project the UEM had developed a critical mass of instructors at
the Faculty of Agronomy devoted to food security issues, had a numerous student body
working on these issues, and had established its preeminence as the locus for training and
research on food security issues and for informing government policy. The commitment
to this program on the part of the University and the Government appears strong.
39. The financial sustainability of the UEM faculty at its current size, however, is less
secure. Although budgetary financing for the Faculty of Agronomy has increased,
alternative external funding is being sought by the University to maintain the momentum
for food security and poverty research and training activities, including the retention of
technical assistance. Given the abundance of external aid financing currently available to
Mozambique, the identification of such financing appears promising. Nevertheless, the
experience under this component highlights the fact that capacity building, particularly in
academic institutions in highly capacity constrained countries, is inherently a long-term
undertaking and may require longer term support than the standard Bank project.
F.    BANK PERFORMANCE
40. Bank performance during the identification and preparation of this project was
satisfactory, although marred by over-optimism about the timing of implementation, an
overestimation of the funds required, and a possible failure to get the balance right
between training individuals abroad and institutional capacity building. While delays and
slow implementation were a problem, it appears that the staffs emphasis on a strong
institutional arrangement and on flexibility in design contributed positively to the
satisfactory outcome of the project. Bank performance during implementation was also
satisfactory on the whole. There was an unusually frequent turnover of staff responsible



- I1I -
for the project (five including the preparation period), but the effects of this were reduced
to a minimum by the presence from project effectiveness to about eight months before
project closure of a task member who oversaw the day-to-day activities of the project on
the Bank side, managing the task for a period, and later providing assistance to
subsequent task team leaders. Nevertheless, the frequent changes in emphasis associated
with new team leaders, and a break in the continuity of attention to certain issues such as
the CFA, the PPA, and the IAF household survey, are evident.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
41. Performance on the Government side was also satisfactory on the whole. Notable
was the strong leadership first from the PAU and then from the DPDS. During the early
stages of project implementation the PAU, the UEM and the CFA were managed
somewhat independently.  After delay, and with the decision to bring the UEM
component more directly under the oversight of the PAU, the UEM's performance was
improved. However, this had the effect of overburdening DPDS somewhat, leading to
delays and insufficient attention to some sub-components. A further shortcoming of the
borrower's performance was Mozambique's centralized system of contract approvals and
handling of project accounts, which overburdens capacity within MPF and the Central
Bank and leads to lengthy delays.
H.   KEY LESSONS LEARNT
42. Several lessons may be learnt from the experience of this project:
*     Project simplicity, clear objectives, and flexible design are important to project
success, particularly where capacity constraints and rapid change are present.
*     Government ownership is vital to the success of building institutional capacity,
during both design and implementation. A design informed by the expressed
needs of highly placed Government officials, and flexibility in the implementation
of the project to fit evolving Government strategies, are important.
*     Striking the right balance, between timely delivery of outputs and in depth
research on the one hand, and ensuring that nationals learnt from the experience
on the other, is especially important and depends both on careful Bank
supervision and on an understanding and commitment to capacity building on the
part of the implementing agency.
*     One-off capacity building projects are inherently less suitable instruments to
undertake human capacity building in severely capacity and financially
constrained countries. A longer-term, programmatic approach integrated into the
development of investment programs would help ensure the sustainability of
outcomes.
*     In countries with very low capacity and weak public sectors, short-term and on-
the-job training is often more appropriate for Government officials than longer-
term training abroad (such as Masters degrees). The candidates for these programs
are rare commodities within the Government, have high existing work loads, and
are difficult to replace, even on a temporary basis.



- 12 -
*     TA can only be successful where there are counterparts detailed specifically to
benefit from it. Moreover, the effectiveness of technical assistance is dependent
on both quality of the TA and the relationships between the technical advisors and
the Borrower officials as counterparts. Where these conditions are met, long-term
TA in a highly capacity constrained country can have positive effects.



PART H - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
Assessment        Substantial     Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Categories
Macroeconomic Policies                                                    X
Sector Policies             X
Financial Objectives                                                      X
Institutional               X
development
Physical objectives                                                       X
Gender concerns                           X
Other social objectives     X
Environmental                                                             X
Public sector                                                             X
management
Private sector                                                            X
development
Other: Human Capacity                     X
Building
B. Project Sustainability
Likely                    Uncertain         |          Unlikely
x
C. Bank Performance
Stage of Project  [ Highly Satisfactory |    Satisfactory    [   Deficient
Cycle
Identification                                   X
Preparation                                      X
Appraisal                                        X
Supervision                                      X



-14-
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly        Satisfactory     Marginally     Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                   Unsatisfactory
I   x       I                I               I
Table 2: Related Bank Credits and Loans
Preceding Operations
Title                Health and Nutrition Project
Credit no.          : 1989-MOZ
Year of approval     FY89
Amount               SDR 21.0 million
Purpose             : To improve the health and nutrition status of the Mozambican people
through (i) policy formulation and management strengthening, and (ii) improving the efficiency
and quality of services.
Status              : closed
Title               : Legal and Public Sector Capacity Building
Credit no.          : 2437-MOZ
Year of approval    : FY93
Amount              : SDR 10.9 million
Purpose             : To build and maintain capacity in key public institutions and skill areas
by expanding the supply of well-trained senior planners, policy analysts, managers, and
technicians, and by enhancing pay and other incentives and conditions of employment for senior
civil servants, by (a) strengthening legal institutions and professional capabilities, and (b)
developing public administration and management skills and enhancing civil service personnel
systems.
Status              : ongoing
Title               : Capacity Building: Human Resources Development
Credit no.          : 2436-MOZ
Year of approval    : FY93
Amount              : SDR 34.1 million
Purpose             : To build and maintain capacity in key public institutions and skill areas
by expanding the supply of well-trained senior planners, policy analysts, managers, and
technicians, and by enhancing pay and other incentives and conditions of employment for senior
civil servants, by (a) increasing the quantity and improving the quality of university graduates and
strengthening UEM's role as a participant in the development policy dialogue, and (b) improving
learning achievement in upper secondary education so as to eliminate the need for remedial
training at the University or in the workplace.
Status              : ongoing



- 15 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle    [     Date planned         1    Date actual/estimate
Identification                                                       7/91
Preparation                                                          10/91
Appraisal                              2/1992                        5/9/92
Negotiations                           1/1993                       3/23/93
Board presentation                     9/1992                       4/27/93
Signing                                5/3/93                       5/3/93
Effectiveness                          6/1993                      2/25/1994
Project completion                     2/28/98                      6/30/99
Credit closing                        02/28/98                      12/31/98
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.
Not available
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
[FY93 [FY94 I FY95 ] FY96 I FY97 [FY98 [ FY99
Appraisal estimate        0.8    2.7    4.6    5.9    6.4    6.6    6.6
Actual                    0.0    0.0    1.6    1.98    2.95    3.89    4.47
Actual as % of estimate   0.0    0.0    34.8   33.6   46.1   58.9   67.7
Date of final disbursement                     04/16/99
Source: Bank MIS and staff estimates.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in the               Comments
project files+
Analysis and dissemination of poverty and  Activities towards this end completed
food security information
Start up integrated food security and  Activity begun and not completed.
poverty database
Organize two national conferences on food  A national conference on the findings of
security and hold workshops at the     the Poverty Assessment was held in
provincial and local levels            November 1998; a major seminar on
food security took place in November
1997. Numerous smaller conferences
and workshops were held through the
project period.



- 16 -
Implementation of national training and  UEM has become the focal point for pre-
research program on food security        service training and research on poverty
and food security issues. In-service
training took place under the project but
no formal program was established.
+ The preparation of the project's SAR took place before the development of these indicators had become
part of the appraisal process. The project was retrofitted with the above indicators ofproject
implementation.
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable. The preparation of the project's SAR took place before the development
of these indicators had become part of the appraisal process. The project was retrofitted
with the above indicators of project implementation, but no indicators of project
operation were included.



- 17 -
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                                     Purpose
Strategy for Povertv Reduction in     To help establish priorities for poverty reduction
Mozambique
Evaluation of the Social Protection   To create a basis of information on which to build a
Networks in Mozambique                more detailed document that will contribute to the
evaluation of the causes of poverty in Mozambique
Living Standards and Poverty in Rural  To formulate a medium term strategy to reduce
Mozambique (Report in support of the  poverty
Strategy)
Evaluation of the Impact of the GAPVU  To evaluate: a) the characteristics of recipient families
program                               of GAPVU; b) the impact of the subsidy on diet; c) the
projected costs of the program
Food Security and Nutrition Action Plan    To foster a broader discussion on food security and
nutrition.
Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) -  To evaluate the SDA project and its impact.
Final Project Evaluation Report
Rural Poverty Profile                 To evaluate rural poverty particularly the most
vulnerable groups as a basis for policy formulation
Study of the Informal Sector in       Background paper
Mozambique
ENFOQUE (nos. 1 to 7)                 Six-monthly bulletin on poverty-related matters
Formal Social Protection Networks -   To evaluate formal social protection networks
Evaluation Report
Food Security and Nutrition Strategy  Policy document adopted by the Government
Understanding Poverty and Well-being in   Mozambique's poverty assessment, based largely on
Mozambique - The First National      the findings of the household survey.
Assessment
Source: Bank and borrower files



- 18 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Item                   Appraisal Estimate (USSmm)                Estimated Actual Costs (US$mm) 9/
Local      Foreign costs      Total          Local         Foreign         Total
Costs                         costs          costs          costs          Costs
Technical Assistance
1. Foreign Consultants       0.1            1.4            1.7            0.4                    _
2. Local Consultants         0.3            0.1            0.4            0.3
Subtotal                       0.4             1.7           2.1I           0.7
Fellowships                                                                                       _
1. Long-term                  0.0            0.5            0.5            0.7
2. Short-term                 0.0            0.1            0.1            0.0
Subtotal                       0.0            0.6            0.6            0.7
Subtot. TA and Fllwshps        0.4            2.3            2.7             1.4           2.1             3.5
Training                                                                                          _
1. Local                      0.8            0.4            1.2            0.3
2. Study Tours                0.0            0.1            0.1            0.0            0.2
Subtotal Training 1 and 2      0.8            0.5            1.3            0.3            0.2            0.5
3. University                 0.1            1.0            1.1            0.0            1.0
Subtotall,2and3                0.9            1.5            2.4            0.3             1.2           1.5
Salaries/Per Diem              0.1            0.0            0.1            0.1            0.0            0.1
Studies                        0.0            0.4            0.4            0.0
Research Funds           |           I  T      o,
Vehicles                                                _ 0.0          _      _0.2  _ _0.2  0.1           0.1
Equip/Materials/Supplies       0.1            0.6                                            7            0.9
Total Invest. Costs     1.6            5.0           6.6             2.1            4.0            6.1
Operation & Maintenance        0.1            0.2      |     0.3
Supplies & Materials           0.1            0.1       r    0.2       __
Total Recurrent costs      0.2            0.3            0.5
Base Cost                       1.8           5.2            7.1                           4.0
Physical Contingencies         0.1            0.4            0.5       _                           _
Price Contingencies            0.2            0.4            0.6
Total Cost                     2.1            6.1            8.2            2.1            4.0            6.1
Source: Bank MIS and staff estimates.



- 19-
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                Appraisal estimate                         Actual/latest estimate
Local        Foreign         Total         Local         Foreign         Total
costs         costs          Costs         costs          costs          costs
IDA                 1.6            4.7           6.3                          4.0
Save the            0.3            0.2           0.5
Children
FAO                 0.0            1.0           1.0
ODA
Government          0.2            0.2           0.4
Table 9 Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable. Not economic rate of return could usefully be calculated for this project.
Nevertheless, it is clear the project focused on areas of prudent investment: institutional capacity
building for poverty alleviation.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement/        Covenant    Status    Covenant Description and                      Comments
Section           Type                            Comments
DCA, 2.02 (b)         02           C      Establishment of a project Special
Account
DCA, 3.01 (b)       10, 11         C      The borrower shall cause CNP to
and (c)                                conclude an Implementation
Agreement with both EMU and CFA
under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association
DCA, 3.01 (e)         10           C      The borrower shall carry out the
project in accordance with
Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement:
Schedule 4 para. 3:the borrower shall
appoint an Administrative Officer
DCA, 3.01 (e)      10,05,12        CD     Borrower shall carry outproject in    The borrower heldthe firstFood
accordance with Implementation    Security Conference in November
Prog. Set forth in Schedule 4 to this   1997 and the second in October
Agreement. Schedule 4, para. 6    1998
states that the borrower will hold no
later than 12/94 the lst Food Security
National Conference and the 2nd
12/96



-20 -
DCA, 3.01 (e)       10, 05        CD     Borrower shall carry out project in
accordance with Implementation
Prog. Set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement. Schedule 4 para. 7 states
that the borrower shall staff the PAU
with at least 5 local technical and
professional staff by 12/31/94
DCA, 3.01 (e)      10, 05, 12     NC     Borrower shall carry out the project   Given the problematic nature of
in accordance with Implementation    this component no training took
Prog. Set forth in Schedule 4 to this   place
Agreement. Schedule 4 para. 8 states
that the borrower shall cause CFA to
complete 6 training modules by
7/30/94 and complete training by
12/31194
DCA, 3.01 (e)      10, 05, 12     NC     Borrower shall carry out the project   A research protocol was not
in accordance with Implementation    completed since the faculty at
Prog. Set forth in Schedule 4 to this   EMU and Bank staff agreed that a
Agreement. Schedule 4 para. 9 states  more flexible research program
that the borrower shall by 7/30/94  would achieve the outcome of
cause EMU to prepare and submit to   needs driven research better.
the Association a detailed research
protocol
DCA, 3.01 (a)(2)     05, 10         C      Borrower shall cause the PAU to
submit to the Association draft
annual work plans no later than
November 30 of every year
DCA, 3.04         05, 10         C      The borrower shall cause CTP to
assign representatives of relevant
Ministries and Agencies to
participate in an intersectoral
working group which would advise
PAU
DCA, 3.05 (a)       09, 10        CD     Borrower shall no later than July 31s, Mid-term review tookplace
and (b)                               1995, conductjointly with the     7/15/97
Association, a project
Implementation mid-term review and
fumish one month prior an evaluation
report
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                Describe and coninent on lack of compliance
I 2          None
2.
3 .



- 21 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned         L          Actual
Stage of  i   Weeks         US$          Weeks         US$
project cycle [ 
Preparation       ..           ..           22.5          41.9
to appraisal
Appraisal         ..           ..           20.3          40.4
Negotiations                                 3.8           8.8
through
Board
approval
Supervision      84.0         194.4         120.5        209.2
Completion
Source: Project Files and Bank staff estimates.
Not available
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project    Month   Number    Days    Specialized   Performance              Types of
cycle         /Year       of      in field    staff skills   rating          problems/ Notes
persons             represented           D
IP     DO
Through appraisal
Identification    10/91
Preappraisal   3/92       3         15      a, b, b       NA      NA
Appraisal throuigh
Board approval
Appraisal   5/92        5         13      a, b, d, e, e    NA   NA
Supervision                                                            I
Supervision 1    3/94      1          5       a,            NA     NA       Project just effective
Supervision 2    9/94      3          8       a, b, f                      Financial, local staffing
Supervision 3    2/95      1          5       f.             S      S      Implementation delays
Supervision 4    6/96      2         14      b, f            S      S      Implementation delays
Supervision 5    2/97      1          7       A              S      S      Slow disbursement, in-
service training
Supervision 6    7/97      2         15       a, f           S      S        In-service training
Mid-term review
Supervision 7    4/98      2          5       f, c           S      S      Implementation delays,
in-service training
Supervision 8   11/98      3          5       c, f, b.       S       S       In-service training
Completion    4/99       2          5       c, f           S       S
Legend of skills: a.= Food Security specialist, b.= poverty specialist, c.=
macroeconomist, d.= training specialist, e.= evaluation specialist, f.= operations analyst
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.



Appendix A
AIDE MEMOIRE
FOOD SECURITY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(Credit 2487-MOZ)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
1.    A mission consisting of Jehan Arulpragasam (Task Manager) and Jocelyn Mason
(Consultant) visited Mozambique from February 15th to March 12th, 1999, during which
they undertook the Implementation Completion Mission of the Food Security Capacity
Building Project. The mission wishes to thank the Ministry of Planning and Finance
officials, particularly the Director of Budget and the Head of DPDS, officials at Eduardo
Mondlane University, at the Centro de Forma,co Agraria, and at the Instituto Nacional de
Estatistica, as well as the consultants and other non-government individuals who assisted
in this mission. A list of people met is attached to this Aide Memoire.
2.    This Aide Memoire is to be included in the ICR as an annex. As agreed, the
Ministry will provide the Bank with the ICR tables. In addition, the Ministry has agreed
to furnish the Bank with its own evaluation report of the project, which will be included
in the ICR as an annex. Shortly after the return of the Bank mission to Washington, the
mission will send a copy of the draft ICR to the Government informally for information.
It is expected that all documentation relating to the ICR be completed and delivered to
the Bank by March 26t.  Following formal review of the draft ICR by Bank
management, the draft will be sent to the Government for formal comment. These
comments will also be included in the ICR as an annex.
3.    The credit closed on December 31, 1998, a year after the estimated closing date at
appraisal. Of the credit amount of SDR 4,600,000, SDR 2,800,000 or 60 percent was
disbursed. The additional funds available were not used mainly because significant
pieces of in-service training, specifically the CFA component and the Masters programs
abroad, were never completed.
4.    Final payment of the balance of the IFPRI contracts remains outstanding. Now
that the question of sufficient funds within the Bank administered part of the contract has
been resolved, the mission urges the Ministry to resubmit a request for payment as
agreed. In addition, the possible retroactive amendment of the contract discussed with
IFPRI will need to be acted upon promptly. Action on this is necessary immediately, as
the final date for completing disbursements from this credit is April 30, 1999. The
mission stands ready to assist in expediting these actions.
5.    The mission wishes to thank the Government for inviting the mission to take part
in its evaluation seminar. During this seminar, the mission received a draft of the
Government's evaluation report, with which it largely concurs.  The project was
successful in achieving its overall objective of raising the level of food security and
poverty awareness, laying out the basis for developing a poverty reduction strategy,
putting into place institutional focal points for poverty and food security policy



2                          Appendix A
development, and developing a research and training program on poverty and food
security issues at the university level. The Department of Population and Social
Development (DPDS) at the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MOPF), with the support
of the project, is undertaking policy development and analysis functions in close
coordination with other government and non-govemment institutions, and is in a position
to influence Government policy in favor of poverty alleviation. With support from the
project, the Government has completed a number of key pieces of analytical work
towards orienting Government policy, including a Food Security Strategy, a Population
Policy, and a Poverty Assessment. This work involved undertaking a national household
survey and its analysis, a participatory poverty assessment, as well as other background
survey and analytical work.  A small cadre of local staff have benefited from
considerable technical training and experience.
6.    The mission welcomed the Government's plans to continue the work begun under
the project, specifically by completing a Poverty Action Plan as a follow up to the
Poverty Assessment.  The mission agrees with DPDS that severe poverty is so
widespread in Mozambique that targeted social programs alone are inadequate to reduce
it. It therefore supports the Government's intention to mainstream poverty reduction
through its sector programs, and commends the decision to include DPDS staff into the
Medium Term Expenditure Framework process as a means of achieving this. It also
commends the Government's creation of coordinating group on poverty, including
representatives from the ministries involved as well as representatives from civil society.
7.    The mission would also like to thank the Government for the copy of the Poverty
Assessment, which resulted from the work supported from the project. It urges the
Ministry to consider broader dissemination of this document, in light of its importance to
the donor community as they attempt to target resources on poverty reduction.
...................................          ...................................
Vit6ria Ginja                               Jehan Arulpragasam
Chefe                                       Economist
Department of Population and                Macroeconomic Division 1
Social Development                          Africa Region
Ministry of Planning and Finance            World Bank
Republic of Mozambique
Date: ................                Date:.



3                          Appendix A
FOOD SECURITY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(Credit 2487 - MOZ)
IMPLMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
List of People Met
Ministry of Planning and Finance
Dra. lolanda Fortes
Dra. Vitoria Ginj a
Dra. Paula Langa
Mr. Jossias Machava
Eduardo Mondlane University
Prof. Firmino Mucavele
Centro de FormaSio Agrairia
Dr. Alcino Fabiao
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
Dra. Julia Yassanga
Instituto Nacional de Estatistica
Dr. Crist6vao Mecalio
Bank of Mozambique
Dr. Miguel Arcanjo
IFPRI
Dr. Ashu Handa
Dr. Ken Simler
Consultants
Mr. lain MacDonald
World Bank
Dra. Maria Nita Dengo
Dr. Daniel Sousa
Mr. James Coates



Appendix B
Borrower's Evaluation Report - DPDS
Translatedfrom the Portuguese by the World Bank
FOOD SECURITY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(FSCBP)
FINAL EVALUATION
INTRODUCTION
Credit Agreement 2487-MOZ to finance the Food Security Capacity
Building Project officially closed in December 1998. The agreement was signed
in 1993 between the Government of the Republic of Mozambique and the
International Development Association (World Bank). In November 1997, a
request was submitted to extend the original closing date, the start of project
implementation having been delayed by six months.
The project became effective in February 1994, and was coordinated by
the Ministry of Planning and Finance (National Directorate of Planning and
Budgeting, the Direc,do Nacional do Plano e Orcamento - DNPO) through the
present Department of Population and Social Development (Departamento de
Popula,co e Desenvolvimiento Social - DPDS).
The project had three principal objectives:
*  Establish an institutional focal point for food security policy
development and coordination of implementation strategies.
  Improve understanding of food security issues and responses among
decision-makers and technical staff of the relevant institutions.
*  Incorporate food security content into university education programs,
while also providing incentives for the conduct of food security-related
research.
The main institutions receiving project funding were:
* The Department of Population and Social Development of the
Ministry of Planning and Finance, responsible for overall project
coordination and implementation of the policy coordination and
development component.



2                          Appendix B
*  The Agricultural Training Center (Centro de Formaqdo Agraria) of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, responsible for
implementing the in-service training program.
* The School of Agronomy and Forestry Engineering (Faculdade de
Agronomia e Engenharia Florestal) of Eduardo Mondlane University,
responsible for implementing the academic pre-service training
component.
In addition to the funding for these institutions with a direct
involvement in project implementation, project funds were also provided for other
institutions playing a supporting role in the execution of food security policies, for
example:
* The National Institute of Statistics (Instituto Nacional de Estatistica),
responsible for providing statistical information on household living
conditions.
EVALUATION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Following is a description of the principal activities carried out in
connection with the three project components. Coverage of each component is
divided into the following sections: (i) activities performed,  (ii) overall
assessment/criticisms, and (iii) lessons leamed and recommendations.
2.1 COORDINATION AND POLICY DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
The Coordination and Policy Development Component was implemented
by the Department of Population and Social Development from 1995 onwards.
The main objective of this component was to strengthen the technical capacity of
the DPDS (formerly the Poverty Alleviation Unit - PAU) through the hiring of
personnel and the acquisition of equipment and other resources necessary to
monitor actions and formulate policies in the area of poverty and food security.
2.1.1 Activities performed
With respect to overall project coordination, a Financial Administrative
Assistant was recruited to help manage the project funds (deriving both from the
credit and from investment). All of the funds were managed by the DPDS, which
was responsible for making payments and procuring supplies for all the project
components in accordance with an activities plan that had already been prepared
and approved. Disbursements always took place in line with the procedures
specified in the Credit Agreement.



3                          Appendix B
On the institutional side, the technical capacities and material resources of
DNPO-DPDS were strengthened through the recruitment and hiring of two
Mozambican senior technical staff, who received in-service training in food
security and poverty issues either in Mozambique or abroad. Two Eduardo
Mondlane University students with training in food security and nutrition are in
process of joining the institution.
With respect to policy development, the DPDS sponsored a number of
studies and the formulation of strategies and proposals for program development
and revision. These activities comprised:
-     Poverty Reduction Strategy and subsidiary documents
-     Impact Assessment of the GAPVU Program
-     Assessment of Formal Social Protection Networks
-     Informal Social Protection Mechanisms
The activities in connection with this component culminated in 1998 with
the Mozambique Poverty Assessment. This study contained a number of specific
chapters covering poverty estimates, profiles and determining factors, human
resource development, and social protection networks. The poverty assessment
was carried out with the full participation of students and faculty from the School
of Agronomy and, in some cases, Ministry of Health technicians.
A database and access network was set up at the DPDS with information
for future poverty status monitoring. The database contains information gathered
from the population, health, nutrition, education, and food security sectors. Those
data and the results of the studies were made available to the public in the six-
monthly bulletin ENFOQUE. Since its creation in 1996, there have been seven
issues of this publication (including one special edition).
The Intersectoral Food Security and Nutrition Group (Grupo Intersectorial
de Seguranga Alimentar e Nutrigdo), established in 1997 under DPDS leadership,
was involved in development of the Food Security and Nutrition Strategy and
supporting documents.
A specialized bibliography was acquired, leading to the creation of a
library at the National Directorate of Planning and Budgeting.
2.1.2 Overall assessment
The objectives of this component were satisfactorily accomplished. With
the creation of the Department of Population and Social Development (the former
PAU) at the Ministry of Planning and Finance, new analytical capacities became
available to evaluate development policies at the micro level.



4                            Appendix B
The research undertaken for the poverty assessment was the Department's
first experiment in collaborative activity, as was the work of preparing the Food
Security and Nutrition Strategy, a fact that should guarantee the existence of a
favorable technical environment for implementing intersectoral policies and
programs.
The Department encountered certain difficulties in implementing some of
the project activities, in particular in the case of the poverty assessment. Those
obstacles were chiefly due to the following circumstances:
*  Collaboration with other sectors did not come about as planned, since
those sectors had problems of their own. The University, through its
School of Agronomy, was the only institution that collaborated right
from the start of the activities.
*  The members of the Department's technical staff, given their already
demanding workload, were not available to devote themselves full
time to the project as originally planned. This resulted in somewhat
diluted absorption of the expertise offered by the consultants from the
International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI).
2.1.3 Lessons learned and recommendations
The experience of building analytical capacities showed that this can
produce sustainable results, provided there is substantial collaboration with
educational institutions (particularly at the university level).
Research work demands a time commitment, which means having full-
time technicians and adequate resources for this type of activity.
Intersectoral collaboration seems to be particularly important in the area of
research, particularly with the University, since this makes it possible to
rationalize resources:  the University can contribute students to gather and
subsequently analyze data, with the advantage that they will be more impartial in
their evaluation, not being influenced by professional conventions.
It is essential to continue the process of building analytical capacities,
including at the provincial level.
For projects with several different components, a centralized system of
financial management does not seem advisable, since this can delay the
implementation of certain activities. Funds should be made available for each
component and their management supervised by means of financial reports and
regular audits.



5                           Appendix B
2.2 IN-SERVICE TRAINING
The in-service training component was implemented by the Agricultural
Training Center (CFA) between 1995 and 1997. The main objective of this
component was to sensitize government and NGO professionals to food security
as a step towards building institutional capacities to formulate food security
policies. Specific objectives of this component were: (a) creation of a solid team
of trainers at the central and provincial levels to teach food security issues, (ii)
development of teaching materials for use in course work by trainers and other
target groups in general, both at the CFA and at its provincial affiliates (CPFAs),
and (iii) incorporation of food security modules into traditional CFA and CPFA
courses.
2.2.1 Activities performed
In 1994, the first coordinator of this component was trained by the British
Institute of Development Studies. The plan to have two other technicians also
trained by a consultant from that Institute had to be scrapped owing to the
tightness of the consultant's schedule. The option was to send two technicians to
the Pan-African Institute for Development East Africa Kabwe in Zambia.
Another four technicians took part in the regional Food Security and Nutrition
Course held at Eduardo Mondlane University.
In 1995, 17 provincial trainers were trained in food security concepts,
indicators, and programs. In 1996, those trainers trained some 123 technical staff
in food security concepts at the CPFAs, and 108 technical staff were trained in
1997.
The courses came to an end in 1997 when the World Bank suspended
financing for the Agricultural Training Center.
In terms of training materials, the following five food security-related
modules were developed in 1995:
1 .    Food Security Concepts
2.    Food Security Indicators
3 .    Identification of Vulnerable Groups and Support Mechanisms
4.    Food Storage and Processing
5.    Self-employment/Generation of Sources of Income.
In addition to specific courses on food security, these issues were also
incorporated into the CFA's traditional courses.



6                           Appendix B
2.2.2 Overall assessment
The objectives of this component were only partially accomplished, owing
basically to the following factors:
*  The constant changes of component coordinator affected the continuity
of the project's original food security training philosophy.
*  Dependence on external consultants in developing the food security
and nutrition modules and training CFA technicians, over the period
1994-1996.
*  Lack of food security specialists at the institution.
*  Change of philosophy at the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries in
1994: this resulted in hampering project implementation, since it was a
provision of the implementation agreement that the CFA would
contribute logistical and administrative support to this component.
*  Suspension of financing of the project activities by the World Bank in
July 1997.
Throughout this period, six-monthly reviews of the in-service training
component were carried out by the World Bank and the DPDS, but their progress
was hampered by the CFA's logistical and administrative difficulties.
2.2.3 Lessons learned and recommendations
The project made it possible to create a solid team of trainers at the central
level to teach food security and nutrition issues, but at the provincial level the
teams still need to be consolidated.
Partnership or subcontracting with the University will help fill the gaps
affecting the institution in terms of preparing specialized teaching materials and
keeping trainers abreast of the latest advances.
It is important to set aside sufficient time to prepare the teaching materials
and create a specialized library, preferably before the courses begin.
Care must be taken to train provincial trainers and provide them with
regular refresher courses, and to supply the relevant bibliography.
2.3 PRE-SERVICE TRAINING
The pre-service component was implemented by the School of Agronomy
and Forestry Engineering between 1996 and 1998. The principal objective of this



7                            Appendix B
component was to help the School of Agronomy to strengthen its capacity to
teach food security issues, to develop agricultural food policy curricula and
research agendas, and to manage natural resources.
2.3.1 Activities performed
This was one of the components that made a late start on its activities,
partly because there was a change of coordinator, and it was also necessary to
recruit and hire foreign specialists and to procure equipment, all of which took up
an entire year.
During the period of the project, the following activities were carried out
within this component:
*  Four food security instructors, selected from among students who
were finalists for posts as faculty assistants in the area of food security
and nutrition.
*  Offering of a postgraduate course in food security and nutrition for
local and foreign technical staff (Southern African Development
Community - SADC).
*  Supervision of degree theses/research papers in collaboration with the
Ministry of Planning and Finance.
*  Curriculum revision to include food security-related subjects.
*  Organization of the Food Security Conference to disseminate the
results of the research.
2.3.1 Overall assessment
The objectives of this project component were satisfactorily achieved,
despite the fact that the project's duration was curtailed to three years, a rather
short space of time in which to accomplish an institutional capacity building
effort.
It was not possible to exchange experiences with other establishments of
higher learning abroad or to provide postgraduate training for some of the
instructors in this field.
2.3.2 Lessons learned and recommendations
Partnership with institutions in the employment sector enabled students to
handle thesis topics that were relevant and responsive to the needs and concerns
of the various decision-makers.



8                           Appendix B
The hiring of students as assistants was a way of creating a sustainable
system of instruction in the area of food security and nutrition.
SUPPORT INSTITUTIONS WILL SUPPLEMENT FOOD SECURITY ACTIONS
AND POLICIES
The National Institute of Statistics played a fundamental supporting role
by providing statistical data on household living conditions that served as a basis
for a large number of studies and for poverty status research activities.
3.1 Activities performed
In 1995, the central team was formed, comprising six members: an
adviser, a coordinator, a systems analyst, two technical staff, and a secretary.
This team launched the preparatory study for the National Survey of Household
Living Conditions  (Inquerito Nacional aos Agregados Familiares sobre
Condifes de Vida - IAF). For this purpose, training was provided for 11
supervisors, 35 interviewers, 11 anthropometrists and 11 keyboard operators for
all the provinces. It was this team that gathered and processed data at the national
level.
3.2   Overall assessment
The objectives of the LAF were achieved. The field work was carried out
successfully, with good supervision. The supervisors were well trained, and the
training period for all of the field personnel was adequate. The most serious
obstacle arose in connection with processing of the data, because the timing of
this activity coincided with certain other important operations being handled by
the institution (in particular the population census), which consumed much of the
time of the technical staff assigned to the IAF.
The delay in preparation of the final report was due both to the lack of a
full-time programmer to clean the data and to the shortfall in replenishment of the
IAF account, which made it necessary to extend the field work for another two
months.
3.3   Lessons learned and recommendations
For future surveys, it is recommended that a full-time programmer be
hired as well as a consultant.
The team selected to carry out the survey should stay with this exercise
until its completion.



9                          Appendix B
FINAL ASSESSMENT
The assessment of project performance should be regarded as positive.
Using as an evaluation tool the monitoring indicators contained in the project
document, the following results may be identified:
1.    Coordination and Policy Development
(a)   Four Mozambican professionals were hired.  While the project had
originally made provision for the recruitment of foreign consultants, the
institution opted instead for local individuals, because of their familiarity
with the Mozambican environment.
(b)   The long-term study fellowships were not used because the candidates had
no time available. Thanks to the short-term fellowships, members of the
Department's technical staff received training at the International Food
Policy Research Institute in 1997, but it was not possible to send faculty
from the School of Agronomy, once again because of overlapping
schedules.
(c/d)  The work plans for the different components were submitted to the World
Bank each year, and the mid-term project evaluation was also sent in.
(e/f)  The database was created, although with some delay.
2.    In-service food security training
(a)   An intersectoral working group was created to participate in development
of the Food Security Strategy and in the holding of special seminars. The
only event that took place was one Food Security Conference in 1998,
when the findings of the joint Ministry of Planning and Finance/Eduardo
Mondlane University research project were presented.
(b)   The regional visits to exchange experiences did not materialize.
(c/d)  The training modules for the CFA were only partially developed, and only
a few of the trainers from that institution received study fellowships.
(e/f)  Courses were held to train trainers, and provincial training continued in
effect until the project was suspended in 1997.
3.    Pre-service training
(a)   Lecturers were hired to introduce food security topics into the university
curricula.



10                           Appendix B
(b)   Instructors at the College received no study fellowships.
(c)   Equipment and bibliography were procured for the College of Agriculture.
(d/e) The research agenda was prepared, and the research work began in
partnership with the Ministry of Planning and Finance.
4.    Qualitative evaluation
Qualitative evaluations of the project were carried out by the World
Bank's supervision missions.
To sum up, the project objectives were accomplished and a national
research capacity was created both in the government institutions and in
educational establishments. This may be termed a sustainable result, because
continuation of the activities is guaranteed, even after the project's closing date.
Maputo, February 20, 1999



APPENDIX C
AO UNIVERSIDADE EDUARDO MONDLANE
FACULDADE DE AGRONOMIA E ENGENHARIA FLORESTAL
FOOD SECURITY CAPACITY BULDING PROJECT
PRE-UNIVERSITY CAPACITY BUILDING
COMPONENT
WORLD BANK CREDIT 2487 - MOZ
EVALUATION REPORT
February, 19"



1. INTRODUCTION
The Food Security and Nutrition Project at the faculty of Agronomy started in May
of 1996. A contract was signed between the Faculty and the International Food
Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) which supplies two research technicians and two
assistants. The faculty of Agronomy at the Eduardo Mondlane University provides
two professors, two assistants and one Nutritionist from the University of
Edinburgh currently in service at FAFE. Therefore, the team is composed by:
1- Prof. Firmino G. Mucavele - co-ordinator of the project, professor
Of the FAFE, PhD in Food and Resource Economics.
2- Prof. Gilead I. Mlay - Professor of the FAFE, PhD in Agricultural
Economics.
3- Dr. Ashu Handa - Research Fellow, IFPRI manager of the project, PhD
in Agricultural Economics
4- Dr. Jan Low - Research Fellow, IFPRL PhD in Agricultural
Economics
5- Mrs. Patricia J. Mucavele - Research Fellow, University of Edinburgh,
MSc. in Clinical Nutrition
6- Mr. Emilio TostAo - Teaching Assistant, FAFE, Bsc (hon.) in
Agronomy
7- Mr. JoAo Mutondo - Teaching Assistant, FAFE, Bsc (hon.) in
Agronomy
8- Ms Farizana Omar - Research Assistant, FAFE, Bsc (hon.) in
Agronomy
9- Ms Cristina Matusse - Research Assistant, FAFE, Bsc (hon.) in
Agronomy
This report is an evaluation of activities performed by the faculty of Agronomy
and Forestry Engineering of the Eduardo Mondlane University during the last three
years.
2. THE OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT
The objectives of the project were to:
1. Assist in curricula strengthening, create the capacity to teach issues
related to the concepts of food security and natu   resource
m    ement, which would lead to the establishment of a Master degree
course in the Faculty of Agronomy and ForestryEngieering
I



2.   Strengthen capacity for undertaking policy research in food, agriculture
and natural resource policy;
3.   assist in developing a data base that will support the above research
agenda and the process of defining policy options to address the food
security problems of the country; and
4.   help establish the institutional co-operation with overseas universities
and food policy research institutions, to design and manage faculty
exchange program with selected universities and LFPRI.
Objectivel: Strengthening of Curricula and Establishment of MSc. Program
This objective was achieved. All the curricula are revised and issues on food
security and nutrition are part of training at the Faculty of Agronomy and Forestry
Engineering (FAFE). The revision included de subjects of Introduction to
Agriculture, Introduction to Economics, Agrarian Economy of Mozambique,
Microeconomics, Production Economics and Farm Management Economics.
A new teaching format was introduced which included participation of students in
the professional seminars, preparation of reports and review of scientific journals.
Speakers were invited to classes and students participated into the policy
formulation framework of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries.
Twenty eight students were involved into the student food policy research guided
to the "Trabalho de Licenciatura". Among these, Prof. Firmino G. Mucavele
supervised ten students, Prof Gilead I. Mlay supervised eleven students, Dr. Ashu
Handa supervised three students and Dr. Jan Low supervised three students. Four
Students already concluded their research and they were supervised by Prof.
Firmino G. Mucavele, Prof Gilead Mlay, Dr. Jan Low and Dr. Ashu Handa The
rest of students are expected to finalise their research by June 1999.
Besides Licenciatura courses, three in-service training courses were given to
professionals of Non-Govenment Organizations and Miistries. Two Post-
graduate courses on Formulation andAnalysis of Food Security and Nutrition
Policies and Strategies were provided is 1997 and 1998 with collaboration of
IFPRI and SADC.
2



A Master program proposal was submitted to the Scientific council to be analyzed
and eventually approved.
Objective 2: Strengthen capacity for undertaking policy research in food,
agriculture and natural resource policy
This objective is fulfilled in part. Some capacity was established and research is
undergoing right now. Forty two students were involved into the food security and
nutrition research programs, from which twenty eight were in dissertation work.
Six teaching staff members are currently holding research on issues of food policy,
agriculture and natural resources.
The research activities were divided into four areas namely:
Household food security issues including nutrition and gender issues;
-    Rural markets and pricing policies;
-    Poverty and land tenure issues;
-    iEvaluation of famning systems and their effect on household food
security.
It is important to notice that three years are not enough to create a full capacity to
design, run and evaluate food security and nutrition programs. There is a need to
continue with the project
The conference on Food Security and Nutrition was held on 16h and 19th of
October 1998. This conference was organised by Project staff and provided
additional training for a recent FAFE graduate in conference organisation and
management. The following topics were presented in the conference:
-    Food Security and Nutrition in Mozambique: Challenges and
Perspectives;
-    Poverty Estimates & its Determinants in Mozambique
-    Human Capital and Social Welfare in Mozambique
-    Food Security in Mozambique: A Comparison of Urban and Rural
Areas
-    Seasonality and Food Consumption among Mozambican Households
-    Influence of Agro-ecological Zones and Access to Services on Food
Security and Nutrition in Mozambique
-    Informal Mechanisms of Mutual Help and Social Protection: A Case
Study from Gaza and Nampula Provinces and Maputo City
3



Objective 3: Development of a data base
This activity was initiated but not performed as we would like to due to the lack of
funds. Most of the requests are still to be satisfied. Some data base is current
spread among computer hardware at the Faculty. The network was not possible to
establish.
Objective 4: Institutional co-operation
Institutional co-operation in the country and in the region was established and
constitute the strongest point of the project at the moment. The FAFE and the
Ministry of Planning and Finance had a continuous collaboration on the following
activities:
-    formulation of the food security and nutrition policies and strategies;
-    poverty analysis;
-    Analysis of the district food security and nutrition profiles.
Overseas co-operation was not possible due to the reduced funds available. Only it
was possible the contract with IFPRI and a visit to the University of Florida.
3. STRENGTHS OF THE PROJECT
The major strength of the project reside in the curricula developed and institutional
linkages established in the country and in the region. A post-graduate course on
formulation and analysis of food security and nutrition policies and strategies is
established for Mozambicans and for SADC countries. This fact was recognized by
the SADC Food Security Sector Co-ordination based in Harare.
The project created a material condition under which, food security and nutrition
activities will continue.
In summary, the strengths of the project include:
the recuitment and training of the four Mozambican assistants which
will give continuity of the project;
a solid team able to formulate, implement and evaluate research
proposals on food security and nutrition policies;
updated material ready for teaching in Portuguese and in English for
undergraduate and post-graduate level;
linkages with govemment institutions and non-government
organisations for collaborative research on food, agriculture and
natural resources;
4



existing database and capacity to collect, compute and analyse data on
food, agriculture and natural resources.
4. WEAKNESSES OF THE PROJECT
The linkage with overseas universities is still weak. The training of junior teaching
staff was not done due to the lack of funds.
The co-operation style based on 50% time allocation of the IFPRI staff was not
positive.
The Financial management based outside the project institutions cause delays and
"remote sensing" management proved to be inefficient.
In summary the weaknesses of the project are:
-    The time dimension of the project (three years) for institutional
capacity building is too short;
-    The financial management system is not efficient;
-    lack of finds to run day by day activities to maintain data base and
keep track of issues and problems related to poverty and food
insecurity in Mozambique;
-    linkage with principal researchers of IFPRI;
-    Institutional collaborative research linkages with the four universities
namely the University of Florida, the University of Comell, the
University of Wiscosin Madison and the University of Michigan;
-    the system of 50%/o staff assignment proved to be inefficient and
complex
5



