Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2487 MOZ
                   Development Credit Agreement
            (Food Security Capacity Building  Project)
                              between
                      REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 30, 1993
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2487 MOZ
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 30, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF
MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower has contracted from Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations Organization (FAO) a grant (the
FAO Grant) to assist in partially financing Part A of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the FAO Grant
Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and FAO; and
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from Save the Children
a grant (the Save the Children Grant) to assist in financing Part
B.4 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
Agreement (the Save the Children Grant Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and Save the Children.
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "CNP" means Comiss
o Nacional do Plano, the National
Planning Commission of the Borrower;
      (b)   "CTP" means Conselho Tecnico do Plano, the technical
advisory committee of CNP;
      (c)   "CFA" means Centro de Formacao Agraria, the Agricultural
Training Center of the Borrower;
      (d)   "EMU" means Eduardo Mondlane University of the Borrower;
      (e)   "Implementation Agreements" means the agreements
referred to in Section 3.01(b) and (c) of this Agreement;
      (f)   "MOH" means Ministry of Health of the Borrower;
      (g)   "PAU" means Unidade de Alivio 
 Pobreza, the Poverty
Alleviation Unit established by Despacho No. S/N, 93 of the Minister
of Planning of the Borrower;
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (i)   "fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which
runs from January 1 to December 31.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to four million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 4,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit;
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Page  3
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 1998, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date;
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum;
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15,
commencing August 15, 2003 and ending February 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount;
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification; and
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
Page  4
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A; B.1; and B.2
of the Project through CNP; Part B.3 of the Project through CFA;
Part C of the Project through EMU; and Part B.4 of the Project
through MOH, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and managerial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project;
      (b)   For the purpose of implementation of Part B.3 of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause CNP to conclude with CFA an
Implementation Agreement, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, specifying, inter alia, the rights and obligations
of CNP and CFA, the timetable to be followed and the scope of
activities to be undertaken;
      (c)   For the purpose of implementation of Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause CNP to conclude with EMU an
Implementation Agreement, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, specifying, inter alia, the rights and obligations
of CNP and EMU, the timetable to be followed and the scope of
activities to be undertaken;
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Implementation Agreements referred to in (b) and (c) above in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Agreements or
any of their provisions; and
      (e)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause PAU to prepare and
submit to the Association, for review and comments:
            (1)    the first draft workplan covering the period
                   from July 1, 1993, until December 31, 1994; and
            (2)    no later than November 30 of every year
                   thereafter, subsequent draft annual workplans.
                   The above-mentioned workplans shall, inter alia,
                   specify monitorable targets on implementation.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause PAU to implement the
recommendations made by the Association and arising out of the
reviews carried out.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, no later than December 31,
1993, cause CTP to assign representatives of relevant Ministries and
agencies to participate in an intersectoral working group, which
Page  5
would advise PAU in preparing the national food security conferences
and workshops referred to under Part B.1 of the Project.
      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, no later than July 31,
1995, conduct, jointly with the Association, a Project imple-
mentation mid-term review. The Review shall, inter alia, be targeted
to: (i) monitor progress in achieving Project objectives; (ii)
identify implementation issues and propose solutions; (iii) promote
exchange of ideas among staff involved in Project Implementation;
and (iv) update Project timetables, cost estimates and budget
requirements;
      (b)   No later than one month prior to the mid-term review
referred to in (a) above, the Borrower shall, through PAU, furnish
to the Association, for its comments, a report in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the
progress achieved in complying with Project implementation; and
      (c)   The Borrower shall, promptly thereafter, carry out the
recommendations emanating from the review.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than nine
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
Page  6
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   that the Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action concerning the Borrower's
food security sector, that would materially affect the ability of
the Borrower, CFA or EMU to perform any of their respective
obligations under this Agreement; and
      (b)   that as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which makes it improbable that the Borrower, CFA or EMU, as the case
may be, will be able to perform any of their respective obligations
under the Implementation Agreements.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   that the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty (30)
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
      (b)   that the event specified in Section 5.01 (b) of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60)
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the first workplan referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (i)
of this Agreement has been submitted to the Association;
      (b)   the Administrative Officer, with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association, referred to in paragraph
3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, has been appointed; and
      (c)   the Implementation Agreements referred to in Section
3.01 (b) and (c) of this Agreement have been signed.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions,
to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Association, namely, that the Implementation Agreements referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) and (c) of this Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified and are legally binding upon the parties in
accordance with their respective terms.
      Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
Page  7
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Governor of Bank of Mozambique is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Banco de Mocambique
            Departamento de Relacoes Internacionais
            Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
            Maputo
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MOBANCO                   6576/7 BMMO
                   Maputo
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                         By /s/ Eneas da Conceicao Comiche
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Stephen Denning M.
                             Acting Regional Vice President Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Consultants' Ser-        1,660,000        100%
      vices, fellowships,
      per diem, studies
      and audits
(2)   Training:
      (a)  under Part C        1,000,000        100%
           of the Project
           and
      (b)  under Parts A         860,000        95%
           and B of the
           Project
(3)   Vehicles, equipment,       580,000        100% of foreign
      materials, and                            expenditures and
      supplies                                  95% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)   Unallocated                500,000
                               _________
           TOTAL               4,600,000
                               =========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) establish an
institutional focal point for food security policy development and
coordination of strategy implementation, as an integral part of the
Borrower's framework for poverty reduction; (ii) improve under-
standing of food security issues and responses among decision-makers
and staff of relevant ministries; and (iii) incorporate research on,
and teaching of, food security-related issues and smallholder
agriculture in EMU and relevant in-service training programs.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Food Security Policy Development and Program Monitoring
1.    Staffing, furnishing and equipping of PAU;
2.    Strengthening of PAU's capabilities through about four short
and about two long-term fellowships for PAU personnel;
3.    Carrying out of policy studies; and
Page  9
4.    Analysis and dissemination of poverty and food security
information.
Part B:     Increasing national awareness of food security issues
            and strategies and training of personnel in addressing
            food security issues
1.    Organizing two national conferences and a series of national,
provincial and local workshops on food security issues;
2.    Carrying out about eight study tours to neighboring countries;
3.    Preparation and utilization by CFA of training modules for in-
service training in food security and related subjects for manage-
rial and technical staff of relevant line ministries, NGOs and
community leaders at central, provincial and district levels; and
4.    Development and implementation of a course in nutrition and
food security for health personnel at the Health Sciences Institute
in Maputo.
Part C:     Strengthening of the food security content of relevant
            preservice training programs of EMU's Faculty of
            Agriculture
1.    Acquisition of teaching materials, textbooks, vehicles and
computer equipment;
2.    Revision of curriculum to introduce food security-related
content into the existing academic program;
3.    Development of a core of faculty members and assistants
specialized in teaching the revised curriculum through the provision
of about four long-term fellowships;
4.    Design and implementation of university research focused on
family farming through the establishment of a data bank on relevant
research, development of a research agenda, selection of
methodologies and investigation of priority topics;
5.    Supervision of student research on food security-related
topics; and
6.    Recruitment of long and short-term visiting professors from
overseas universities.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    All contracts estimated to cost $50,000 or more shall be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Equipment, furniture, materials and supplies up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Page  10
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
4.    Contracts for textbooks and learning materials for EMU, up to
an aggregate of $70,000 may be awarded after direct negotiations
with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (Consultant
Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    CNP shall have the overall responsibility for the Project. PAU
shall be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the
Project, including liaising with the central level agencies of the
Borrower.
2.    The Chief of PAU shall be designated Project Director and
shall have the responsibility for overseeing progress in Project
Implementation and resolving substantive issues.
3.    An Administrative Officer, with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association, shall be appointed to take day-to-
day responsibility for routine administrative matters including, the
maintenance of Project accounts and overseeing of procurement.
4.    An Advisory Committee composed of one senior representative
from each institution involved in the implementation of the Project
and other institutions concerned with food security issues, shall be
established. The Advisory Committee shall meet quarterly to discuss
and resolve any policy issues.
5.    PAU shall coordinate the food security national conferences
with the assistance of the intersectoral working group referred to
in Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
6.    The Borrower shall hold: (a) no later than December 31, 1994,
the first food security national conference; and (b) no later than
December 31, 1996, the second food security national conference.
7.    The Borrower shall ensure that, no later than December 31,
1994, PAU has been staffed with at least five local technical and
professional staff with satisfactory qualifications.
8.    The Borrower shall cause CFA to carry out the following: (i)
preparation of and submission to the Association for review, comment
and prior approval, detailed proposals including estimated budgets
and implementation timetables for the training modules referred to
Page  11
under Part B.2 of the Project; (ii) no later than June 30, 1994,
completion of an initial set of at least six food security training
modules; and (iii) no later than December 31, 1994, completion of
the training of central and provincial level CFA trainers in the use
of the modules.
9.    The Borrower shall, no later than June 30, 1994, cause EMU to
prepare and submit to the Association for review, comment and
approval, a detailed research protocol in connection with Part C of
the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
Page  12
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
