Report No. PID4841
Project Name                     Philippines-Local Government Finance (@+) ...
& Development Project (LOGOFIND)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           UY - Other Urban Development
Project                          PHPE48588
Borrower                         Republic of the Philippines
Implementing Agency              Department of Finance, Department of Interior
and Local Government, and Participating
Local Government Units
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 19, 1999
Projected Appraisal
Date                             June 30, 1998 (Actual)
Projected Board Date             March 23 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
Urban finance and development in the Philippines is characterized by four
challenges: (i) underdeveloped capital markets for Local Government Units
(LGUs)
financing; (ii) weak local capacity in delivering local services and in
managing
and financing infrastructure projects; (iii) limited local resource
mobilization; and (iv) poorly organized information to monitor LGU fiscal
performance.
Underdeveloped capital markets. While long-term financing is presently scarce
in the Philippines, the LGU credit market is particularly underdeveloped.
LGUs are almost completely dependent upon Government Financial Institutions (GFIs)
and the government-backed Municipal Development Fund (MDF) for credit
financing.
Indeed, the MDF -- which has served as the main conduit for official
development assistance (ODA) loans and grants to LGUs -- is presently the only source of
long-term credit for LGUs. GFIs typically lend to LGUs on short-to-medium
terms for revenue-generating projects. Private commercial banks are generally
unwilling to lend to LGUs, due to difficulties in assessing the riskiness and
profitability of LGU lending. A few LGUs have considered issuing bonds to
raise long-term capital, but the bond market is also underdeveloped and transaction
costs are high. Numerous Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) transactions are being
explored by LGUs, but few deals have been closed yet.
Weak local capacity. Since the 1991 legislative passage of the Local
Government Code, LGUs have taken more responsibility and initiatives for improving local
service delivery. Nevertheless, LGUs generally lack the managerial and
financial capacity to meet the expanding demand for better services. Given



their limited technical and financial resources; inexperienced staff; weak (or
non-existent) creditworthiness; and lack of familiarity with the procedures,
rules and regulations governing private sector transactions like bond
flotation, commercial bank loans, and BOT projects, most LGUs cannot access private
financing to support their development projects.
Limited local resource mobilization. On average, LGU local revenues account
for only one-third of total revenues; the remaining two-thirds represents
intergovernmental transfers (i.e. IRA). LGUs often lack the administrative
capacity and political will to collect taxes efficiently, and they must do
more to enhance their own revenues through the imposition of fees and user charges
for services like water supply and solid waste management.
Poorly organized fiscal information. Existing LGU financial data are often
released with considerable delays, contain inconsistencies, and are presented
in a format that is difficult to understand. The national government?s oversight
and supervision of LGU finances remains relatively weak, and at present, there
are few incentives to induce improved LGU fiscal performance. Also, currently
there is no national policy to deal with financially weak or bankrupt LGUs.
At the LGU level, financial reporting, disclosure and dissemination must be
improved to allow the general public and potential private investors to
understand and assess LGU finances.
GOP policy framework. The Government of the Philippines (GOP?s) policy
framework for LGU financing outlines the respective roles of various
participants in LGU financing, and promotes local self reliance by reducing
LGUs' dependence on the national government and concurrently expanding LGU
access to private credit. Dependence on the national government will be
reduced
by: (a) enforcing a ?graduation policy? whereby the more creditworthy LGUs
access private sources of capital through commercial-bank loans, bonds, and
BOT-type arrangements, and (b) limiting national government grant funds to the
social and environmental aspects of local investments. GFIs and the MDF would
play a complementary and subsidiary role to these private sources, and would
refrain from lending to more creditworthy LGUs. The MDF is a key instrument
for implementing the policy framework for LGU financing.
The project is designed to operationalize the GOP's policy framework by
reorienting and strengthening the MDF to: (a) enhance its role in helping
resource-poor LGUs to establish a track record of creditworthiness and improve
their capacities for planning, financial and project management; (b) support
LGU projects with environmental and social objectives that are characterized as
"non-bankable" due to their long gestation period and lack of identifiable
revenue stream; (c) strengthen its own technical capacity to evaluate and
monitor LGU credits and grants and oversee implementation of the GOP's new
graduation policy for LGUs; and (d) promote access to ODA funding.
2. Objectives
The main project objective is to assist participating Local Government Units
in expanding and upgrading their basic infrastructure, services and facilities
and in strengthening their capacities in municipal governance, investment
planning, revenue generation, and project development and implementation. It would also
enhance capabilities at the national level to provide technical support and
long-term financing to local governments through the MDF.
- 2 -



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
In designing and preparing this project, the Bank incorporated its global
and Philippines-specific knowledge of municipal finance and overall capital
market development.    Through  its support on establishing an LGU financing policy,
the Bank has gained credibility with both the national government and the
donor community in the Philippines, which look to the Bank for leadership
in implementing projects and other actions supporting this new policy.
4. Description
A. LGU subprojects: This component would support subprojects for the
expansion, rehabilitation and improvement of basic infrastructure, social and
environmental services and facilities under LGU responsibility. As the
project follows a demand-driven approach, LGUs would be given a choice of eligible
subprojects to undertake. Financing under this component would be targeted to
LGUs in the 3rd through 6th income classes, in line with the government's
policy of encouraging more creditworthy (and higher income class) LGUs to tap
market-based financing. Higher-income LGUs in the 1st and 2nd income classes
could also access LOGOFIND funding on a case-by-case basis for social and
environmental subprojects.
B. LGU Training and Capacity Building: This component would support LGU
training and capacity building for (i) subproject development and
implementation; (ii) municipal planning, finances, and management; (iii)
improved training modules and delivery mechanisms; and (iv) piloting of new
programs including distance learning; LGU twinning; collaboration with the
Leagues of local governments, NGOs and the private sector; conferences and
workshops; and a rapid-response ("just-in-time") technical assistance to LGUs.
This component would be coordinated and managed by the DOF. It is likely that
the Municipal Training Program (MTP) of the DILG's Local Government Academy
(LGA) will play a key role in the implementation of this component. The
componenet would finance (a) the cost of training including training
materials, equipment and allowances, and payment to trainers; and (b) project staff
development, and advisory and consulting services.
C. LGU Resource Mobilization and Monitoring: This component would support
LGU Resource Mobilization and Monitoring including: (a) expanding the Real
Property Tax Administration (RPTA) Program to achieve nation-wide coverage; (b)
piloting new initiatives to help LGUs improve creditworthiness and revenue generation;
and (c) developing and implementing systems to improve monitoring of LGU
fiscal performance and local financial reporting and disclosure. This component
would be administered by the Bureau of Local Government Finance of the DOF, and
would finance consultancy services, contractual staff, equipment and supplies, and
training of staff.
D. MDF Reorganization and Strengthening: This component would support the
MDF Reorganization and Strengthening to implement, on a phased basis, new
institutional structures; streamlined procedures and approvals; decentralized
(field) operations; and contracting and training of management and staff.
Specific activities funded under this component include: (i) salaries of
contracted staff; (ii) office equipment and technology; (iii) operating costs
of the MDFO Central and field offices; and (iv) MDF staff development and
technical assistance.
5. Financing
-3-



Total ( US$m)
Government               33.7
IBRD                     100
IDA                        0
Total Project Cost       133.7
6. Implementation
The DOF will be the lead executing agency, and will provide overall policy
guidance and management of LOGOFIND. The DOF will use the MDF to channel
loans and grants to participating LGUs, which will be responsible for subproject
preparation and implementation. The Bank and the DOF have agreed on a plan to
reorganize the MDF. This plan will include a phased-approach to spinning off
or transferring the functions and responsibilities of the MDF to an existing or
new financial institution. The plan is expected to take several years to implement
fully considering the budgetary constraints affecting government operations
and the possible need for executive issuances or enabling legislation. The
LOGOFIND project, though loan conditionality and financing, would support the MDF
reorganization and strengthening.
The Local Government Academy (LGA) of Department of Interior and Local
Government (DILG) is likely to play a key role in implementing the LGU
training component. It will continue to maintain a small core staff established to
implement the Municipal Training Program supported by several World bank
projects, and rely mainly on consultants and others to develop and deliver
training to participating LGUs. The BLGF of DOF would be responsible for
implementing the LGU Resource Mobilization and Performance Monitoring
component of the project, working closely with other parties at the national and local
levels.
7. Sustainability
A key determinant of project sustainability is the inclusion of appropriate
incentives, conditionality and support for participating LGUs to improve their
financial and management performance, so that they can become fully
creditworthy over time and thus, graduate to GFI or private sources of funding.
Project sustainability will be further enhanced by: (a) requiring an LGU
equity contribution (which heightens their sense of ownership in the subproject); and
(b) developing managerial and financial capabilities (through training and
technical assistance) that will establish institutional sustainability even
after subprojects have been completed.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The proposed project would be the fourth in a series of municipal development
operations, dating back more than a decade, in which the Bank has used the MDF
to on-lend funds to LGUs in the Philippines. The MDF has proven to be an
effective mechanism in providing LGUs with direct access to long-term,
affordable credit and in collecting loan payments from LGUs (at present it has
no arrears.)
The Operational Evaluation Department (OED) audit of the first and second
municipal development projects indicates that their success reflects their
demand-driven approach to generate sub-projects from LGUs, and their
sequencing
of institution building before the actual physical investments. Most of the
- 4 -



sub-projects -- such as public markets, bus terminals and slaughterhouses --
generate revenues for LGUs. The audit confirmed that once LGUs completed and
learned from these revenue-generating projects, they were willing and able to
borrow for other types of projects with high social and environmental impacts
such as water supply and health-related services. The OED audit also noted
that the projects helped to establish a solid institutional base for LGU training
and capacity building (through the LGA's Municipal Training Program). In
addition, the OED audit recognized the value of the Real Property Tax Administration
(RPTA) program to help LGUs capture tax revenues associated with rising
property values.
The Bank's worldwide experience in providing credit financing to local
governments through municipal development funds or intermediaries is mixed.
The key lessons learned from the more successful experiences are that: (a) there
must be strong government commitment to the financial integrity of the
intermediary's operations (i.e., no political interference in its lending and
collection decisions), (b) the viability of any lending program depends on the
financial health (i.e. creditworthiness) of its borrowers and the stability of
the economy as a whole; and (c) the role of the government-backed intermediary
should be seen as an interim solution to facilitate more direct relationships
between municipal governments and private capital markets. These lessons have
been fully incorporated into the design of the proposed project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     No
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The environmental impacts will be low to moderate and
localized to sub-project locations. The project will finance improvements to
municipal services and expansion of basic infrastructure in about 200 LGUs.
Environmental safeguards will be adequately adhered to in the design of the
sub-projects, so that environmental problems can be avoided. For projects of
this nature, category B is assigned. An overall framework has been developed
to manage the subsequent sub-project environmental impacts consistent with Bank
and GOP policies.
Additionally, for the most commonly-financed subprojects (e.g., public markets
and slaughterhouses), sound environmental practices are being incorporated in
the prototypical design. This design will recommend minimum norms to be
maintained for wastewater collection and treatment and garbage collection and
disposal related to these subprojects.
The project will also assist to enhance and deliver the environmental training
modules offered to LGUs. This is expected to improve the skills of local
government officials and also provide opportunities for the private sector and
community groups to be engaged in environmental assessment and monitoring.
During the preparation of LOGOFIND, technical staff working with the MDF
received training of the Bank's environmental and social requirements and
municipal environmental management. Follow-on training will be supported
under the project.
11. Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
-5-



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager
Thomas L. Zearley
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Thomas Zearley
Principal Operations Officer
EASUR; Room MC8-355
Tel: (202) 473-8758
Fax: (202) 522-1787
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 26, 1999.
Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of the
PID.
-6-



