Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18971-PH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
LOCAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 19, 1999
Urban Development Sector Unit
Philippines Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective As of November 1998)
Currency Unit = Peso
Peso 40.0= US$ 1.0
US$ 0.25 = 1.00 Peso
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31  IBRD: July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           -      Asian Development Bank
BLGF          -      Bureau of Local Government
CPO           -      Central Project Office
CBRM          -      Community Based Resource Management Project
DBM           -      Department of Budget and Management
DENR          -      Department of Environment and National Resources
DILG          -      Department of Interior and Local Governrnent
DOF           -      Department of Finance
DPWH          -      Department of Public Works and Highways
GFI           -      Govermnent Financial Institution
GOP           -      Government of the Philippines
ICC           -      Investment Coordinating Committee
LGA           -      Local Govermnent Academy
LGU           -      Local Government Unit
LOGOFIND   -         Local Government Finance and Development Project
MDF           -      Municipal Development Fund
MDFO          -      Municipal Development Fund Office
MDFO-PGB   -         MDFO Policy Governing Board
MDPs          -      Municipal Development Projects
MTP           -      Municipal Training Program
NEDA          -      National Economic & Development Authority
ODA           -      Official Development Assistance
RPTA          -      Real Property Tax Administration
SA            -      Special Account
USAID         -      US Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Jean-Michel Severino
Country Manager/Director:    Vinay K. Bhargava
Sector Manager/Director:    Keshav Varma
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Thomas L. Zearley



PHILIPPINES
LOCAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE & DEVELOPMENT (LOGOFND) PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       5
3. Benefits and target population                                                      5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       6
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           8
2. Major related projects fnanced by the Bank and other development agencies           8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         9
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                            9
2. Financial                                                                          10
3. Technical                                                                          10
4. Institutional                                                                      11
5. Social                                                                             11
6. Environmental assessment                                                           12
7. Participatory approach                                                             13
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     13
2. Critical risks                                                                     14
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     15
-111 



G. Main Loan conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                            15
2. Other                                                                               15
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          16
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           17
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     21
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          40
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    41
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                43
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        45
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      53
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                        54
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   55
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             57
MAP(S)
-IV-



PH1LIPPINES
Local Government Finance & Development Project (LOGOFIND)
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Urban Development Sector Unit
Date: February 19, 1999                           Team Leader: Thomas L. Zearley
Country Manager/Director: Vinay K. Bhargava       Sector Manager/Director: Keshav Varma
Project ID: 48588                                 Sector(s): UY - Other Urban Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: No
Project Financing Data
3 Loan         O Credit         D Grant         O Guarantee    Fl Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m) US $100.0
Proposed Terms: a To be defined   E Multicurrency 1 Single currency
Ea Standard Variable a Fixed        1 LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):            5
Years to maturity:               20
Commitment fee:                  0.75%
Service charge                   0.00%
Front end fee on Bank loan       1.00%
--'Nk"W .ftwT b ..v-M't-4:
Government                                                      22.3           11.4           33.7
IBRD                                                            62.2           37.8          100.0
IDA                                                              0.0            0.0            0.0
Total:                                                          84.5           49.2          133.7
Borrower: Republic of the Philippines
Guarantor:
Responsible agency:
Departnent of Finance and Participating Local Government Units (LGUs)
Implementing agency(ies):
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
.   -   :  .  t . t 0 t ] 0 _ .1           J    m    -         IW   I>  N6()5 -     -20
Annual     3.8          10.1         14.8       21.9        22.2         16.8        10.4
Cumulative     3.8         13.9         28.7        50.6r    72.8            89.6      100.0
Project implementation period: 7 years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/99  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCS PAD Form: October 9,1998



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main project objective is to assist participating Local Government Units (LGUs) in expanding and
upgrading their basic infrastructure, services and facilities and in strengthening their capacities in
municipal governance, investment planning, revenue generation, and project development and
implementation. It would also enhance capabilities at the national level to provide technical support and
long-term financing to local governments through the Municipal Development Fund (MDF).
Implementation performance will be tracked using key indicators that reflect the project's main inputs and
outputs. The main inputs are: (a) volume of MDF loans and grants provided to LGUs for subprojects; (b)
use of technical assistance and training resources; and (c) number of new and contracted staff involved in
project implementation. The expected project outputs are: (a) the construction or rehabilitation of public
markets, slaughterhouses, transportation terminals, local school building, health centers and other
small-scale infrastructure; (b) a reorganized MDF, with its existing operations strengthened and
streamlined and consolidated within a single institutional structure and transitioning toward its integration
into an existing or new financial institution; (c) technical assistance and training outputs (measurable
improvements in institutional capacities, types and numbers of training sessions, number of local officials
trained); and (d) an operational, fiscal monitoring system for LGUs and guidelines for improving local
financial disclosure. Implementation performance will be closely monitored and reported to the DOF and
the World Bank in annual progress reports.
At the end of the project and as part of the ICR, the borrower will undertake a final review that will
evaluate the performance of the project and its intended impact on national development and LGU self
reliance. Details on project objectives, key development and implementation performance indicators and
arrangements for their monitoring and supervision are contained in Annex 1.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: No. 15362-PH                           Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/04/96
The proposed project is consistent with several key objectives of the most recent CAS for the Philippines.
These include: (a) strengthening public policies and implementation capabilities; (b) improving the
country's infrastructure and facilitating growth, particularly by mobilizing private investment and
participation; and (c) alleviating poverty and upgrading basic social services. In addition, the CAS
proposes to strengthen the ability of resource-poor LGUs to improve their service delivery.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Urban finance and development in the Philippines is characterized by four challenges: (i) underdeveloped
capital markets for LGU fnancing; (ii) weak local capacity in delivering local services and in managing
and financing infrastructure projects; (iii) limited local resource mobilization; and (iv) poorly organized or
unsystematic information to monitor LGU fiscal performance.
-2 -



Underdeveloped capital markets. While long-term financing is presently scarce in the Philippines, the
LGU credit market is particularly underdeveloped. LGUs are almost completely dependent upon
Government Financial Institutions (GFIs) and the MDF for credit financing. Indeed, the MDF -- which has
served as the main conduit for official development assistance (ODA) loans and grants to LGUs -- is
presently the only source of long-term credit for LGUs. GFIs typically lend to LGUs on short-to-medium
terms for revenue-generating projects. Private commercial banks are generally unwilling to lend to LGUs,
due to difficulties in assessing the riskiness and profitability of LGU lending. A few LGUs have considered
issuing bonds to raise long-term capital, but the bond market is also underdeveloped and transaction costs
are high. Numerous Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) transactions are being explored by LGUs, but few
deals have been closed yet.
Weak local capacity. Since the 1991 passage of the Local Government Code, LGUs have taken more
responsibility and initiatives for improving local service delivery. Nevertheless, LGUs generally lack the
managerial and financial capacity to meet the expanding demand for better services. Given their limited
technical and financial resources; inexperienced staff; weak (or non-existent) creditworthiness; and lack of
familiarity with the procedures, rules and regulations governing private sector transactions like bond
flotation, commercial bank loans, and BOT projects, most LGUs cannot access private fnancing to support
their development projects.
Limited local resource mobilization. On average, LGU local revenues account for only one-third of total
revenues; the remaining two-thirds represents intergovernmental transfers (i.e. IRA). LGUs often lack the
administrative capacity and political will to collect taxes efficiently, and they must do more to enhance their
own revenues through the imposition of fees and user charges for services like water supply and solid waste
management.
Poorly organized or unsystematic fiscal information. Existing LGU financial data are often released
with considerable delays, contain inconsistencies, and are presented in a format that is difficult to
understand. The national government's oversight and supervision of LGU finances remains relatively
weak, and at present, there are few incentives to induce improved LGU fiscal performance. Also, currently
there is no national policy to deal with financially weak or bankrupt LGUs. At the LGU level, financial
reporting, disclosure and dissemination must be improved to allow the general public and potential private
investors to understand and assess LGU finances.
GOP policy framework. The GOP's policy framework for LGU financing (prepared with Bank support
and presented by the DOF to the donor community during the December 1996 Consultative Group meeting)
outlines the respective roles of various participants in LGU fnancing, and promotes local self reliance by
reducing LGUs' dependence on the national government and concurrently expanding LGU access to private
credit. Dependence on the national government will be reduced by: (a) enforcing a "graduation policy"
whereby the more creditworthy LGUs access private sources of capital through commercial-bank loans,
bonds, and BOT-type arrangements, and (b) limiting national government grant funds to the social and
environmental aspects of local investments. GFIs and the MDF would play a complementary and
subsidiary role to these private sources, and would refrain from lending to more creditworthy LGUs. The
MDF is a key instrument for implementing the policy framework for LGU financing.
The project is designed to operationalize the GOP's policy framework by reorienting and strengthening the
MDF to: (a) enhance its role in helping resource-poor LGUs to establish a track record of creditworthiness
and improve their capacities for planning, financial and project management; (b) support LGU projects
with environmental and social objectives that are characterized as "non-bankable" due to their long
gestation period and lack of identifiable revenue stream; (c) strengthen its own technical capacity to
- 3 -



evaluate and monitor LGU credits and grants and oversee implementation of the GOP's new graduation
policy for LGUs; and (d) promote access to ODA funding. MDF loans would be made at market termis,
with technical assistance provided for project preparation and capacity building. Limited national
government grants for social and environmental aspects of LGU projects will be provided. Emphasis will
be placed on assisting LGUs improve their own revenue collection and fnancial reporting as a means to
enhance their creditworthiness.
Other donors such as the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the US Agency for International
Development (USAID) are collaborating with the GOP and the GFIs in preparing projects that would
mobilize private and public fnancing for LGUs ineligible for MDF support.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
While the project will address in varying degrees most of the sector issues identified above, a key goal is to
help transform the MDF into a financial intermediary to improve LGUs' access to the private capital
market. Viewed in this context, the GOP has made a strategic choice to reorient and reorganize the MDF,
within the DOF, to fill gaps present in the municipal credit system. The GOP intends for the MDF's role as
a financial intermediary to diminish over time as more LGUs migrate to GFIs or private capital markets.
Thus the MDF's performance could be broadly measured in terms of how many LGUs succes'sfully
graduate into market-based funding. However, in light of the large number of LGUs that are not yet fully
creditworthy, it is likely that there will be a need and justification for the MDF for the next ten to fifteen
years.
Other strategic choices that the GOP considered and rejected as currently politically unfeasible or
inconsistent with overall financial sector development were (a) creating a new public municipal
development bank to undertake the responsibilities of the MDF; (b) obliging an existing GFI to assume the
credit risk and onlend funds to resource-poor LGUs; and (c) establishing a government-backed municipal
credit guarantee corporation.
-4-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. LGU subprojects, financed by a                     95.7       72.1      77.1      80.6
mix of MDF loans and limited grants
2. LGU Training and Capacity                            8.3       6.3       4.5      54.2
Building
3. LGU Resource Mobilization and                       16.5      12.4       9.5       57.6
Monitoring
4. MDF Reorganization and                              12.2       9.2       7.9       64.8
Strengthening
Total Project Costs                   132.7      99.3       99.0      74.6
Front-end fee                     1.0        0.7       1.0     100.0
Total Financing Required                   133.7      100.0     100.0      74.8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Key policy and institutional reforns include strengthening and reorienting the MDF to serve as a financial
intermediary for channelling long-term credit and grants to less creditworthy LGUs for their development
projects. Specific actions include: (a) bringing together in one organizational unit, within the DOF, the
technical and financial functions of the existing MDF (which are presently split between various central
project offices and the Bureau of Local Government Finance (BLGF) of DOF); (b) providing the MDF
with appropriately trained full-time management and technical staff; (c) developing and implementing new
policies and procedures to ensure that MDF is more efficient and responsive to the needs of LGUs; and (d)
enhancing the DOF's capacity to monitor and improve LGU finances.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would improve delivery of environmental and social services, infrastructure and public
facilities at the local level; strengthen the management and financing capabilities of participating LGUs;
enhance the national government's ability to provide fnancing, training and technical assistance to LGUs;
and improve the national govermment's ability to monitor, assess and offer incentives to LGUs to improve
their governance and fiscal performance.
Beneficiary Targeting: The subproject financing component of LOGOFIND would be targeted principally
at LGUs in the lowest income classes (3rd through 6th). At present, 1,344 LGU (out of a total of 1,681
-5 -



LGUs) fall into this target group. Because participating LGUs are selected through a demand-driven,
bottom-up process that emphasizes self-selection, only those LGUs will be included in the project which
meet eligibility criteria, are able to submit investment proposals, and agree to make necessary fiscal
improvements. The eligibility criteria for an LGU to participate in the project are presented in Annex 2b.
Higher-income LGUs in the 1 st and 2nd income classes could also access LOGOFIND funding on a
case-by-case basis for environmental and social subprojects.
The GOP preparation team has estimated that about 200 LGUs will borrow for subprojects under
LOGOFIND during its implementation. Of this total, 180 LGUs are expected to belong to the 3rd through
6th income classes, and are likely to borrow for revenue-generating subprojects (a pattern demonstrated
under previous Philippines' municipal development projects). About 20 LGUs in the first and second
income classes are projected to borrow for eligible social and environmental subprojects.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented over seven years.
The DOF will be the lead executing agency, and will provide overall policy guidance and management of
LOGOFIND. The DOF will use the MDF to channel loans and grants to participating LGUs, which will
be responsible for subproject preparation and implementation. The DOF and the Bank have agreed on a
plan to reorganize and strengthen the MDF. This plan involves a phased-approach of transforning the
MDF from its current status as a financing mechanism within DOF to spinning it off or transferring it to an
existing or new financial institutions. The plan is expected to take about three years to implement fully
considering the budgetary constraints affecting government operations and the possible need for executive
issuances or enabling legislation. The LOGOFIND project, though loan conditionality and financing,
would support the MDF reorganization and strengthening. A description of the current MDF structure and
functions, and the reorganizational plan agreed to at negotiations is provided in Annex 2e.
For the first three years of the project when the MDF is being restructured, a new Office of the Municipal
Development Fund (MDFO) has been created within the DOF, and will be staffed with full-time
professionals. The MDFO will handle subproject promotion and supervision, as well as subproject
appraisal and subloan disbursements and collections. The MDFO will also support implementation of the
Bank-financed Community-Based Resource Management Project (CBRM), approved in early 1998. The
new MDFO will draw its core staff from the DOF, BLGF, Local Government Academy (LGA) and the
Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) units that have successfully implemented several
previous municipal development projects and assisted in the preparation of this project. The institutional
arrangements for initiating project implementation (as well as the MDF financing terms and conditions
discussed below) will be set out in an Operations Manual, which will be adopted by MDFO as a condition
of loan effectiveness.
Funding for LGU subprojects would be provided by the MDF as a mix of loans and limited grants that
would complement equity contributions from the participating LGUs. The loan/grant/equity mix for LGU
subprojects is derived primarily from recently-approved government policy governing the cost sharing
arrangements between the national government and local government projects. The objective of this policy
is to limit grant support to specific types of devolved activities of national priority. Annex 2c shows the
mix of loan/grant/equity financing to be provided by subproject type and income classes of LGUs under the
LOGOFIND project. This financing mix is structured primarily to encourage local govermnent investment
in environmental and social subprojects and to provide resource-poor LGUs with opportunities to access
financing for basic municipal infrastructure and services. Final agreement on the LOGOFIND financing
-6 -



mix scheme was reached at loan negotiations.
The MDF subloans to participating LGUs will continue to carry an interest rate linked to a market-based
rate, to help prepare these LGUs for eventual graduation to GFI or private financing. At negotiations, it
was agreed that the interest rate applicable to LOGOFIND subloans would be calculated based on the
weighted average interest rate (WAIR) on 91-day T-bills plus a two percent margin, fixed for the life of
each subloan. DOF has agreed to review and revise this rate as necessary, at least twice each year (by June
30 and December 31) during implementation. It also agreed that the minimum rate to be charged on
LOGOFIND subloans would be 14% per annum. The subloan maturity and grace period will be set in
accordance with the expected life of the LGU subproject, but will not exceed 15 years and 3 years,
respectively. The interest rate policy and other onlending terms would be described in the LOGOFIND
operations manual.
The DOF would be responsible for coordinating and managing the LGU training component. The Local
Government Academy (LGA) of the Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG), through its
Municipal Training Program (MTP), will likely play a key role in implementing this component. At
negotiations, it was agreed that a Memorandum of Agreement would be finalized, as a condition of loan
effectiveness, between DOF and DILG to define the role of LGA and its MTP in assisting with the
implementation of the training component. The BLGF of DOF would be responsible for implementing the
LGU Resource Mobilization and Performance Monitoring component of the project, working closely with
other parties at the national and local levels.
All procurement for the implementation of subprojects, financed by the Bank loan, would be undertaken by
participating LGUs and supervised by the MDFO. DOF would be responsible for procuring items for the
other components. All procurement would follow World Bank guidelines.
The DOF would ensure that a financial management system would be established and maintained, including
records, accounts and prepared financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards
acceptable to the Bank. These accounting standards would be consistently applied, adequate to reflect the
project's operations and financial condition, and will register separately the operations, resources and
expenditures for and in connection with carrying out the project. Accordingly, separate accounts would be
kept by all the agencies and LGUs participating in the project in accordance with sound accounting
practices. The project accounts, together with the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
would be audited annually by independent auditors; the audit reports would be furnished to the Bank by the
MDF within 6 months after the close of the Government's fiscal year.
Monitoring of project execution will be undertaken by the MDFO, which will provide the Bank with
semi-annual progress reports not later than August 15 and February 15 of each year, with the first one
submitted by August 15, 1999. The MDFO will be responsible also for contributing to the project's
Implementation Completion Report within six months after the closing date of the loan. A mid-term review
of the project would be jointly undertaken by the Borrower and the Bank by June 30, 2002. It would focus
on reviewing: (i) progress in restructuring and strengthening the MDF and streamlining its appraisal and
approval procedures; (ii) evolving demand from LGUs for project funds and whether any action is required
to change lending terms and eligibility criteria; (iii) implementation performance and development impact of
the project based on performance indicators; and (iv) any need for adjusting project design in light of the
findings of the review.
-7 -



D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Maintaining the existing MDF structure was rejected because it would not meet the needs for more
streamlined operations nor for handling a large number of LGUs and their subprojects. Co-administration
of MDF funds through a GFI or private bank was also rejected as an alternative because these institutions
are generally unwilling to lend to 3rd through 6th income class LGUs since their creditworthiness is not
well established.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Establish and expand the MDF, as a   First, Second and Third        S             S
revolving fund, providing LGUs    Municipal Development
(mainly the higher-income, rapidly  Projects (Ln. 2435-PH; Ln.
urbanizing cities and municipalities)   3146-PH; and Ln.
with long-term development financing  3455-PH)--MDP 1 and 2
and strengthening of local technical    completed (ICR and OED audit
capabilities                      ratings); MDP 3 ongoing
Create a lending window for rural  Community-Based Resource         S             S
infrastructure/environmental LGU  Management (Ln. 4595-PH)
subprojects within the MDF framework
Other development agencies
Enhance local capacity and ability to   USAID Governance and Local
prepare and implement development   Development (GOLD) project
projects
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project would be the fourth in a series of municipal development operations, dating back
more than a decade, in which the Bank has used the MDF to on-lend funds to LGUs in the Philippines.
The MDF has proven to be an effective mechanism in providing LGUs with direct access to long-term,
affordable credit and in collecting loan payments from LGUs (at present it has no arrears.)
The Operational Evaluation Department (OED) audit of the first and second municipal development
projects indicates that their success reflects their demand-driven approach to generate sub-projects from
LGUs, and their sequencing of institution building before the actual physical investments. Most of the
sub-projects -- such as public markets, bus terminals and slaughterhouses -- generate revenues for LGUs.
The audit confirmed that once LGUs completed and learned from these revenue-generating projects, they
were willing and able to borrow for other types of projects with high social and environmental impacts such
as water supply and health-related services. The OED audit also noted that the projects helped to establish
-8 -



a solid institutional base for LGU training and capacity building (through the LGA's Municipal Training
Program). In addition, the OED audit recognized the value of the Real Property Tax Administration
(RPTA) program to help LGUs capture tax revenues associated with rising property values.
The Bank's worldwide experience in providing credit financing to local governments through municipal
development funds or intermediaries is mixed. The key lessons learned from the more successful
experiences are that: (a) there must be strong government commitment to the financial integrity of the
intermediarys operations (i.e., no political interference in its lending and collection decisions), (b) the
viability of any lending program depends on the financial health (i.e. creditworthiness) of its borrowers and
the stability of the economy as a whole; and (c) the role of the government-backed intermediary should be
seen as an interim solution to facilitate more direct relationships between municipal governments and
private capital markets. These lessons have been fully incorporated into the design of the proposed project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The national government's interest in the project emanates primarily from a continued strong commitment
to the decentralization of service delivery responsibilities and financing to LGUs. The national government,
particularly DOF, DPWH, Department of Budget and Management (DBM) and the LGA of DILG have
actively collaborated in developing the project concept, and in fielding a team to prepare the project. Also,
the DOF has recruited a highly-respected team of local consultants to plan the reorganization of the MDF,
and the MDF-PGB has already issued resolutions to begin the MDF's restructuring and strengthening.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
In designing and preparing this project, the Bank incorporated its global and Philippines-specific knowledge
of municipal finance and overall capital market development. Through its support on establishing an LGU
financing policy, the Bank has gained credibility with both the national government and the donor
community in the Philippines, which look to the Bank for leadership in implementing projects and other
actions supporting this new policy.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
i Cost-Benefit Analysis:   NPV=US$20.1 million; ERR = 17 %
O Cost Effectiveness Analysis
O Other
Tangible economic benefits will accrue from the LGU subprojects. As these are demand driven, it is
difficult to predict the exact rates of return at this stage. In addition to the benefits noted, intangible
benefits will accrue from the long-term improvements in local management and financing, implying that the
rates of return are estimated conservatively. The Economic Rates of Return (ERR) for possible
LOGOFIND subprojects are based on the costs of the subprojects, as well as the costs of other components
for training, resource mobilization and technical assistance.
The total project cost includes subproject costs as well as the other components such as training, local
resource mobilization and technical assistance. This cost was compared to the benefits from the
subprojects to estimate the ERR of the project at 16%, which exceeds the local discount rate of 14%.
-9-



2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ 61.1 million; FRR = 29 %
The financial rates of return for revenue generating subprojects to be proposed by LGUs range from
27%-35%. Such revenue generating subprojects include public markets, bus terminals, and
slaughterhouses. probable LGU subprojects range from 19% (for sanitation facilities) to 49% (for roads).
The non-monetary benefits from roads and drainage, traffic management, sanitation facilities and shore
protection were valued based on existing methodologies used in previous municipal development projects.
Fiscal Impact:
Under the project, LGUs apply for subproject funding through the MDF. The fiscal impact of the
subprojects on LGUs will depend on: (a) the loan/grant/equity mix, and (b) the fnancing terms of the loan
(duration, grace period, interest rate). The grant component of the financing mix will be limited, with the
majority of funding coming from the MDF loan and LGU equity contribution. Hence, the fiscal impact of
the project at the national level will be small. Before receiving approval for a subproject, the potential
loanable capacity of the LGU is calculated based on historical values of local revenues and transfers.
Preliminary debt service calculations verify that the LGUs will have sufficient revenues to service these
debts (and provide required equity).
Loan repayments by LGUs would be assured in several ways. First, the BLGF has established significant
competence (through its experience with earlier municipal development projects) in assessing and judging
the creditworthiness of LGUs. That competence will be applied to LOGOFIND subprojects to reject
non-creditworthy applicants. Second, established appraisal criteria and processes that exist in the MDF
will be applied by skilled staff members to LOGOFIND subprojects. Third, all LGUs participating under
the project must adopt a fiscal improvement program for effective project execution and debt servicing.
Finally, in the event that an LGU does not make its loan repayments on time, its IRA transfer (internal
revenue allotment from the national government) would be intercepted to meet those loan obligations. This
intercept feature is currently being used successfully (in about 12% of subloans), and allows the MDF to
maintain no arrears.
3. Technical:
The project will finance small-scale infrastructure works and equipment purchases in about 200 LGUs. It
will also support engineering and technical studies needed to prepare these projects and to oversee their
implementation. Preliminary engineering designs have been completed and commitments already secured
from local officials for four LGU subprojects; similar studies and commitments will be obtained for an
additional eight subprojects by December 1998. These twelve subprojects would form the initial
LOGOFIND pipeline. Following the May 1998 election, and after new mayors took office, the CPO began
to promote the project to assure a steady stream of LOGOFIND subprojects. So far, more than 90 LGUs
have expressed interest in borrowing under LOGOFIND. The promotional activities will be accelerated
once the project is negotiated.
To enhance the quality and efficiency of LGU subprojects approvals, the MDFO will streamline and
strengthen the subproject processing and technical standards established under previous municipal
development projects. This will be described an Operations Manual for the project, which the MDFO will
adopt as a condition of loan effectiveness. This manual will also include revised prototype designs for
common subproject types to aid LGUs in identifying, preparing, costing and implementing such
subprojects. The MDFO will closely monitor and supervise subproject preparation and implementation,
and advise local officials when additional technical expertise is needed.
- 10-



At negotiations, it was agreed that the MDFO would fiurnish the Bank for comments the subproject
appraisal reports for: (a) the first twenty subprojects proposed for LOGOFIND financing; and (b) each
proposed subproject costing three million dollars equivalent or more, prior to submitting such subprojects
to the MDFO-PGB for review and approval.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Department of Finance
b. Project management:
For the first three years, the project will be managed by the new MDFO in the DOF. Under this
arrangement, the MDFO would be staffed by experienced, full-time professionals and consultants, many of
whom have worked on previous municipal development projects with different government agencies (e.g.,
BLGF, DPWH and LGA). The consolidation of activities under one office and the employment of full-time
staff will improve the efficiency of all MDF operations and increase the institutional capacity to absorb
new funds and address the increasing demands of LGU borrowers. As a condition of loan effectiveness, the
DOF has agreed to appoint a qualified executive director of the MDFO, a project manager for LOGOFIND
as well as other key staff.
Within three years, and in accordance with the MDF reorganizational plan, the MDFO will be spun-off or
transferred to an existing or new fnancial institution. At present, DOF is considering three options: (i)
transferring the administration of the MDF, as a fund, to a subsidiary of an existing GFI; (ii) transferring
the assets and liabilities (and the risks) of the MDF to a subsidiary of an existing GFI; or (iii) creating a
new GFI, or municipal development bank, to own and operate the MDF. The spin-off or transfer of the
MDF operations to a fnancial institution is expected to provide greater flexibility in using its resources, in
recruiting and compensating qualified personnel, and in imparting the financial discipline necessary for
self-sufficiency and improved efficiency. Furthermore, this transformation would reduce the financial
burden on the national government of providing credit services to LGUs. The various legal and
administrative actions required to implement these changes and the expected time of their completion are
included in the MDF reorganizational plan, which was agreed to at negotiations. Before the transfer
actually takes place, the Bank will assure its full satisfaction ahead of time with what responsibilities,
obligations, risks and liabilities would be transferred to the financial institution, and how much
compensation would be provided to the fnancial institution as well.
5. Social:
The project targets LGUs in the lowest income classes (3rd through 6th). Generally, these LGUs need
strengthening both financially and managerially, and have incidences of poverty that are higher than the
national average. Public market improvements, which are expected to account for a large part of project
subloans, would benefit the poor families who shop, and the local farmers and stall owners who sell, at
these markets. The construction of slaughterhouses and transportation terminals, which are also expected
to utilize project financing, improves local health and living conditions, creates local employment and raises
local incomes. The project would also channel financing to LGUs to improve social services including
school repairs and health clinics.
Of the estimated 200 LGU subprojects to be fnanced, some may involve the acquisition of land, demolition
of structures, and the relocation of people. Agreement was reached that this would be kept to a minimum.
In accordance with the Bank's requirements, a "Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework"
- 1 1 -



governing land acquisition, compensation and resettlement in all subprojects was submitted to the Bank for
review and comment. This Policy Framework was finalized at negotiation, and will be included in the
LOGOFIND Operations Manual. For the 4 LGU subprojects which will have prepared technical designs
before negotiations, the necessary reports in accordance with the policy framework were submitted to the
Bank for review and approval at negotiations. For the subprojects identified after the loan effectiveness,
submission of necessary reports to the Bank for review and clearance and its implementation would be a
condition for disbursement for each subproject. In addition, detailed guidelines for land acquisition and
resettlement, including surveys and report preparation, and public participation and consultation would be
prepared for inclusion in the LOGOFIND Operations Manual.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category El A Z B E C
The environmental impacts will be low to moderate and localized to sub-project locations. The project will
finance improvements to municipal services and expansion of basic infrastructure in about 200 LGUs. If
environmental safeguards are not adequately adhered to in the design of the sub-projects, environmental
problems can be expected. For projects of this nature, category B is assigned. An overall framework is
being developed to manage the subsequent sub-project environmental impacts consistent with Bank and
GOP policies.
An environmental assessment framework has been agreed to with the Bank and the fnal version will be
integrated into the LOGOFIN)D Operational Manual. This assessment framework would be applied to the
200 or so LGU subprojects financed under the project. A screening mechanism is being employed to
categorize the sub-projects shown in Annex 2a. Category 1 sub-projects with significant environmental
impacts (e.g. river/sea shore protection, sewage treatment plants etc.) will be required to follow DAO
96-37 (Environmental Impact System of Philippines) of the Department of Environment and Natural
Resources; Category 2 sub-projects with moderate to low environmental impacts (e.g. public markets,
slaughterhouses, etc.) will require to submit an environmental management plan as part of the sub-project
design. Category 3 sub-projects with insignificant impacts (e.g. health clinics, schools etc.) will require, at
a minimum, that planning and building codes are adhered to. The enviromnental assessment framework
will provide the processing mechanism to be followed in the case of each category, with clear delineation of
responsibilities between LGUs and the MDFO.
Additionally, for the most commonly-financed subprojects (e.g., public markets and slaughterhouses),
sound environmental practices are being incorporated in the prototypical design. This design will
recommend minimum norms to be maintained for wastewater collection and treatment and garbage
collection and disposal related to these subprojects.
The DOF has agreed to use its best efforts to bring about the signing, within six months of project
implementation, of a Memorandum of Agreement with the Department of Natural Resources for the
following: (a) endorsement of the environmental and social policy frameworks described in the Operations
Manual; (b) providing delegated authority to DOF/MDFO by DENR to appraise and approve Category 3
and 4 subprojects; and (c) an annual independent audit of the environmental and social assessment
frameworks described in the Operations Manual.
The project may also assist LGA to enhance and deliver its environmental training modules to LGUs. This
training is expected to improve the skills of local government officials and also provide opportunities for
the private sector and community groups to be engaged in environmental assessment and monitoring.
During the preparation of LOGOFIND, technical staff working with the MDF received training of the
Bank's environmental and social requirements and municipal environmental management. Follow-on
- 12 -



training will be supported under the project.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
One of the key eligibility criteria for an LGU to participate in the project is the formal expression of
interest and commitment through a local council (Sanggunian) resolution endorsing the project. The
council in turn must consult with primary beneficiaries and other affected groups such as market vendors
and suppliers, jeepney and bus owners, and local taxpayers, particularly if adjustments in service fees and
charges are required to service the borrowings. The project also requires that the subprojects be identified
as a priority in the LGU's development plan, which is prepared in consultation with the community. In
addition, the LOGOFIND project is establishing a new requirement that, during subproject implementation,
the LGU must publish or post, in a location accessible to the public and in accordance with government
regulations, basic information about the MDF subloan and subproject including costs, fnancing plan and
contract awards.
b. Other key stakeholders:
National government agencies, particularly DOF, NEDA, DPWH, DBM, and DILG were actively involved
in developing the LGU financing policy framework and conceptualizing the project including the MDF
reorganization. These agencies also form the MDF's main executive body, the PGB. In addition,
consultations were held during project preparation with local policy research institutions, academic groups
and the Leagues of local governments on the LGU financing policy framework and the project design.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
A key determinant of project sustainability is the inclusion of appropriate incentives, conditionality and
support for participating LGUs to improve their financial and management performance, so that they can
become fully creditworthy over time and thus, graduate to GFI or private sources of funding.
Sustainability will be further enhanced by at least three mechanisms in the project. First, the LGUs will
have a sense of ownership of the project not only because they will generate and plan their own subprojects
but also because they will contribute equity and borrow funds to finance these subprojects. Secondly, the
project will support the development of institutional and human resource capacity that will continue beyond
project completion. Third, LGU loan repayment is ensured with the inter-governmental (IRA) intercept
mechanism.
- 13 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
Delays or reversal by Government in     M         Project design and conditionality will
implementing the LGU financing policy            support the implementation of the
framework                                        framework.
Lack of sustained government            M         MDF-PGB recently approved
commitment to strengthen and reorient             resolutions have established
the MDF                                           commitment of key national agencies to
institutional reforms. The enactment of
Executive Order No. 41 has formally
created the MDFO, and expressed the
intentions to transfer the MDF to a GFI.
This will be reinforced by project
financing and conditionality.
From Components to Outputs
Inadequate demand from LGUs for         M         Initial pipeline of 12 subprojects has
subprojects                                       been identified and will be prepared by
December 1998; survey of LGU
demand for previous MDPs was used to
estimate initial demand; excess demand
from MDP 3 will be channeled to
LOGOFIND.
Participating LGUs will lack the        M         While the project will focus on the
necessary human and fnancial capacity             poorest and weakest segment of the
to (a) prepare and implement their                LGU market, the LGU eligibility
subprojects quickly and at an                     requirements will ensure that
acceptable level of quality; and (b) to           participating LGUs have a minimum
benefit substantially from the training           level of financial and technical
and advice offered to them                        competence, and that their subprojects
are well prepared before being provided
with MDF funding.
Turnover in elected officials and staffs  M       Project supports capacity building at the
of LGUs (potentially every three years)           LGU and national levels, with TA and
could reduce the capacity of LGUs to             training, to enhance institutional
implement subprojects                             sustainability.
Inadequate and untimely provision of    S         DOF has assured that adequate project
counterpart funds for the project                 funding will be included in its CYOO
and onwards budgets, while funding
from the MDF to LGUs is conditioned
upon up-front equity contributions from
the LGUs.
-14 -



Expansion of LGU lending to 3rd-6th      M         The DOF has prepared a set of
income classes will reduce the cost                prototype subproject designs to help
effectiveness and timeliness of the MDF            LGUs identify, develop, cost and
implement subprojects; these prototype
designs and the operational manual will
save time and costs, and lessen the
procedural requirements for LGUs.
Overall Risk Rating                      M         Risks are further mitigated by the
Bank's and other donor's
well-established dialogue with the
Government on LGU fnancing issues;
by the close integration of the LGU
financing dialogue with overall macro
and financial sector dialogues; and by
the close coordination provided by the
Bank and other donors on future
projects to be channel through the MDF
and GFIs to LGUs.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
Conditions for Effectiveness are:
1. Finalization between DOF and DILG of a Memorandum of Agreement to define the role of the LGA in
assisting with the implementation of the project's training and capacity building component.
2. Appointments of (i) an MDFO Executive Director, with appropriate qualifications and experience; and
(ii) a Project manager, procurement specialist, accountant and environmental specialist, whose
qualifications and experiences are satisfactory to the Bank.
3. Adoption by the MDFO and MDFO-PGB of a LOGOFIND Operations Manual that is acceptable to
the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Implementation Conditions are:
1. MDFO-PGB would approve only those subprojects and lend to those LGUs that meet the eligibility
criteria contained in the LOGOFIND Operations Manual that are satisfactory to the Bank.
2. No change would be made to the Operations Manual without the Bank's approval.
3. Subproject Appraisal Report for the first 20 subprojects and each subproject costing equal or more than
US$3.0 million equivalent will be furnished to the Bank for comments.
4. DOF would comply with the milestones and timetable set out in the action plan to reorganize and
strengthen the MDF, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
- 15 -



5. DOF would comply with the milestones and timetable set out in the action plan to enhance LGU
resource mobilization and performance monitoring, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
6. Audit reports of project accounts, the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) would be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the close of the government's fiscal year.
7. Submission of semi-annual progress reports (by February 15 and August 15 of each year, with the first
one submitted by August 15, 1999) and necessary documentation for the mid-term review June 30, 2002,
the implementation completion report and the monitoring of implementation and development impact in
accordance with key indicators agreed with the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
ho,mas L. Zearley                Ke                            ,Vinay K. Bhargava
Team Leader                     Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 16 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PHILIPPINES: Local Government Finance & Development Project (LOGOFIND)
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Strengthen public sector                                                      Stated CAS objectives are
closely linked to Bank mission
2. Improve infrastructure
3. Upgrade basic services
Project Development       Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
1. Expand and upgrade basic                           The DOF/MDFO will be       - The national government
infrastructure, and social and                        responsible for monitoring the will maintain or heighten its
environmental services and                            performance indicators related commitment to the devolution
facilities                                            to LGU finances. As part of  of service responsibilities and
the annual project progress   finances to LGUs.
report, DOF/MDFO will
collect project progress and   -Macroeconomic conditions
impact information and record will remain relatively stable
actual performance indicators and the local capital market
against agreed targets.    will continue to develop, so
that creditworthy LGUs will
be able to access GFI and
private funding.
2. Strengthen municipal
management and
administration
3. Implement Govermment's
credit policy framework
-17 -



Output from each     C     lutput Indicators:        Prjc eoii(fro upt o Obetv)
component:
1. Improved basic          Number of LGU Subprojects Periodic progress reports will
infrastructure, services and   approved:            be provided by DOF         - The nation government will
facilities                Year 2000 - 20                                       proceed with the speedy
2001 - 25                                      implementation of actions to
2002 - 35                                       operationalize the new LGU
2003 - 40                                       credit policy framework.
2004 - 45
2005 - 35
2. Enhance LGU               No. of LGUs receiving
management capacity      training:
Year 2000 - 20
2001 - 25
2002 - 35
2003 - 40
2004 - 45
2005 - 35
3. Improved ability to monitor LGU credit rating system
LGU fiscal performance    established by December 2000
* Fiscal information system is
established by March 2002
Regular monitoring reports
are disseminated by June 2002
4. Improved local resource  No. of LGUs participating in
mobilization              RPTA:
Year 2000 - 100 (TMRCTC)
2001 - 150 (TMRCTC)
- 50 (DC)
2002 - 224 (TMRCTC)
100 (DC)
2003 - 50 (TMRCTC)
- 50 (DC)
No. of LGUs with
computerized business tax
systems: 2000 - 10 (Impl.)
2003 - 20 (Rep.)
5. Enhanced institutional    MDFO would have in place                          The Government will
arrangements and capacity for new policies, procedures, and                    maintain its strong
MDF                       operational manuals by an                            commitment to reorient and
agreed-to specific date.                             strengthen the policies and
management of the MDF, and
will assign the resources and
personnel necessary to it to
operate efficiently.
-18



.:Owt            ,O } .- .                     . ... .. ...E'. '<g '' 4- :*
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Infrastructure, services and Volume of financing (US$) is                    1. Adequate LGU demand for
facilities sub-projects   committed and disbursed for                           sub-loans
subprojects                                          2. Counterpart funding is
Municipal infrastructure                           made available on an adequate
Enviromnental projects                             and timely basis.
Social projects                                    3. Participating LGUs will
have the necessary capacity to
(a) prepare and implement
their subprojects quickly and
at an acceptable level of
quality, and (b) benefit
substantially from the training
and advice offered to them.
2. Training and capacity    Delivery of training courses   Training modules and list
building                  and capacity building support of qualified training
Piloting of programs    institutions
distance learning
LGU twinning
league and NGO
collaboration
* Delivery of MDFO
conferences and workshops
* Development and delivery
of "rapid-response" TA to
LGUs
3. Local resource         * Completion of RPTA
mobilization              activities in LGUs
* Documentation of best
practices in
private sector participation,
inter-local cooperation
asset management
revenue planning
* Development of business
tax administration software
* Piloting of innovative
approaches in 3-4 LGUs
private sector participation,
inter-local cooperation
asset management
revenue planning
- 19 -



4. LGU Performance          Establishment of fiscal  In accordance with a timetable
Monitoring               information system         agreed to with WB
* Development of fiscal
performance indicators
* Design and dissemination
of regular fiscal monitoring
reports
* Completion of BLG staff
training
5. Streamlined MDF        * 20% reduction in subproject Revised operational manual
procedures and approvals    processing time
* Improved timeliness of
disbursements
7. Strengthened MDF          Formation of MDFO in   In accordance with a timetable
DOF                       agreed to with WB
Staffing of MDFO
* Spin-off/Transfer of
MDFO
-20 -



Annex 2: Project Description
PHILIPPINES: Local Government Finance & Development Project (LOGOFIND)
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$95.7 million
LGU Subprojects: This component would support subprojects for the expansion, rehabilitation and
improvement of basic infrastructure, social and enviromnental services and facilities under LGU
responsibility. As the project follows a demand-driven approach, LGUs would be given a choice of eligible
subprojects to undertake. These subprojects are shown in Annex 2a, and are grouped as follows:
Infrastructure (revenue and non-revenue) Projects; Social Projects; Environmental Projects; and
Consultancy Services and Equipment. A more complete description of the subproject types and specific
activities to be fnanced by the project will be contained in the LOGOFIND Operations Manual.
Financing under this component would be targeted to LGUs in the 3rd through 6th income classes, in line
with the government's policy of encouraging more creditworthy (and higher income class) LGUs to tap
market-based fnancing. At present, 1,344 LGUs fall into the 3rd through 6th income classes. The
eligibility criteria for an LGU to participate in the LOGOFIND project are presented in Annex 2b.
Higher-income LGUs in the 1st and 2nd income classes could also access LOGOFIND funding on a
case-by-case basis for social and environmental subprojects.
Funding for LGU subprojects would be provided by the MDFO as a mix of loans and limited grants that
would complement equity contributions from the participating LGUs. The loan/grant/equity mix for
LOGOFIND subprojects is derived primarily from the ICC-approved policy governing cost-sharing
arrangements between the national government and local government projects. Annex 2c shows the
proposed loan/grant/equity mix by subproject types and income classes of LGUs. This financing mix is
structured primarily to encourage local government investment in environmental and social subprojects and
to provide resource-poor LGUs with opportunities to access financing for basic municipal infrastructure
and services. Provisions will be made in the LOGOFIND Operation Manual to revise the loan/grant/equity
mix, if necessary, during project implementation.
Project Component 2 - US$8.3 million
LGU Training and Capacity Building: This component would support LGU training and capacity
building for (i) subproject development and implementation; (ii) municipal planning, finances, and
management; (iii) improved training modules and delivery mechanisms; and (iv) piloting of new programs
including distance learning; LGU twinning; collaboration with the Leagues of local governments, NGOs
and the private sector; MDFO conferences and workshops; and a rapid-response ("just-in-time") technical
assistance to LGUs. This component would be coordinated and managed by the DOF. The Municipal
Training Program (MTP) of the DILG's Local Government Academy (LGA) is likely to play a key role in
the implementation of this component. The responsibilities and financial arrangements for MTP's
involvement in this component will be spelled out in a MOA between DOF and DILG, which will be signed
as a condition of effectiveness. The component would finance (a) the cost of training including training
materials, equipment and allowances, and payment to trainers; and (b) project staff development, and
advisory and consulting services.
The MTP has outlined the main elements of the proposed LGU training and capacity building component,
expanding upon the municipal training program modules already developed under the previous World
-21 -



Bank-funded municipal development projects (i.e., MDP 1, 2 and 3). The LOGOFIND-supported training
for LGUs would be divided into two categories: (i) mandatory; and (ii) demand-driven, depending on the
needs and capacities of participating LGUs. A preliminary list of the LGU training modules is available in
the project files.
Project Component 3 - US$ 16.5 million
LGU Resource Mobilization and Monitoring: This component would support LGU Resource
Mobilization and Monitoring including: (a) expanding the Real Property Tax Administration (RPTA)
Program to achieve nation-wide coverage; (b) developing and implementing new initiatives to help LGUs
improve creditworthiness and revenue generation; and (c) developing and implementing systems to improve
monitoring of LGU fiscal performance and local financial reporting and disclosure. This component would
be administered by the Bureau of Local Government Finance of the DOF, and would finance consultancy
services, contractual staff, equipment and supplies, and training of staff. A detailed description of this
component is provided in Annex 2d.
Project Component 4 - US$12.2 million
MDF Reorganization and Strengthening: This component would support the MDF Reorganization and
Strengthening to implement, on a phased basis, new institutional structures; streamlined procedures and
approvals; decentralized (field) operations; and contracting and training of management and staff. A
description of the structure and functions of the MDF and its proposed reorganization and strengthening
plan is presented in Annex 2e. Specific activities funded under this component include: (i) salaries of
contracted staff; (ii) office equipment and technology; (iii) operating costs of the MDFO Central and field
offices; and (iv) MDF staff development and technical assistance.
-22 -



Annex 2a
Philippines
Local Government Finance and Development Project
List of Subprojects Eligible for LOGOFIND Funding
Infrastructure Proiects
Revenue Projects
*      Markets
*      Slaughterhouses
*      Municipal water supply system (expansion and rehabilitation)
*      Municipal piers and wharves
*      Bus and jeepney transport terminals
*      Post harvest facilities
*      Cold storage and ice plants
Non-Revenue Projects
*      Local roads, bridges, street furniture and lighting
*      Flood control and drainage
Social Proiects
*      Health centers
*      School buildings
*      Community/area upgrading
Environmental Proiects
i      Sanitation/public toilets and combined sewers
*      River/seashore protection (e.g., seawalls, embankments)
*      Solid waste management
*      Traffic management and engineering
*      Open space and public memorial parks
Consultancy Services
*      Project preparation and feasibility studies
*      Detailed engineering and construction contract management
*      Urban development plans
Ecquipment
*      Maintenance
*      Operating equipment (related to above subprojects)
-23 -



Annex 2b
Philippines
Local Government Finance and Development Project
Eligibility Criteria for an LGU to Participate
The LOGOFIND project would be open to all 3rd through 6th income class LGUs. Higher income
LGUs in the 1 st and 2nd income classes could also access such funding on a case-by-case basis for
environmental and social subprojects. If an LGU wishes to obtain funds under the project, it must satisfy
the following requirements:
Primarv Eligibility Screening Criteria
(a)   there must be an expressed interest and commitment through a local Sanggunian resolution
endorsing the project;
(b)   the proposed project must be identified as a priority in the LGU's development plan;
(c)   the LGU should have sufficient capacity to repay its borrowings including the LOGOFIND loan
and to contribute the required equity to finance the project;
Supporting Eligibility Screening Criteria
(d)   the LGU should have implemented an up-dated Revenue Code, as prescribed by the Local
Government Code, and be prepared to adopt a fiscal and management improvement reform program
required for effective project execution and debt servicing;
(e)   the LGU should be prepared to assign qualified technical staff, office space and budget to oversee
project preparation and implementation;
(f)   the LGU should be willing to post or publish, in a location accessible to the general public and in
accordance with COA regulations, basic information about the MDF subloan and subproject including the
subloan amount, subproject costs, and contract awards; and
(g)    for LGUs applying for a second or subsequent MDF subloan, they should meet the following:
(i)    a good track record of voluntary payment of debt service, and
(ii)   satisfactory implementation and maintenance performance under previous subprojects.
-24 -



Annex 2c
Philippines
Local Government Finance and Development Project
LOGOFIND Proposed Loan-Grant-Equity Mix
LGU INCOME CLASS                                     Loan %            Grant %          Equity %
I. Infrastructure Project
A. Markets/Slaughterhouses
Ist - 2nd                                   N/A              N/A              N/A
3rd - 4th                                   70                10 Al            20
5th - 6th                                   75                15 A/            10
B. Municipal Water Supply Project B/
Ist - 2nd                                   N/A              N/A              N/A
3rd - 4th                                   80               0                 20
5th - 6th (Level 1)                         40                50               10
(Level 2 & Above)                 90                0                10
C. Other Infrastructure Projects
lst - 2nd                                   80               0                20
3rd - 4th                                   85                0                15
5th - 6th                                   90                0                10
IL Social Projects
A. Health Centers/School Buildings
Ist - 2nd                                   80               0                20
3rd - 4th                                   35                50               15
5th - 6th                                   20                70               10
B. Community/area upgrading                        TBD              TBD              TBD
III. Environmental Project C/
A. River/Seashore Protections
1st                                        60                20               20
2nd- 3rd                                   35                50               15
4th - 6th                                  20                70               10
B. Other Environmental Projects
1st - 2nd                                 80                0                20
3rd - 4th                                  85               0                 15
5th - 6th                                  90               0                 10
IV. Consulting Services/Equipment
Ist - 2nd                                 80                0                20
3rd- 4th                                   85               0                 15
5th - 6th                                  90               0                 10
A/ Environmental-related investments are estimated to represent 20% of total sub-project costs. The MDF grant would cover 50% of the costs of the
environment-related investment for 3rd - 4th class LGUs and 70% for 5th and 6th class LGUs.
B/ Grants will only be provided for Level I (point source development) sub-projects for 5th and 6th class LGUs.
C I Grants for environmental sub-projects are consistent with the financing mix established under the CBRM project. Only Blue (and Green)
environmental sub-projects would receive grants.
TBD - To be determined by DOF in consultation with World Bank.
-25 -



Annex 2d
Philippines
Local Government Finance and Development Project
LGU Resource Mobilization and Performance Monitoring Component
1.    The proposed LGU Resource Mobilization and Monitoring component of LOGOFIND, which
would be coordinated and managed by the Bureau of Local Government Finance (BLGF) of the
Department of Finance (DOF), includes two primary activities: (i) efforts to enhance LGU Resource
Mobilization, including improvements to the Real Property Tax Administration (RPTA) Program and
piloting other potential improvements in local revenues, and (ii) activities to improve LGU Performance
Monitoring and Financial Reporting. The procurement of various types of equipment to support these two
activities, as noted below, is also included in this component.
2.    The activities under this component are envisioned to extend generally over two phases: (i) a
diagnostic phase, expected to last for one year, and (ii) an implementation phase, expected to last for two
years. Some implementation activities (e.g., training) may be undertaken before the diagnostic phase is
completed. A Terms of Reference guiding the diagnostic phase of this component is included as Annex 2e.
3.    LGU Resource Mobilization and Performance Monitoring Action Plan --The DOF and the
Bank agreed on the following action plan for developing and implementing the above component.
Improved Ability to Monitor LGU Fiscal Performance
*  Local fiscal performance indicators are developed  March 30, 2000
*  Database of revised fiscal indicators is completed  March 31, 2001
*  Revised formats for LGU fiscal reports are established  September 30, 2001
*  Computerized fiscal information system is operational  March 31, 2002
*  LGU fiscal monitoring reports are disseminated     June 30, 2002
Improved Local Resource Mobilization
Local best practice in resource mobilization is documented  February 28, 2000
Model for computer-assisted local business tax is developed December 31, 2000
Local business tax collections for participating LGUs
increase by at least 20%                         December 31, 2001
Real property tax collections for participating LGUs
increase by at least 20%                         July 31, 2002
RPTA system installation is completed              December 31, 2005
LGU Resource Mobilization
4.    The sustainability of LOGOFIND sub-projects depends in large part on the ability of LGUs to
enhance their local resource mobilization, both to support the operation and maintenance of sub-projects
and to promote local self-reliance. The LGU Resource Mobilization component will expand the coverage
of the RPTA and pilot other ways to enhance local revenue mobilization.
- 26 -



Real Propertv Tax Administration Project
5.    The RPTA, which is currently administered by the BLGF, has successfully increased local
property tax revenues (on average by 40 percent at project end), enhanced the information base of the RPT,
and strengthened the skills of assessment and treasury personnel in project management and maintenance
operations. Analyses of the cost effectiveness of the RPTA may understate the full benefits of the program
in that property tax revenue increases accruing to barangays and provinces were excluded from the cost
effectiveness calculation. The World Bank's recent Performance Audit Report of the Municipal
Development Project and Second Municipal Development Project (dated 12 June 1997) noted the
satisfactory performance of these projects and recommended the continued support of the RPTA program
to capture the tax revenues associated with rapidly rising property values.
6.    The main phases of the RPTA include: (i) tax mapping that identifies real property units,
establishes property boundaries, deternines actual use and discovers undeclared properties; (ii) records
conversion and management that converts tax mapping information into individual property reports and
collective assessment rolls, and installs and maintains a basic records management system in the local
assessment office; (iii) tax collection enforcement that reviews and revises existing collection procedures to
enhance revenue collections; and (iv) data computerization that establishes a computer-assisted database
for the RPTA.
7.    RPTA activities under LOGOFIND would continue the program carried out under the three
Municipal Development Programs and fund the additional contractual staff, equipment and supplies
necessary to achieve nationwide coverage. Nationwide coverage requires adding 524 LGUs to the RPTA
program, including non-urban areas that face lower economic growth rates. To date, 832 LGUs have
completed the RPTA program and 300 LGUs are currently participating in the RPTA program. Hence of
the 1,607 cities and municipalities in the Philippines, 63 percent have participated in the RPTA. RPTA
activities under this component will focus on enhancing cost effectiveness and collection efficiency by
requiring participating LGUs to increase revenue collections and recover program costs within a five-year
period, developing automated systems rather than relying on manually based systems, and focusing on
improvement in collection rather than assessment. A detailed Project Implementation Plan, including a
schedule of completion of each phase, expected improvements in RPT collections, required inputs
(contractual staff, equipment, supplies, office space, etc.), and estimated costs, would be prepared for each
participating LGU.
8.    The RPTA program under LOGOFIND is expected to cover about 6 million real property units in
524 LGUs. The total cost is estinated at about P477,000,000 (about US$12 million equivalent), using an
average cost of P80 per real property unit. These costs would be shared between the national government
and local counterparts, as discussed below in paragraph (9). Assuming continuation of the existing cost
sharing arrangements between the national government and LGUs implies a component cost of P286.6
million (or US$7.1 million).
9.    Since the RPTA program was established, LGU participation has been encouraged by providing a
grant to participating LGUs to finance part of the cost of contractual staff, equipment and supplies required
to implement the RPTA. The existing cost-sharing arrangements between DOF/BLGF and LGUs for the
RPTA program differ according to LGU income class as follows:
-27 -



Existing Cost Sharing Arrangements Between for LOGOFIND RPTA Activities
Income Class  DOF Grant   LGU Equitv
1-2          60%           40%
3-4          70            30
5-6          80            20
10.   In light of ICC guidelines establishing a 50-50 cost-sharing arrangement between the national
government and provinces, the DOF and BLGF are currently assessing the appropriate cost-sharing
arrangements for the RPTA and other technical assistance provided to LGUs to enhance their revenue
mobilization. The Bank project would fund the National Government's share of the program, i.e. the DOF
grant to the LGUs. A Memorandum of Agreement would be signed between DOF (through BLGF) and
participating LGUs that would specify the work program, resource requirements and financing
arrangements based on the Project Implementation Plan.
Piloting of Improvements in Local Resource Mobilization
11.   Business taxes, licenses and fees are increasingly important revenue sources for LGUs, accounting
on average for 10 percent of LGU revenues. Methods to enhance these local revenues -- including
broadening tax maps to include business establishments; computerizing the administration of business
taxes, licenses and fees; and developing local taxpayer education and promotion programs -- would be
reviewed and piloted in a selected number of LGUs in this component.
12.   A diagnostic of the experience of LGUs that have both completed the RPTA and successfully
increased revenues from business taxes, licenses and fees will be conducted. Potential sites include
Mandaluyong, Muntinlupa, Santa Rosa and Malolos. The results of this diagnostic will be used to
develop software for computerizing business tax administration systems, and for piloting successful
approaches in approximately 150 LGUs in the 3rd through 5th income classes that have at least 1,000
business establishments. This subcomponent -- including diagnostic, software development and piloting
activities -- is expected to cost P37 million (US$0.9 million).
13.   A final element of this component would be to identify and pilot a limited number of financial
arrangements that have been used to enhance local resource mobilization in the Philippines and elsewhere.
The measurement, monitoring and dissemination of these "best practices" can offer a demonstration effect
and promote "healthy" competition among LGUs in enhancing local revenue mobilization. Innovative
approaches to private sector participation and contract management, inter-local cooperation, and asset
management will be identified and documented, and piloted on a limited basis to selected LGUs. For
example, the experience of Mandaluyong City in Metro Manila (which uses a management contract
arrangement for its public market) would be documented and evaluated, as well as other sites considering
such arrangements (e.g., Santa Rosa). The Municipal Development Fund's experience in requiring revenue
enhancement plans for participating LGUs will also be reviewed, and successful experiences piloted in
other LGUs.
14.   The specific activities for this "best practices" subcomponent include conducting diagnostic
reviews (four in total) of successful approaches to: (i) private sector participation, (ii) inter-local
cooperation, (iii) asset and financial management, and (iv) the efficacy of revenue enhancement plans. The
results of these diagnostics would then be disseminated to LGUs participating in LOGOFIND, and funds
for technical assistance would be made available to pilot these approaches in three to four LGU
subprojects. This subcomponent -- including the four diagnostics and technical assistance to pilot these
- 28 -



activities -- is expected to cost P3 million (US$0.1 million).
LGU Performance Monitoring and Financial Reporting
15.   The primary objectives of this work are to enhance the ability of the BLGF to monitor and analyze
LGU fiscal performance, and to enhance LGU financial reporting. While this objective is consistent with
the BLGF's mission to formulate and execute policies concerning the development of the financial viability
of local governments, the demands of administering the MDF and deficient local fiscal data have precluded
it from fully meeting this responsibility. For example, LGU fnancial data are often released with
considerable delays, contain inconsistencies, and are presented in a format that is difficult to understand.
Improvements in the quality and timeliness of fiscal information are required to monitor the revenue and
expenditure performance of LGUs and their overall level of indebtedness, analyze LGU creditworthiness,
attract investors to municipal bonds or other private sector activities such as BOT ventures, and to analyze
the impact of various govermnent policies on LGUs. And if LGU borrowing expands as envisaged in the
DOF's new policy framework, the BLGF must be able to monitor LGUs borrowing activities more
thoroughly in order to assess the macroeconomic consequences of this expansion.
16.   These performance monitoring activities include: (i) monitoring the revenue and expenditure
performance of LGUs and their overall level of indebtedness, (ii) analyzing LGU creditworthiness, and (iii)
analyzing the impact of various govermment policies on LGUs. To perform this function effectively
requires improvements in the quality and timeliness of LGU fiscal data, new measures of performance
(including measures of creditworthiness), and improved technical capacity through the development of a
fiscal information system and training.
17.   The main activities included under this subcomponent include: (i) systems development and
automation of a fiscal information system, including data collection, and (ii) BLGF staff training and
capacity building. Systems development activities, including the design and development of the fiscal
information system and accompanying reports and manuals would be provided by an external consultant
working closely with the MIS Division of the BLGF. Data collection would be performed by BLGF
regional offices. These activities -- which would build on the diagnostic work of phase one -- are expected
to cost P20.5 million (US$ 0.5 million) and would be structured to extend over a two-year period.
18.   BLGF staff training and capacity building would include internal training, external training, and a
study tour for selected staff. Internal training would include a series of short courses (1-2 weeks) for 20-25
staff members in topics such as Statistics and Analytical Tools, Database Management, Fiscal Policy and
Analysis, Financial Analysis and Creditworthiness, Fiscal Performance Indicators, Data Entry and Control,
Technical Writing, that would be offered by local universities. External training would provide skills
development and comparative experience for selected senior staff members. A study tour to an
industrialized country to observe how local fiscal data are reported, monitored and used in analyzing
creditworthiness would be provided for approximately 10 staff members. Total training activities are
anticipated to cost P5 million (US$0.1 million), and to extend over a three-year period.
- 29 -



Equipment
18.   This category includes the procurement of computers, communications equipment, reference and
technical materials, and training equipment for the BLGF central and regional offices. This equipment is
needed to enhance the timeliness of informnation flows among the central and regional offices, and to
enhance the analytical capabilities of the BLGF. Equipment costs are estimated at P27.3 million (US$0.7
million).
- 30 -



Annex 2e
Philippines
Local Government Finance and Development Project
LGU Resource Mobilization and Performance Monitoring Component
I.    Introduction
1 .    An important component of the Department of Finance's (DOF) policy framework for LGU
financing of basic services and infrastructure projects is to expand LGU access to private sources of
financing. A potential obstacle to the development of such a market is the lack of timely and
understandable information about the financial performance of individual LGUs. Although financial data
about LGUs are reported annually by both the Bureau of Local Government Finance (BLGF) of the DOF
and the Commission on Audit (COA), these data are often released with considerable delays, contain
inconsistencies, and are presented in a fornat that is difficult to understand. Improvements in the quality
and timeliness of fiscal information would be useful in monitoring the revenue and expenditure performance
of LGUs and their overall level of indebtedness, in analyzing LGU creditworthiness, in potentially
attracting investors to municipal bonds or other private sector activities such as BOT ventures, and in
analyzing the impact of various government policies on LGUs.
2.    The BLGF is formally responsible for monitoring the fnancial affairs of local governments. This
monitoring function requires the regular review of revenue and expenditure performance, as well as LGU
borrowing. The desired expansion of LGU borrowing envisaged in the DOF's new policy framework may
have significant macroeconomic consequences; hence the BLGF must be able to monitor more thoroughly
the borrowing activities of LGUs.
II.    Objectives
3.    The primary objective of this work is to enhance the ability of the BLGF to monitor and analyze
the fiscal performance of LGUs. This requires irnprovements in the quality and timeliness of LGU fiscal
data, developing new measures of performance, and improved technical capacity through training and the
development of a fiscal information system. Specifically, the consultant will perform the following:
*     review the BLGF's current ability to collect information, analyze and monitor LGU fnancial
performance, and summarize these findings in an inception report,
recommend improvements to LGU fiscal data and reporting requirements,
develop standards or benchmarks to monitor LGU fiscal performance,
develop proposed policies for dealing with financially weak or bankrupt LGUs, and
*     develop a capacity building program for BLGF staff and a plan for computerizing its operations.
4.    The BLGF will assign as project manager, a senior staff member, who will manage the consultants
work and assure consistency with other government agencies.
-31 -



M.   Scove Of Work-
Task 1: Review the BLGF's current ability to collect, analyze and monitor LGU financial
performance
(a)    Conduct a detailed review of the Standard Government Chart of Accounts; the annual Consolidated
Fund Trial Balance prepared by COA; and the annual, consolidated Budget Operation Staternent (BOS),
and other financial reports prepared by the BLGF
(b)    Determine the appropriate level of aggregation/disaggregation of fiscal information, and whether
the BLGF should continue compiling fiscal information from the BOS report or whether it should use data
collected by COA as inputs
(c)   If the BOS report should be retained as an independent source of information, recommend
improvements in its coverage (i.e., consistency with the Chart of Accounts in reporting of expenditures)
(d)    Assess the usefulness of other fnancial reports issued by BLGF that monitor LGU financial
performance
Task 2: Recommend improvements to LGU fiscal data and reporting requirements
(a)    Draw a stratified, random sample of between 85 and 100 municipalities, stratified by income class,
reliance on different types of revenue, and the level of borrowing. From the stratified sample of LGUs,
assess the accuracy of the types of financial data reported in the COA audited reports by specific categories
(e.g., real property tax collections, economic development expenditures, etc.)
(b)    Develop detailed descriptions of appropriate items to be included in each category of the COA
report (e.g., releases of DBM vs. cash receipts, full costs of economic enterprises, etc.) to improve the
accuracy of reported information by drawing on actual experiences noted in Task 2 (a)
(c)    Work with BLGF staff, in coordination with COA, to create a "practical" classification manual to
be disseminated to LGUs to irnprove their inputs to COA reports
(d)    Work with BLGF staff and MTP/LGA to design a training program for LGU officials based on the
"practical" classification manual
(e)    For the stratified sample of LGUs, assess the historical accuracy of LGU data reported to COA
over the past three years, especially with regard to specific budget items or actions, and document the
itnpact of these items or actions on the accuracy of the data
(f)    Outline the procedures, data and resources necessary for the BLGF to institutionalize the
standardization of LGU fiscal data on an annual basis, including whether an interagency cooperative
agreement is necessary for the BLGF to gain access to all needed data in a timely manner
(g)    Based on a detailed review of the Standard Government Chart of Accounts, and the format of both
the annual Consolidated Fund Trial Balance submitted to COA, and the annual Budget Operation
Statement (BOS) submitted to the BLGF, recommend a new fiscal information format for reporting
existing annual information for each LGU. This fiscal information format should present the existing
financial data in a more relevant way, by, for example separating own source revenues from enterprise
- 32 -



revenues and transfers, operational expenditures from enterprise expenditures and debt service, etc. (See
Saldafia, 1992)
(h)    Create a "cross walk" between the categories of information reported in COA and BLGF reports
described above and the new fiscal information format. Describe the elements of the new fiscal information
fornat and how they relate to the COA and BLGF categories
(i)    For the stratified sample of LGUS, compile annual information from COA audited reports or other
sources (e.g., the Public Debt Office of COA, GFIs, etc.) to create a comprehensive database of LGU
borrowing by level of loan commitments, type of project (e.g., revenue generating), type of borrowing,
source of funds (ODA, GFI, BOT, commercial bank), IRA transfers committed by project, etc. Document
the process and resources necessary to expand the database to include all LGUs.
(j)    Recommend procedures for working with an interagency committee (PGB?) to establish quarterly
monitoring of new LGU-loan commitments from estimated activity from MDF and other ODA, GFIs, BOT
Center
Task 3: Develop standards or benchmarks to monitor LGU fiscal performance
(a)   In consultation with the staff of the BLGF, develop indicators of fiscal performance (e.g.,
own-source revenues as a share of total revenues, analysis of actual versus budgeted revenues and
expenditures, etc.) that can be inplemented with existing data
(b)    Apply the fiscal information format to a prototype LGU and develop a brief, "how to analyze fiscal
data" guide, based on the prototype financial data and indicators of fiscal performance
(c)    Outline the procedures, data and resources necessary for the BLGF to apply the fiscal information
format on an annual basis to the LGUs that it monitors
(d)    Work with staff of the BLGF, and the LGA or other designated training institution to develop a
training module on the fiscal information format and how to use it to analyze fiscal performance
(e)   Identify appropriate outlets for disseminating the "how to" guide to the private sector (e.g., through
the BOT Center or other venues), the GFIs and LGU citizens
(f)    Design a monthly or annual report to be produced by the BLGF that analyzes the fiscal
performance of LGUs in the aggregate, to be broadly disseminated within the DOF, GFIs, Banco Central,
etc.
(g)    Survey best practices -- both international and Filipino -- in local resource mobilization, including
issues such as enhancing collections from business taxes, licenses, fees, user charges and other revenues;
developing local taxpayer education and promotion services; encouraging private sector participation and
using contract management methods for local enterprises such as public markets; and establishing
interlocal cooperative agreements for joint revenue collection
Task 4: Develop proposed policies for dealing with financiall weak or bankrupt LGUs
(a)    Review the legal guidelines used to determine municipal bankruptcy in selected other countries.
Review existing legal guidelines for "insolvent" LGUs in the Philippines.
-33 -



(b)    Defne conditions associated with being an "insolvent" LGU (i.e., unable to meet debt service
requirements)
(c)    Delineate a matrix of possible national government responsibilities toward LGUs who are"
insolvent", which considers a range of options from no national government responsibility to responsibility
for some positive intervention (e.g., financial assistance, oversight, assumption of responsibilities, etc.).
Draft a policy statement for national government actions based on this matrix
Task 5: Develop a capacity building program for BLGF staff and a plan for computerizing its
operations
(a)    Provide training to the BLGF staff on the fiscal information format
(b)    Assess current skill mix and identify areas for further training (e.g., fiscal analysis, database
management, etc.) to assume enhanced role in policy analysis and formulation
(c)    Assess the BLGF's computerization of LGU fiscal data (i.e., BOS) and recommend improvements
to enhance the quality and timeliness of information; work with the BLGF MIS department to review
possibilities for regionalizing the MIS function of the BLGF
(d)   Identify opportunities to work with COA to share computerized fiscal information from their
annual audited financial statements of LGUs and their FISFAP system
IV.   Output
5.    The consultants will produce an inception report within one month of project execution, to be
submitted to the BLGF for approval. The final output of this work will be a study that includes the
following components:
recommended improvements to LGU fiscal data and reporting requirements,
standards or benchmarks to monitor LGU fiscal performance,
Filipino and international best practices in local resource mobilization,
proposed policies for dealing with financially weak or bankrupt LGUs, and
a capacity building program for BLGF staff and a plan for computerizing its operations.
The manuals and formats discussed in detail in the tasks will be included as annexes to the final study.
V.    Key Oualifications of Consultants
6.    The consultant team should be comprised of local consultants with the following key qualifications:
Public Finance Economist (Team Leader)
Research Assistants
- 34 -



Accountant
Management Information Specialist
- 35 -



Annex 2f
Philippines
Local Govermnent Finance and Development Project
MDF Structure, Functions, and Reorganizational Plan
1.    Background. The MDF was created in 1984 by Presidential Decree 1914 as a revolving fund for
Official Development Assistance (ODA)-funded projects but is presently only a disbursement mechanism
for ODA loans and grants. Institutional and financial arrangements for lending were established with the
support of the first World Bank-fnanced Municipal Development Project (MDP I), while the follow-on
MDP II project supported the expansion of the MDF to include financing for LGUs in Metro Manila and
its surrounding provinces. MDP III extended the LGU coverage of MDF while also strengthening the
administrative procedures and revising the lending terms toward market rates prevailing in the Philippines.
Another Bank-supported operation, the Regional Cities Development Project, was channeled through the
MDF. The MDF has been expanded to become the main channel for ODA assistance for LGUs, absorbing
both the Metro Cebu Development Project funded by Japan and the USAID's Local Resources
Mobilization Program. The MDF is gradually expanding its operations beyond urban centers to rural areas
and to environmental projects through the recently-approved Agrarian Reform Communities Development
Project and the Community-Based Resource Management Project, respectively, both of which are funded
by the Bank.
2.    The MDF has operated mainly as a fund channeling mechanism for both foreign and local funds
under donor-assisted projects. Loan recovery has been very good, with no existing defaults, due both to
strong collection efforts by BLGF and the occasional use of the IRA intercept in cases where LGU
repayments have been tardy. At the beginning of 1998, repayments to the MDF totaled over Pesos 1.3
billion.
3.    Current Organizational Structure and Functions of MDF. The MDF is currently located within
the Bureau of Local Government Finance (BLGF) under DOF. Its lending operations are overseen by an
MDF Policy Governing Board (MDF-PGB), which is chaired by the Undersecretary of DOF and includes
representatives of the DBM, DILG, DPWH, and the National Economic and Development Authority
(NEDA). The membership and functions of the MDF-PGB and the policies of the MDF were laid down in
1992 in an MDF-PGB Resolution (No. 01-92-MDF; a copy is in the project files). For each of the projects
whose funds are channelled through the MDF, there is a Central Projects Office (CPO) which supports the
promotion and development of subprojects, appraises the subprojects, and monitors and coordinates project
implementation. For example, under the MDPs, the CPO has been located in the DPWH. In addition, each
project has had a Project Steering Committee which provides policy guidance, approves subprojects and
coordinates the involved agencies in project planning, financing and coordination.
4.    Planned Reorganization of MDF.
4.1    The DOF plans to reorganize and strengthen the MDF in two phases, with support of the
LOGOFIND project. Under the first phase, which is expected to take three years, a new Office of the
Municipal Development Fund (MDFO) has been created within the DOF (see below), and will be staffed
with full-time professionals. The MDFO will handle subproject promotion and supervision, as well as
subproject appraisal and subloan disbursements and collections. The MDFO will also support
implementation of the CBRM Project.
4.2    On April 29, 1998, the MDF-PGB passed two resolutions, one endorsing the creation of a
- 36 -



LOGOFIND CPO and another supporting the phased reorganization of the MDF including the formation
of a new MDFO in DOF. On November 20, 1998, the President of the Philippines signed Executive Order
(EO) No. 41 entitled "Reorganizing the Administrative Structure of the Municipal Development Fund,
Consolidating its Functions in the Departnent of Finance and For Other Purposes". This EO officially
creates within the DOF, the MDFO and describes its main functions and organizational principles. DOF
shall issue a Department Order implementing EO 41 and shall designate the key officers of the MDFO.
Details on the plan for setting up and staffing the MDFO have been prepared by DOF consultants and are
summarized in a table below. The DOF is now finalizing the MDFO staffing (plantilla) positions.
4.3    The second phase of the MDF reorganization will involve the spin-off or transfer of the functions
and responsibilities of the MDFO to an existing or new fnancial institution. At present, DOF is
considering three options: (i) transferring the administration of the MDF, as a fund, to a subsidiary of an
existing GFI; (ii) transferring the assets and liabilities (and the risks) of the MDF to a subsidiary of an
existing GFI; or (iii) creating a new GFI, or municipal development bank to own and operate the MDF.
The various legal and administrative actions required to implement these changes and the expected time of
their completion is included in the MDF reorganizational plan that DOF and the Bank agreed to at
negotiations (see below). Before the transfer actually takes place, the Bank will assure its full satisfaction
ahead of time with what responsibilities, obligations, risks and liabilities would be transfers to the financial
institution, and how much compengation would be provided to the financial institution as well.
4.4    Consultants to the DOF have already outlined the enabling actions required to implement the three
options for transferring the MDF to a GFI described above. This information is summarized below.
OPTIONS                                ENABLING ACTIONS
1. Transferring the administration of the MDF, as a a. DOF decision which: (i) endorses the transfer of
fund, to a subsidiary of an existing GFI     the function and operations of the MDF to a
newly-created subsidiary of a GFI; (ii) provides
guidelines for the terms and conditions under which
the GFI will administer the MDF on behalf of DOF;
and (iii) provides policy guidance for the
management of the MDF, as part of the GFI.
b. Signing of the Memorandum of Agreement
between the DOF/MDFO and the GFI for the
transfer of the administration of the MDF and the
creation of a subsidiary to manage its funds.
c. Passage of Republic Act authorizing the transfer
of the administration of MDF as a fund or
subsidiary of an existing GEl.
d. Approval of Articles of Incorporation pertaining
to the operation of the MDF as a subsidiary of the
GFI.
-37-



2. Transferring the assets and liabilities (and the a. DOF decision which: (i) endorses the transfer of
risks) of the MDF to a subsidiary of an existing GFI the assets, function and operations of the MDF to a
newly-created subsidiary of a GFI; and (ii) provides
guidelines for the management of the MDF by the
subsidiary.
b. Signing of the Memorandum of Agreement
between the DOF/MDFO and the GFI for the
transfer of the assets and administration of the MDF
and the creation of a subsidiary to manage its funds.
c. Passage of a Republic Act authorizing the
transfer (and risks) of the MDF to a subsidiary of an
existing GFI and designating the public officer who
will execute the contract on behalf of the Republic
of the Philippines.
d. Issuance of a Deed of Assignment between the
Republic of the Philippines and the existing GFI.
e. Approval of Articles of Incorporation pertaining
to the operation of the MDF as a subsidiary of the
GFI.
3. Creating a new GFI or LGU development    a. DOF decision which (i) endorses the transfer of
bank/corporation to own and operate the MDF.    the assets, function and operations of the MDF to a
newly-created GFI; and (ii) provides guidelines for
the management of the MDF by the GFI.
b. Passage of a Republic Act creating a new GFI
and providing for the transfer of the MDF funds to
the new GFI.
c. Approval of Articles of Incorporation pertaining
to the operation of the MDF as a subsidiary of the
GFI.
- 38 -



4.5 Action Plan for Reorganizing the MDF. The DOF and the Bank agreed on the following action plan
for implementing the MDF reorganization.
ACTION                                    TARGET DATE
Issuance of MDF-PGB resolution creating the MDFO                    May, 1998 (completed)
Submission of MDFO staffing (plantilla) positions for 1999 to DBM   June, 1998 (completed)
Request to DBM for inclusion of LOGOFIND budget in 1999 DOF budget    July, 1998 (completed)
Endorsement of the Office of the President of an Executive Order creating  December, 1998
MDFO under DOF (EO 41)                                              (completed)
MDFDO-PGB approval to appoint an MDFO Executive Director and form an  January, 1999
Ad Hoc Committee to draft implementing rules and regulations (IRR) for  (completed)
E041
Submission to DBM of proposed MDFO staffmg positions for first two years   End-February, 1999
of operations
Appointment of an MDFO Executive Director and creation of an Ad Hoc  End-March, 1999
Committee to prepare the IRR
Completion of implementing rules and regulations for E041           End-April, 1999
Issuance of DOF department order to implement IRR; DBM approval of  End-May, 1999
MDFO staffmng positions; and commencement of recruitment/hiring of MDFO
staff
Completion of recruitment of key MDFO staff                         End-September 1999
Assessment of MDFO Performance and consultation with World Bank     End-June, 2000
DOF Decision of Option for Spinning Off/Transferring MDFO (see PAD for   End-December, 2000
discussion of Options and Enabling Actions)
Drafting and Submission to Congress of proposed legislation, if necessary  End-March, 2001
Expected Spin Off/Transfer of MDFO                                  End-March, 2003
-39 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PHILIPPINES: Local Government Finance & Development Project (LOGOFIND)
Wmmm    'R On                                         "M Ioca.,oreiI Tota
LGU Subprojects                                            54.7          41.0         95.7
LGU Training and Capacity Building                          8.0           0.3          8.3
LGU Resource Mobilization and Monitoring                   11.3           5.2          16.5
MDF Reorganization and Strengthening                       10.3           1.9          12.2
Total Baseline Cost                                        84.3          48.4        132.7
Physical Contingencies                                     0.0           0.0          0.0
Price Contingencies                                        0.0           0.0          0.0
Total Project Costs               84.3         48.4         132.7
Front-end fee                      1.0          1.0
Total Financing Required               84.3          49.4         133.7
-40 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
PHILIPPINES: Local Government Finance & Development Project (LOGOFIND)
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
d- i! Presetal f Flows                         FJa -' -a' t
Economic       F           ,a. -
Benefits:
Costs:
Net Benefits:      20.1 mn.      61.2 in.      13.4 mn
IRR:                   17%
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Economic benefits from LOGOFIND will result predominantly from its subprojects. Since the actual mix
of subprojects will be demand-driven, projections were made based on the probable types of subprojects to
be proposed by LGUs (which reflect the experience of previous Municipal Development Projects.) The
benefits for markets, bus terminals and slaughterhouses include revenues generated from these subprojects,
while nonmonetary benefits were analyzed for other subprojects (e.g., savings in maintenance costs and
medical expenses for shore protection subprojects, savings in time and fuel for road and traffic
management subprojects, and improved sanitation valued in terms of willingness to pay for water and
toilets). Costs include capital investment and maintenance expenditures. The total project cost, which
includes subproject costs and the cost of other components such as training, Local Resource
MobilizationlRPTA and technical assistance. These costs were deducted from the benefits of the
subprojects and the entire project registered a 17% economic rate of return with a net present value (NPV)
of P804,160,294 at a 14% interest rate.
Main Assumptions:
The Economic Rates of Returns (ERR) for potential LOGOFIND projects were estimated based on
established cost-benefit methodologies used in previous Municipal Development Projects. The ERR for the
overall investment is estimated at 17%, including the costs of capacity building and technical assistance
activities. Seven representative subprojects were analyzed: (a) markets, (b) bus terminals, (c)
slaughterhouses, (d) roads, (e) traffic management, (f) shore protection and (g) sanitation facilities. The
first four categories of subprojects are revenue generating, while the last two categories reflect
environmental subprojects. The ERR of potential social subprojects was not calculated due to their
non-quantifiable benefits.
Table 1: Average Rates of Return of Representative Subprojects
Subproiect                  Average Rate of Return
Markets                            30%
Bus terminals                      27
Slaughterhouses                    35
-41 -



Roads                               49
Traffic management                  41
Shore protection                    45
Sanitation facilities               19
Note: rates of return from markets, bus terminals, and slaughterhouses are based on revenues generated
from the subprojects. Rates of return from the other subprojects are based on non-monetary benefits.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The two prime risks for the project are: (a) a delay in subproject implementation, and (b) lower demand for
subprojects than originally anticipated. Lessons learned from previous municipal development projects --
which were characterized by considerable rates of return -- will be used to reduce these potential risks in
LOGOFIND. Table 2 presents a sensitivity analysis for the two identified risks. A one-year delay in the
implementation of subprojects reduces the rate of return to 14% (a two percentage point decrease from the
base case.) If 50% fewer subprojects are implemented, the rate of return falls to 10%. Other standard
tools of sensitivity analysis, such as consideration of a 25% increase in costs corresponded to a 14% ERR
while a 25% decrease in benefits also corresponded to a 14% ERR. Combining a 25% increase in costs
and a 25% decrease in benefits results in an ERR of 12%.
Table 2: Sensitivity Analysis of Subproject Packages
1-Year Delay  50% Fewer   25% decrease in revenues +
Base case     in Suburoiects Subproiects   25% increase in investment costs
ERR             17%              14%           10%               12%
Financial Analysis of Representative Subprojects
Table 1 (above) presents the representative LGU subprojects for LOGOFIND with the corresponding
average rates of return. Since the subprojects are demand driven, as previously mentioned, projections
were made on the probable types of subprojects to be proposed by the LGUs. These probable types
became the basis for estimating the financial rates of return. The detailed assumptions on how each rate of
return was computed for each representative subproject are contained in the project files. For
revenue-generating projects, slaughterhouses provided the highest rate of return (35%) compared to
markets and terminals with 30% and 27%, respectively. For nonrevenue generating projects, roads
registered the highest rate of return of 49%, while shore protection, traffic management and sanitation
facilities registered rates of return of 45%, 41%, and 19%, respectively.
If the difference between the present value of fmancial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
-42 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PHILIPPINES: Local Government Finance & Development Project (LOGOFIND)
Years Ending
(US$ million, 1998 Rrices
I Year 1     Year2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            2.1        7.2       10.6        18.0      21.8        17.5       9.9
Recurrent Costs                         5.5        7.9       10.4        8.3        7.4       5.9
Total Project Costs           2.1       12.7        18.5       28.4       30.1       24.9      15.8
Front-end fee     1.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing               3.1       12.7        18.5       28.4       30.1       24.9      15.8
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    2.8       10.1       14.8       21.9       22.2      17.8        10.3
Government                  0.3        1.3        1.2        1.8        1.8       1.6         1.5
Central                 0.0        1.3        2.5         4.7        6.2       5.5        4.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries     0.0        1.3        2.5        4.7        6.1       5.5        4.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      3.1       12.7        18.5       28.4       30.1      24.9       15.8
I Year1 I   Year 2  I Year 3  I Year 4  I YearS 6        Year 6  I Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Front-end fee    0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing              0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Government                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Main assumptions:
As the project is demand driven, it is difficult to forecast the specific subproject activities that LGUs will
invest in; consequently, it is difficult to predict investment or financial requirements during the
- 43 -



implementation period. More refined estimates of project costs (covering investrnent and recurrent
expenditures) and financing sources will be provided by the GOP team at project appraisal.
-44 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PHILIPPINES: Local Government Finance & Development Project (LOGOFIND)
Procurement
All procurement for the implementation of subprojects, financed by the loan/grantlequity mix, would be
undertaken by the LGUs and supervised by the MDFO. DOF would be responsible for procuring items for
the other components. All procurement under the project would follow the Bank guidelines (Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits of January 1995, revised January and August 1996 and
September 1997; and Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
of January 1997, revised September 1997). A procurement specialist, familiar with the Bank's guidelines
and the implementation of World Bank funded projects, will be hired as part of the management staff of the
MDFO.
Procurement methods (Table A)
a)    Civil Works:  Civil works will include the expansion, rehabilitation and improvement of basic
infrastructure, social and environmental facilities. Simplified procurement procedures, similar to shopping
among registered contractors, would be introduced for contracts under US$50,000, totalling about US$5.0
million. Quotations would be solicited from at least three registered contractors. Contracts equal to, or
larger than, US$50,000 equivalent each and totalling about US$85.0 million would be procured in
accordance with the National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. A
procurement side letter will be issued by the Govermnent detailing the procedures under local rules that are
not acceptable to the Bank, and which will not be followed under this loan. There will be no ICB for civil
works since the works are small, scattered geographically and not technically complex. The LOGOFIND
Operations Manual will include sample bidding documents developed in compliance with the World Bank
procurement guidelines and specifically designed for very small works. Postqualification of bidders shall
be done in accordance with para. 2.57 of the Guidelines.
b)    Goods:  Goods and equipment to be procured under the project include vehicles, computers and
office equipment. Sizable packages for contracts greater than US$200,000 each of goods, equipment and
materials suitable for procurement by ICB are not anticipated, but if it does take place, domestic preference
will be given. Therefore, goods will be suitably packaged into lots of less than US$200,000 and procured
according to NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Goods' contracts procured through NCB are
estimated to be about US$5.0 million equivalent. Contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent and
totalling about US$4.7 million would be procured according to national shopping procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Shopping should be based on comparing price quotations from at least three suppliers. Requests
for quotations should indicate the description and quantity of the goods as well as the desired delivery time
and place.
c)    Consultant's Services and Training:  About US$16.0 million and US$5.4 million would be
allocated to consultants services and training, respectively. The selection and appointment of consultants
would be done in accordance with the Guidelines specified under "Procurement Methods" above, and using
the Bank's Standard Request for Proposal - Selection of Consultants, dated July 1997 and revised April
1998. The selection of firms would be based on quality, and cost and single selection, while the selection of
individual consultants would be based on quality as reflected in their prequalifications and experience.
-45 -



d)    Salaries and Fees of Personnel Contributed by the Central and Local Government:   As a
contribution to the project, the central and local governments will contract and pay for personnel services
estimated at US$9.6 million. The procurement of these personnel services, funded by the Borrower, would
be done by the Borrower using its own procurement procedures.
e)    Incremental Operating Costs:  About US$11.6 million would be allocated to cover the
operating costs of the MDFO, including costs for office supplies and project staff travel and operating
costs of equipment and facilities, but excluding salaries.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All civil works contracts procured according to NCB with a value of at least $300,000 equivalent each, all
goods contracts procured according to NCB with a value of at least $100,000 equivalent each, and the first
five (5) civil works and goods contracts per year regardless of amounts will be subject to the Bank's prior
review. Prior review of civil works and goods include bidding documents, evaluation reports and draft
contracts. Prior review would also be required for contracts of individual consultants estimated to cost at
least US$50,000 equivalent, as well as for contracts of firms estimated to cost at least US$100,000
equivalent. Prior review procedures would apply regardless of the value of consultant's contracts with
respect to draft letters of invitation and contracts, terms of reference, sole source selection (if used),
qualification criteria, evaluation reports, award proposals and final contracts when substantial differences
to the original draft are made. For the contracting of management staff, prior review would only be
required for management positions. For the other contracts of civil works and goods not subjected to prior
review, the Bank will review them on a random sample basis, one out of five contracts, after they have been
awarded.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Allocation of the loan proceeds would be made against expenditure categories as shown in Table
C.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
For civil works and goods contracts below US$300,000 equivalent, consulting frmns contracts below
US$100,000 equivalent, individual consultant's contracts below US$50,000 equivalent, sub-loans and
grants, and all operating costs and training expenditures, withdrawal applications will be supported by
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). For civil works and goods contracts over US$300,000 equivalent,
consulting firms contracts over US$100,000 equivalent, and individual consultant's contracts over
US$50,000 equivalent, withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation and signed
contracts.
Special account:
To facilitate loan disbursements, the MDF will open and maintain a separate special deposit account in a
commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and
attachment. The SA, which would cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures in all disbursement
categories, would have an authorized allocation amounting to US$5.0 million with an initial withdrawal of
US$2.5 million to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the SA. The balance shall be
withdrawn when the amounts disbursed and committed total US$50.0 million. Applications to replenish
-46 -



the Special Account, supported by appropriate documentation, would be submitted regularly (preferably
monthly, but not less than quarterly) or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent of the initial deposit.
The SA shall be audited annually by the auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Advances from MDF to MDFO and its field offices, LGA, BLGF and LGUs: To facilitate project
implementation in a devolved environment, MDFO and its field offices, LGA, BLGF and LGUs may
request for a 90-day cash advance facility from MDF. Prior to granting this facility, MDFO, together with
the Bank's Financial Management Specialist, will assess the financial management capacity of the unit. If
the assessment result confirms that there is fnancial management capacity, the unit would be provided with
the 90-day cash advance facility. Each unit will then open two separate accounts; a World Bank Project
Account in the authorized government depository bank (local branch), and the other for GOP counterpart
funding - called Government Project Account. The concerned unit will submit its 90-day cash requirement
to MDFO, together with their work and financial plan. MDFO will review the request and will recommend
to MDF to release the 90-day cash requirement. Upon a receipt of such recommendation from the MDFO
and the financial management assessment result, MDF will transfer the 90-day cash advance to the unit's
World Bank Project Account. Monthly replenishment of such cash advances shall be required from each
unit. MDFO will monitor and control the transfer of cash advances to its field offices, and the submission
of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expenditures for purposes of monthly replenishment.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements:
One of the main objectives of the project will be to improve financial management of the participating
LGUs through technical assistance (see Annex 2e for details) to strengthen accounting, financial reporting
and auditing systems. This is a longer-term improvement program which will enhance the capacity of
BLGF to monitor the financial performance of the municipalities as well as the financial management and
fiscal performance of the municipalities. The improvements proposed go beyond the management of the
Bank-financed projects by embracing all aspects of revenues and expenditure management by the LGUs.
In order to ensure sound financial management of sub-project LGUs (the IAs), Financial Management
Units (FMUs) will have to be established at the MDFO central and field offices. The FMUs shall be
staffed with qualified and experienced financial analysts and financial management specialists who shall be
responsible for financial appraisal of sub-projects and project implementing agencies. The appraisals shall
include an assessment of the financial management systems and capability of the IAs. Based on this
assessment, FMU staff will prepare action plans to implernent the Financial Management Systems
acceptable to the Bank and assist the lAs in implementation. The staff will also review periodically the
financial management arrangements of sub-projects and the effectiveness of internal control procedures.
FMU staff of the MDFO will take overall responsibility for quality control of the work of field FMUs.
Project disbursements to implementing agencies (IAs) are routed through the MDF as sub-loans and/or
grants. The accounting policies and procedures of the MDF are governed by the Department of Budget and
Management (DBM) and COA Circular No. 2-97 of March 21, 1997. This circular describes the
accounting policies and procedures, the chart of accounts, and accounting entries. MDFO shall ensure that
all IAs maintain separate project accounts to record project-funded transactions. MDFO shall prepare
consolidated project accounts. In order to facilitate overall financial management of the project, MDFO
shall install the Financial Information System for Foreign Assisted Projects (FISFAP) and where
appropriate at their Regional offices. The Bank and COA have agreed that installation of FISFAP for
project accounting shall satisfy the financial management requirement for the Bank and the Government.
As part of FISFAP systems a set of standard project financial management reports shall be agreed upon for
-47 -



quarterly and annual financial reporting by IAs. All LAs are required to prepare the agreed standard
financial management reports quarterly and submit to the FMU at MDFO. These reports will be in a
format acceptable to the Bank and will be used for monitoring of project progress by the MDFO. The
FMU at MDFO will be responsible for consolidation of the IA financial management reports and the
consolidated reports will be submitted to the Bank quarterly. In addition, the MDFO will be responsible
for preparing annual consolidated project financial statements based on the financial statements prepared
by the IAs. MDFO will require that the IA financial statements are audited by COA, and an opinion
rendered thereon.
MDFO will be responsible for submission of the annual consolidated project financial statements for the
audit by COA. COA will perform an audit of the project fnancial statements and render an opinion
thereon. A separate audit of the operations of the Special Account and the withdrawal of expenditures
through SOEs will also be carried out by COA, who will likewise provide an opinion thereon. COA shall
also audit the operations of the 90-day cash advance facilities extended by MDF.
-48 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
9)". .d                                                       .... ti
~~~~~~~~~~~tG                                                       fB.F.   , oa ,  ..t
1. Works                             0.0            85.0            5.0            0.0            90.0
(0.0)        (72.8)          (4.3)          (0.0)          (77.1)
2. Goods                             0.0             5.0            4.7            0.0             9.7
(0.0)         (2.7)          (2.7)           (0.0)          (5.4)
3. Services                          0.0             0.0           21.4             0.0           21.4
(0.0)         (0.0)          (12.4)          (0.0)         (12.4)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.0             0.0            11.6           0.0            11.6
(0.0)          (0.0)          (4.1)           (0.0)          (4.1)
5. Front-end fee                     0.0             0.0            1.0            0.0             1.0
(0.0)         (0.0)          (1.0)           (0.0)          (1.0)
Total                             0.0            90.0           43.7             0.0           133.7
(0.0)        (75.5)          (24.5)         (0.0)          (100.0)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
-49 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms             16.3      0.0                   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       16.3
:___________  ______(0.0)  (0.0)    (0.0)      (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)
B. Individuals       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       5.1        0.0        5.1
(0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)      (1.9)      (0.0)      (1 .9)
Total   16.3       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       5.1        0.0       21.4
(0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)      (1.9)      (0.0)      (1.9)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guideleines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
- 50 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                  Less than 50      Simplified procedure   First 5 contracts each
similar to national    year (1.75)
shopping
50 and above            NCB             At least $300,000
(41.0)
2. Goods                  Less than 50       National Shopping    First 5 contracts each
year (1.75)
Less than 200            NCB            At least $100,000
(7.0)
3. Services          Individual, less than 100  Qualifications
All (25.3)
Firms, regardless of
value                QCBS
Firms for services
costing less than 100      Other
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    $76.8 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 51 -



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
A. Subloans and grants in            77.1                          90.0
support of subprojects.
B. Goods                             5.3              100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs) and 80% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
C. Consultants Services and          12.5                          100.0
Training
D. Miscellaneous                     4.1                           80.0
(Incremental Operating
Costs)
Total Project Costs                  99.0
Front-end fee             1.0                          100.0
Total                               100.0
- 52 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PHILIPPINES: Local Government Finance & Development Project (LOGOFIND)
'P fl'''t--   ''';k0"ui"-e -vimF
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  1 8                      28
Fimt Bank mission (identification)       10/13/96                    10/13/96
Appraisal mission departure              06/30/98                    06/30/98
Negotiations                             08/24/98                    02/16/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            04/30/99                    06/30/99
Prepared by:
Department of Finance, with support from other national agencies and consultants
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
a                      1e
Thomas L.                         Team Leader/Financial Specialist
Zearley
Dana Weist                        Senior Economist
Jose Antonio League               Operations Officer/Urban Specialist
P. Illangovan                     Environmental Specialist
Pramod Agrawal, Lanfranco         Resettlement Specialist
Blanchett--Revelli
Cecilia Vales                     ProcurementlDisbursement Specialist
Rene SD Manuel                    Procurement Specialist
Margaret Png                      Legal Counsel
Hung Kim Phung                    Disbursement Officer
James Ford                        Peer Reviewer
Tim Campbell                      Peer Reviewer
- 53 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PHILIPPINES: Local Government Finance & Development Project (LOGOFIND)
A. Project Implementation Plan
Includes Operations Manual prepared by LOGOFIND team and consultants.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Back-to-office reports in November 1996, February 1997, July 1997, October 1997, December 1997,
March 1998 and June 1998.
C. Other
LOGOFINDDocumentsfor Technical Discussions/Appraisal, Washington, DC, June 10-16, 1998,
Prepared by LOGOFIND Project Preparation Team, June 6, 1998.
LOGOFIND Project Preparation Report, April 1998, Prepared by Department of Finance and submitted
to the ICC Technical Board.
LGU Financing of Basic Services and Infrastructure Projects: A New Vision and Policy Framework,
Department of Finance, December 1997 (presented at Consultative Group Meetings in Tokyo).
Municipal Training Program, Summary of (LGA) Training Modules to be offered under LOGOFIND,
May 1998.
*Including electronic files
-54 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PHILIPPINES: Local Government Finance & Development Project (LOGOFIND)
Difference between expectec
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions         disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                     Purpose                                IBRD          IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Fnm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 126
PH-PE-39022    1999 PHILIPPINES                  LGU URB&WATER SANITA                    23.30        0.00        0.00      23.30      0.00      0.00
PH-PE-56524    1999 LBP                          BANIKG SYS REF (FSAL                   300.00        0.00        0.00     200.00      0.00      0.00
PH-PE-57598    1999 DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE P  RURAL FINANCE III                        150.00        0.00        0.00     150.00      3.34      0.00
PH-PE-57624    1999 REP OF PHILS                 PRIVATE ENT CREDIT                     150.00        0.00        0.00     150.00      1.50       0.00
PH-PE-4566     1998 GOP                          EARLYCHILDDEV.                          19.00        0.00        0.00      18.10      1.10       0.00
PH-PE4576      1998 GOP                          WATER DISTRICT DEV.                     56.80        0.00        0.00      56.80      7.04       0.00
PH-PE4595      1998 GOP                          COMMUNITY BASED RESO                    50.00        0.00        0.00      48.50      3.10      0.00
PH-PE-51386    1998 GOP                          SZOPAD SOCIAL FUND                      1QOO         0.00        0.00       9.50      2.25      0.00
PH-PE-37079    1997 SUBIC BAY METRO. AUTH.       AGRARIAN REFORM COMM                    50.00        0.00        0.00      45.81      4.85      0.00
PH-PE-40981    1997 REP OF PHILS.                SECOND SUBIC BAY                        60.00        0.00        0.00      58.12     41.62      0.00
PH-PE-4602     1997 GOP                          THIRDELEMEDUCATION                     113.40        0.00        0.00     110.35     44.01       0.00
PH-PE-4613     1997 GOP                          WATER RESOURCES DEVE                    58.00        0.00        0.00      53.94     22.28       0.00
PH-PE4571      1996 GOP                          TRANS GRID REINFORCE                   250.00        0.00        0.00     162.08    -20.94       0.00
PH-PE-4611     1996 LBP                          MNLA 2ND SEWERAGE PR                    57.00        0.00        9.00      48.00     37.17       3.34
PH-PE-4614     1996 GOVT OF THE PHILS            RURAL FINANCE II                       150.00        0.00        0.00      31.15    -22.85       0.00
PH-PE-4567     1995 NPCANDPNOC                   WOMENSHEALTH&SAFE                       18.00        0.00        0.00      15.54      4.79       0.00
PH-PE-4584     1994 GOVOF PHILIPPINES            LEYTE CEBU GEOTHERMA                   211.00        0.00        0.00      26.82     26.81       0.00
PH-PE-4607      1994 SBMA                        LEYTE LUZON GEOTHERM                   227.00        0.00        0.00      83.30     83.27       0.00
PH-PE-4609     1994 GOP                          SUBIC BAY FREEPORT                      40.00        0.00        0.00       2.91      2.25       0.00
PH-PE-4568     1993 GOP                          URB HEALTH & NUTRITI                     0.00       70.00        0.00      51.58     35.27       0.00
PH-PE-4589     1993 GOVT. OF PHILIPPINES         IRRIG OPER SUPP II                      51.30        0.00        0.00      19.02     18.08       0.00
PH-PE4599      1993 GOP                          TAX COMPUTERIZATION                     63.00        0.00        0.00      19.92     19.95       0.00
PH-PE4538      1992 GOP                          SECOND VOCATIONAL TR                     0.00       36.00        0.00       9.57      8.23       0.00
PH-PE-4592     1992 GOP                          MUNICIPAL DEV III                       68.00        0.00        0.00      27.84     25.84      12.84
PH-PE4597      1992 GOVT. OF PHILS.              HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT P                   150.00        0.00        0.00      40.93     39.21       2.46
PH-PE4558      1991 ROP                          ENV. & NAT. RES. MGT                   158.00       66.00        0.00      15.83     12.54       0.00
PH-PE4572      1991 R.P.                         COMMUNAL IRRIG. II                      46.20        0.00        3.34      13.51     16.87       2.34
PH-PE4552      1990                              COCONUTFARMSDEVT.                      121.80        0.00        0.85      31.35     32.21      19.81
Total:   2,651.80      172.00      13.19    1,523.77    449.79     40.79
Active         Closed
Projects       Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):   1,306.42               6,823.47        8,129.89
of which has been repaid:            47.23       3,748.32        3,795.55
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:   2,763.37                3,117.53        5,880.90
Amount sold:            0.00          31.35           31.35
of which repaid:           0.00          31.35           31.35
Total Undisbursed:   1,523.77                42.35       1,566.12
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
- 55 -



PHILIPPINES
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Dec- 1998
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval       Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1967/88           MERALCO                        8.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.67    0.00    0.00    0.00
1970/86/88/89     PLDT                          12.21    0.00    0.00    9.89   12.21    0.00    0.00    9.89
1974/79           Maria Cristina                 0.00    0.00    0.44    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.44    0.00
1979/90           General Milling                0.00    0.00    1.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.73    0.00
1980/82/89/90/94/95  AACT                       21.90    0.00    2.73    0.00   18.40    0.00    2.73    0.00
1989              H&QPV-I                        0.00    0.00    0.61    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.61    0.00
1990              Avantex Mill                   5.63    0.00    1.98    0.00    5.63    0.00    1.98    0.00
1992              Bacnotan                       4.20    0.00    5.63    3.00    4.20    0.00    5.63    3.00
1992              Pilipinas Shell                0.00   11.63    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.63    0.00    0.00
1993              H&QPV-ll                       0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00
1993              Pagbilao                      51.00    0.00   10.00    8.60   51.00    0.00   10.00    8.60
1993/94           Mindanao Power                 0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.26    0.00
1994              Walden Mgmt                    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00
1994              Walden Ventures                0.00    0.00    3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.88    0.00
1995              Sual Power                    30.00    0.00   17.50  196.00   21.30    0.00    0.00  151.20
1996              All Asia Growth                0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00
1996              All Asia Manager               0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00
1996              All Asia Venture               0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00
1997/98           Far East Bank                 25.00    0.00   15.00   50.00   25.00    0.00   10.00   50.00
1998              H&Q PV HI                      0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      158.61   11.63   77.97  267.49  146.41   11.63   45.76  222.69
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999              TRP                             0.00    0.08    0.00    0.00
1998              DRYSDALE                       15.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1998              PRYCE GASES                    10.00    0.00    3.00    5.00
1998              2/2/99                         45.00    0.00    0.00   15.00
1997              BATAAN P/E                     30.00    0.00   10.00  163.00
1997              MAGSAYSAY LINES                 8.00    3.00    0.00   26.50
1997              PT&T                           30.00    5.00    0.00   30.00
1967              MANILA ELECTRIC                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36
Total Pending Commitment:    138.00    8.08   13.00  249.86
- 56 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PHILIPPINES: Local Government Finance & Development Project (LOGOFIND)
Eat   Lowrt-                                         2V12199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                     ...                     Asia &   mIddie-
Phillpplsq*    Pacfic   Incon#      Development dlamond^
1997
Population, mid-year.(mtIons..)                       73.4      1,753     2,282                 Life expectancy
GNP pet capita (Atles methlo ,USS).                  1,200       970      1,230.
GNP (A/as method, US$ biliobns)                       881       1,707     Z818
Averase anniust growth, 1991497
Population 3%):                                        2.    t .S           12
Labor force (%) 2-7                                               IA        1.3     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most ricent estimat (tatet ear availaW. 1014-7)                                    capita                       enrollment
Povetty (% ofpopitlatlon beow national povet  e)    :.. S4
Urbar population (%Of total 0opuaOtion)                 se        32.       42
tjfeexpectaincy at birth (years)                        66         6S        69
Infanrt mortlity (Cer 1.000 live bilths)                36      .38          36
Child malnutrition (% of childrew under 5)              30        16      -                   Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  85        84         84
Illiteracy (% of pgoulation age 15+)                     5        17         19
Gross primaryenrollment  6 %ofschoolagepopulation)     117       118        114        -     Philippines
Male                                                  ..       120       116               Lower-middle-income group
Femrate                                               ..       119        113-
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS. and LONG-TER* TRENDS
-7       IS"       196      19.7
Economic ratios'
GOP (USS billions)                           17.2     29.8       82.9      82.2
Gross domestic fvestmentrODP                 32.9     16.0       24.0      24.8
Exports of goodsand services/GDP             19.3     26.3       40.6      49.0                     Trade
Gross domestic savingslGWI                   26.9     19%9       15.2      14.S
Gross nationalsavinWslGDP                    277       19.3      201       20.11
Current accourt balance/GOP                  8-6.4     3.2-- -4.8          -8S 2
tnterest payments/GOP                         1.0       3.8       2.0       21      Domestic                     Investment
Total debtUGDP                               35.1     94.5       48.4      S5i3     Savings
Totar debt service/exports                   18.9     33.7       13.4       9.2
Present value of debttGOP                                          ..      52.7
Present value of debt/exports         ..                                   88,1
Indebtedness
...1- --   978-86  19ti7497  t996  S107   1998-02
(average annoal owth)
GOP                                  1.8      3.2      58      . 5.2        4.0         -     Philippines
GNP per capita                      -0.8      1.4      4.8-       3.1       21                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of qoods and services        6.0      9.5     15.47 17,5            8.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(X of GDP)                                   1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                  29.3     23.9       20.6      18.7     20 .
Industry                                     35.7     34.6       32.1      32.2    to 
Manufacturing                               25.4     24.6      22.8      22.3 *
Services                                     35.1     41.5       47.3      49.2    -1.      92   93   94   95   96   97
-20
Private consumption                          62.3     72.1       72.9      72.6    -30
General government consumption               10.8      8.0       11.9      12.9               -G            -     GDP
Imports of goods and services                25.2     22.4       49.3      59.4
(average annual growth)                   1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   1.4       1.8       3.8       2.9    30
Industry                                      0.7      3.3        6.4       6.1
Manufacturing                                0.5      3.0       5.6       4.2
Services                                      3.2      3.8        6.4       5.5    io
Private consumption                           2.4      3.7        6.2       3.0 o
General government consumption               -0.3      3.9        4.1       1.6            92   a3   94   95   96   s7
Grossdomesticinvestment                      -3.2      6.2       12.5      11.7   -.o1
Imports of goods and services                 2.1     11.3       16.7      14.4             -     Exports     a  Imports
Gross national product                        1.5      3.8        7.2       5.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 57 -



Philippines
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                1976     1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                             20
Consumer prices                                  ..       0.7        8.4       5.0     15
Implicit GDP deflator                           8.3       3.0       7.7       6.1 10
Government finance                                                                     s
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     a
Current revenue                                  ..    13.0        18.9       19.5             92    93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                            ..      1.4       4.2       4.2                     GDP deflator  -O-CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                          ..        ..         ..      0.2
TRADE
(USS millions)                                 1976     1986       1996      1997       Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ..   4,842    20,543    25,228        40,000
Coconut oil                                     ..     333
Sugar                                           ..     103                    ..    30,000 -
Manufactures                                    ..   2,672      17,106    21,488
Total imports (cif)                              ..   5,044    31,885    36,355        20.000 -                *1
Food                                            ..     193       1,624     1,510     1,0  M
Fuel and energy                                        869      3,008      3,074
Capital goods                                  ..      839     10,472    14,369          0
Export price index (1995=100)                     .       76        100                       91  92  93   94  95   9j  97
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..      61        101        ..                     Exports     a imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..     124         99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1976      1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 3,262        7,702     33,490    40,365  
Imports of goods and services                 4,381       5,868    41,371    50,477 3      l
Resource balance                             -1,119    1,834     -7,881   -10,112
Net income                                     -253   -1,321      3,339     4,729                    I     I     I    I     I
Net current transfers                           288      441        589     1 080      -3
Current account balance                      -1,105      954     -3,953    -4,303      4
Financing items (net)                         1,051      184      8,060       940      -5
Changes in net reserves                          54   -1,138     -4,107     3,363      .,
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..       ..   11,834      8,918
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)                7.4     20.4       26.2      29.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          6,040   28,204     40,145    45,433
IBRD                                         316    3,017       4,666     4,179                          A: 4,179
IDA                                           27        92        193       195     |:195
Total debt service                              571    2,961      5,357     4,541         0G:11,794                   c: 855
IBRD                                          35       406        766       709                          _:2.947
IDA                                            0         1          3         3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               61       401        247       188     |                  .,       _              |
Official creditors                           212       196         -6       107
Private creditors                            883       295      2,138     2,869
Foreign direct investment                    132       127      1,517     1,253
Portfolio equity                                0        0      1,333        73
World Bank program                                                                             F: 14,299
Commitments                                  226       151        528        60
Disbursements                                102       197        457       305      A-1IRO                        E - Bilateral
Principal repayments                           14      170        426       409         -A I   DD 0-Other multilateral   F - Private
Net flows                                     88        27         31      -104      c - IMF                       G - Short-term
Interest payments                             20       238        343       303
Net transfers                                 68      -210       -312      -408
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                            2112J99
- 58 -



116'       120                                    122                           ~~~~~~~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T. oololo I 0  0       110
aaron                            R4~~~~ B1-ACAN~PO
PHILIPPINES                                                                                                                            .
PAN-PHILIPPINE HIGHWAY                                                                                        .6~w.
20'                ~~~OTHER MAIN ROADS20                                                                                           0s2\    '-
FERRIRS                                                                                                          I"g                                                    ZASno L
+   INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS                                                                                                                                       4'.PRoVINCE
MAJOR PORTS                                                                                                       ___                                                        50
RIVERS                                                            Raboya
*  PROVINCE CAPITALSIsnd                                                                                                        '
8) REGION CAPITALS                                            6p-'C
PROVINCE BOUNDARIRS                                                                                                             4    "0/-o6'
REGION ROUNDARIRS                                                    Atp-,jJ
Manila                                      o
'K                          ~~~~Bay
ltnaa.Hano~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L gn
2  UaS.                                                             -      0      -        - 1-                                                                                Bay
4 0t9O                        ~ole//METROPOLITAN
CAR  Cerdillore Admtiristrtive Region-~y                                       T,ITodno       : Cnnngo.                                                                                 M NL
9                         Ca.,.                               non~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ona ~~~~ MUNICIPAtO
00. 506n22560'O2oa                        Trgnyei                                   '               16'                                   * ~****D**          -    PROW6a BOUNDARIES
IS    geponn l22                                                                                                             CAVIT E22PROVINCE
024  N- V                                                         Ta na
RI .   I'm,o                                               OWe                                                                      KIOMTESPROV 
IS     B-nra Ian            ix   Wester Maodoeno                    ,do      ,                                                       IOETRoa   al
07  Soolo'e.oo        56  Z-6, Oond.N22                                                                                                                                 156
ta                            S
20. Ybc                    x    NorMowr Mindnoe              nan                         CYg O~ ,
NCR   National Capito Region       "   Coono
60. Mjao od.-oI
IV   Seotlne  Togolo              -0M.aOoa                           IeeMtro             7, )a4Cn
22  A-                     I    -aon&-M
014'   24.Ck   .6   D-aoN-.tl
25. Lag                       63  DnaaolaS.u                                   -'14
27  OW   "&dno6               65  Onanno 
29. Pdac-on                    67. 0oinXKdan             Eslno
31. RSealonrl  kee
v~ um.W&                        64. NoC" N~
33  niAl                  XIII  Cero=
34  CannoaN_ lo               70  MgodI O                                    Mindayo                       e
37~ lla6at                    or  Sion44St                       0'
36. Sagt                ARM141Aetenonmouo ReIo  of               %,           6'                    i 
VI   %estern V iseyno                 MoinMo2n                                                    a y             jn            .0-Y,n
39. Akin                       74  taaaolo S.t,oung                                   ~3 -
44  Nova. Ooood2I                                    Cubn                            slnVilloo
VII  Central Vioayno
60. Bal                                        Li-ap-ha  -~~arnn
47. 50q2ia                                                                                                                                            C.a'Ta 0   o
ViII  Eoteen Vison                                                              a4,.'Sen
49  BIitaJ
56,  IaaE.o-0cla 'pI
12                                                                                                               b~~~~~~~~an  anf~I             0      Ia        ioa                    6
53  W.-* ~     ~       o                                                                           nounle
Crnl, \aL      P.On.XM.                                                                                                                                    ta.peuldn
-Y    ~          0    0     go n
S  u  I u                                                     m        nIX  J+  iro d 10  aOCot.M Mn6 bnj n
Coo  o     2C !o4ono
MALAYSC6                                C,-  {n                                                                                                   Mno."K ilp 
j  I,          I             IC'o~~~~~~~~N~ ,                            JPI  aiF,'                                                                                                              6
76~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
2                ~~~~~~~~PHElIPPINES:                                                76                                         )            '
In'           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MALAYSIA                                                                                                                      0                10                260               300 KIL.OMETERS
trlnurno"<"'                         0'~~~~~~~~~~~~B.P 
TSe nap n'  rd-oes by lbe Map.,  o D in5 afIRe1T  WarM Onb.
a                          I                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th.eb-udnries,uolnr,donoo-ooo-no-dany- leontnnoab-
0  ~      ~                    NESIA                   'anli, nap da not imply, on  e port of The World  nb Grop, any
0AUSTRALLA          1120                                      22                                     2-1,'A
00'  on'  on   In  no'   ISO'                                      152'                                   024'                                   026'                6' 25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



