Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4446 PH
Loan Agreement
(Local Government Finance and Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 8, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4446-PH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  2
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms wherever used in this 
Agreement have the following meanings:
(a)
“Affected Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of Part 
A of the Project, had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected, and “Affected Persons” means collectively all 
persons who qualify as  an Affected Person. 
(b)
“Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the Central Bank of the Republic of 
the Philippines, and any successor thereto. 
(c)
“DILG” means the Borrower’s Department of Interior and Local Government, 
and any successor thereto. 
(d)
“DOF” means the Department of Finance, an agency of the Borrower with 
jurisdiction over MDF and MDFO, and any successor thereto. 
(e)
“LGA” means the Local Government Academy established in 1987 under 
Executive Order Number 262 of the Borrower. 
(f)
“LGUs” means local government units, political subdivisions of the 
Borrower at the provincial, city or municipal level; and “LGU” means any such Local 
Government Unit. 
(g)
“LGU Resource Mobilization and Performance Monitoring Plan” means the 
plan, which may be revised from time to time with the approval of the Bank, to be 
implemented by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 8 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
(h)
"MDF" means the Municipal Development Fund established under Presidential 
Decree No. 1914 dated March 29, 1984, administered by DOF through the Bureau of Local 
Government Finance, to make financial resources available to local governments for 
duly approved specific projects or activities, and any successor thereto. 
(i)
"MDFO" and “Municipal Development Fund Office” means the MDF as 
reorganized, functionally and structurally, under President’s Executive Order Number 
41 dated November 20, 1998, to be administered by DOF.  
(j)
“MDFO-PGB” means the MDFO Policy Governing Board established pursuant to 
Section 4 of President’s Executive Order Number 41 dated November 20, 1998, and 
maintained pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, and any successor 
thereto.
(k)
“MDF Reorganization Action Plan” means the plan, which may be revised 
from time to time with the approval of the Bank, to be implemented by the Borrower 
pursuant to paragraph 9 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
(l)
“Operations Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, adopted 
by MDFO and MDFO-PGB pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, as 
such Manual may be revised from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
(m)
“Participating LGUs” means LGUs responsible for carrying out Subprojects 
in accordance with the procedures of the Operations Manual and the terms and 
conditions of their respective Subproject Agreements; and “Participating LGU” means 
any such entity. 
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(o)
“Subproject Appraisal Report” means the subproject appraisal report 
prepared by MDFO, in accordance with the guidelines set forth in Operations Manual, 
which includes a description of the subproject proposed, its cost and financing and 
implementation arrangements and the LGU’s historical and projected income and 
expenditure.
Page  3
(p)
“Subprojects” means specific development Subprojects approved for 
financing under Part A of the Project in accordance with procedures and criteria 
established in the Operations Manual and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the 
relevant Subproject Agreements; and “Subproject” means any such Subproject. 
(q)
“Subproject Agreements” means the agreements referred to in paragraph 6 
to Schedule 6 of this Agreement, to be entered into between DOF and Participating LGUs 
in respect of Subprojects to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan; and 
“Subproject Agreement” means any such Agreement.  
(r)
“Subproject Financing” means loans and/or grants made, in part, from the 
proceeds of the Loan to Participating LGUs to finance their respective Subprojects in 
accordance with procedures and criteria established in the Operations Manual, and 
pursuant to the terms and conditions of the relevant Subproject Agreements and, where 
the context so requires, any such loan and/or grant. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts B, C and D of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) for amounts paid (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by a 
LGU under Subproject Financing to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for a Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is 
requested. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
special deposit account in dollars in a commercial bank specifically authorized for 
this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollar for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three 
quarters of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for 
such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through DOF, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, economic, environmental, financial and management 
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; and shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
continued achievement of the purposes of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Page  5
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
financial statements, records and accounts 
and a report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
The Borrower shall have appointed an executive director and a Project 
manager, procurement specialist, accountant and environmental specialist to work in 
MDFO, with qualifications and experience as set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement; 
(b)
MDFO and MDFO-PGB shall have adopted and put into effect the Operations 
Page  6
Manual in accordance with paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
(c)
A memorandum of agreement shall have been entered into between DOF and 
DILG, setting forth the role of LGA in assisting DOF in the implementation of Part B 
of the Project and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Roxas Blvd.
Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Cable address: 
Telex:
SECFIN
40268 CB-CONF
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in  
Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Edgardo B. Espiritu 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bernard Funck 
Authorized Representative
Page  7
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Subproject Financing
   77,100,000
90% of 
amounts 
under Part A of the
disbursed under 
Subproject Financing 
(2)
Goods 
    5,340,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% 
of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory costs) and 
80% of local 
expenditures 
for other items 
procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services  
   12,440,000
100%
and training
(4)
Incremental Operating
    4,120,000
80%
costs
(5)
Fee
    1,000,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement
TOTAL
  100,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and  
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the operating costs of MDFO 
related to the implementation of the Project, including costs for office supplies and 
project staff travel and operating costs of equipment and facilities, but excluding 
salaries.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a)
Subproject Financing; 
(b)
civil works and goods under contracts costing less than $300,000 
equivalent each; 
(c)
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals costing 
Page  8
less than $100,000 equivalent or $50,000 equivalent, respectively; 
(d)
Incremental Operating Costs; and 
(e)
training, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (1) expanding and 
upgrading basic infrastructure, services and facilities under the jurisdiction of 
Participating LGUs; (2) strengthening LGUs’ capacity in municipal governance, 
investment planning, revenue generation, and project development and implementation; 
and (3) enhancing the Borrower’s capacity to support and finance local government 
development and investment.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Part A:
LGU Subprojects
1.
Carrying out of specific LGU investment projects through the provision of loans 
and/or grants for: 
(a)
expansion, rehabilitation and improvement of: 
(i)
basic infrastructure, such as public markets, slaughterhouses, bus 
and jeepney 
terminals, local roads and drainage; 
(ii)
social service facilities, such as health centers and school 
buildings; and 
(iii)
environmental facilities and management, such as sanitation 
systems, river and 
seashore protection, solid waste management 
facilities, traffic management and 
engineering, and public memorial 
parks, and 
(b)
preparation of feasibility studies for said LGU investment projects and 
LGU urban development plans.
Part B:
LGU Training and Capacity Building
1.
Strengthening of LGUs’ training and management capacities, through the provision 
of equipment, consultants’ services and training, for:
(a)
subproject development and implementation;  and
(b)
municipal planning, finances and management. 
2.
Strengthening of the Borrower’s training and management capacities, through the 
provision of equipment, consultants’ services and training, for:
(a)
training modules and delivery mechanisms; and 
(b)
development and implementation of new training programs, including 
distance learning, LGU twinning arrangements, MDFO conferences and workshops, and 
rapid-response technical assistance.
Part C: 
LGU Resource Mobilization and Performance Monitoring
1.
Enhancement of LGUs’ resource mobilization and performance monitoring capacities 
by: 
(a)
expanding DOF’s Real Property Tax Administration Program to provide 
technical assistance to local governments for improvement of property tax billing and 
Page  9
collection, to achieve nation-wide coverage; 
(b)
developing and implementing new initiatives to assist LGUs improve their 
creditworthiness and revenue generation; and 
(c)
developing and implementing systems to improve the monitoring of LGU 
fiscal performance and local financial reporting and disclosure, through provision of 
consultants’ services, training, and equipment.
Part D: 
MDF Reorganization and Strengthening 
1.
Enhancement of the Borrower’s capacity to support and finance local government 
development and investment through the reorganization and strengthening of  MDF to 
implement, on a phased basis, new institutional structures, streamlined procedures and 
approvals and decentralized operations by providing equipment and technology, 
consultants’ services and training. 
*********
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
November 15, 2004
2,160,000 
May 15, 2005
2,225,000 
November 15, 2005
2,285,000 
May 15, 2006
2,350,000 
November 15, 2006
2,415,000 
May 15, 2007
2,485,000 
November 15, 2007
2,555,000 
May 15, 2008
2,630,000 
November 15, 2008
2,700,000 
May 15, 2009
2,780,000 
November 15, 2009
2,855,000 
May 15, 2010
2,940,000 
November 15, 2010
3,020,000 
May 15, 2011
3,105,000 
November 15, 2011
3,195,000 
May 15, 2012
3,285,000 
November 15, 2012
3,375,000 
May 15, 2013
3,470,000 
November 15, 2013
3,570,000 
May 15, 2014
3,670,000 
November 15, 2014
3,775,000 
May 15, 2015
3,880,000 
November 15, 2015
3,990,000 
May 15, 2016
4,105,000 
November 15, 2016
4,220,000 
May 15, 2017
4,340,000 
November 15, 2017
4,460,000 
May 15, 2018
4,585,000 
November 15, 2018
4,715,000 
May 15, 2019
4,860,000
_____________________________ 
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Page  10
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(b)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 of this Part C, works shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less.  
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
3.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $9,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Page  11
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply 
with respect to the following contracts: 
(i)
in each calendar year, the first five contracts each for works and 
goods, 
regardless of the cost thereof, for which invitations 
to bid are issued in 
that calendar year;  
(ii)
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more; 
and  
(iii)
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
of the contracts referred to in subparagraph (i) thereof are to be procured under 
small works or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of Part 
C.2 or Part C.3 of this Section I, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any contractor under such procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under such 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of 
the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part B and D of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Page  12
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Services under Parts B, C and D of the Project, which are estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for Parts B and D of the Project that meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
Page  13
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $50,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Page  14
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Implementation Program
For the purposes of Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the following: Part A of the Project
1.
The Borrower shall maintain within DOF, MDFO, which shall be: 
(a)
headed by an executive director, with appropriate qualifications and 
experience, to be responsible exclusively for the management and supervision of MDFO 
operations and MDFO project offices to be established under Part D of the Project; and
(b)
staffed, inter alia, with a Project manager, procurement specialist, 
accountant and environmental specialist, all with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank, to: (i) promote, appraise, manage and supervise subprojects 
under Part A of the Project; and (ii) make recommendations on proposed Subproject 
feasibility and eligibility to MDFO-PGB.  
2.
The Borrower shall maintain MDFO-PGB, which shall be responsible for reviewing 
and approving proposed subprojects for Subproject Financing.
3.
The Borrower: 
(a)
shall cause MDFO and MDFO-PGB to adopt, and maintain in effect, a manual 
of operations for Part A of the Project acceptable to the Bank, which manual shall 
include: (i) operational procedures for determining the eligibility of eligible 
Participating LGUs and Subprojects and the appraisal and financing criteria therefor; 
(ii) procedures for procurement, disbursement, supervision and impact evaluation in 
respect of eligible Subprojects; (iii) policy and procedures to provide compensation 
and rehabilitation for persons whose property or livelihood is adversely affected by 
the implementation of any Subproject; (iv) policy and procedures to ensure the 
participation of indigenous peoples in the design and implementation of Subprojects; 
(v) the financing arrangements (loan, grant and equity mix, interest rate and loan 
maturity) applicable to each type of Subprojects; and (vi) procedures for the 
Page  15
monitoring and reporting of Subproject activities;
(b)
shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with such manual as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and the Borrower shall ensure that: 
(i) MDFO shall promote, appraise, review and supervise Subprojects;  and (ii)  
MDFO-PGB shall review and approve Subprojects, all in accordance with the criteria, 
conditions and procedures set out in the Operations Manual; and  
(c)
shall not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part of the Operations 
Manual, without the prior approval of the Bank.
4.
The Borrower shall cause MDFO to furnish to the Bank for comments, the 
Subproject Appraisal Report for: (a) the first twenty (20) subprojects proposed under 
Part A of the Project; and (b) each proposed subproject costing three million dollars 
($3,000,000) equivalent or more,  prior to submitting such Subproject Appraisal Report 
to MDFO-PGB for review and approval.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that the proposal for each subproject under Part A of 
the Project is approved by MDFO-PGB only if: 
(a)
the proposed Subproject satisfies the technical, economic and financial 
eligibility criteria for Subproject Financing set forth in the Operations Manual; 
(b)
(i) an analysis of the environmental effects of such Subproject has been 
prepared; and (ii) if applicable, an environmental impact assessment, satisfactory to 
the Bank, has been undertaken and mitigation measures designed, on the basis of 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the principles set 
forth in the Operations Manual; 
(c)
a resettlement action plan has been prepared in accordance with 
principles acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Operations Manual and such plan 
has been approved by the Bank, if the proposed Subproject involves resettlement of 
Affected Persons; and 
(d)
the Bank has approved a plan that incorporates mechanisms for the 
participation of indigenous peoples in the design and implementation of such 
Subproject, if the proposed Subproject involves communities with indigenous 
population, in accordance with the principles acceptable to the Bank and set forth in 
the Operations Manual.
6.
For purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall, through 
DOF, enter into a Subproject Agreement with the relevant Participating LGU in regard 
to each Subproject approved for financing under the Project, in accordance with 
procedures and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and as set out in the 
Operations Manual, which conditions shall include the following: 
(a)
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the amount of the Subproject 
Financing shall not exceed ninety percent (90%) of the estimated aggregate costs of an 
eligible Subproject (excluding the cost of land).  The Participating LGU of such 
Subproject shall be required to contribute at least ten percent (10%) of the total 
Subproject costs, in material, cash or services in the planning and supervision of the 
Subproject. 
(b)
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, for the loan portion of the 
Subproject Financing, repayment shall be made over a period not exceeding fifteen (15) 
years, including a maximum of three (3) years of grace; and interest payable on such 
loan portion shall be market-based and determined by the Borrower as prescribed in the 
Operations Manual. 
(c)
The Participating LGU undertakes, inter alia, to:  
(i)
carry out its respective Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency in 
accordance with sound managerial, financial, 
technical, environmental and 
relevant sector practices 
acceptable to the Bank, and provide promptly as 
needed the 
resources required for the purposes, and maintain adequate records 
and accounts;
Page  16
(ii)
carry out, where applicable: (A) mitigation measures designed on 
the basis of 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank; and (B) an 
action plan, 
approved by the Bank, for the participation of 
indigenous peoples in the 
design and implementation of the 
Subproject;
 (iii) (A) take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or 
assets of 
Affected Persons and avoid displacement of Affected Persons; 
and (B) where 
acquisition of land or assets or the 
displacement of Affected Person is 
unavoidable under a 
proposed Subproject, the Participating LGU shall before 
carrying out 
the works which would result in such acquisition or displacement, 
make 
available to such Affected Persons, compensation and rehabilitation in 
accordance with a resettlement action plan approved by the Bank;  
(iv)
utilize the proceeds of the Subproject Financing exclusively in 
the carrying 
out of its respective Subproject; 
(v)
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the goods, facilities 
and sites, 
if any, included in its respective Subproject; copies of any 
studies or 
reports prepared for the purposes of said Subproject; 
and any other relevant 
records and documents;  
(vi)
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the 
Borrower or 
the Bank may reasonably request relating to the foregoing; 
and
(vii)
ensure that goods, works and consultants’ services financed out of 
the 
Subproject Financing shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
7.
The Borrower shall undertake, inter alia: 
(a)
to exercise its rights in relation to each Subproject Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project; 
(b)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not to assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive any of its agreements providing for a Subproject Agreement, or any provision 
therefor, without the prior approval of the Bank; and  
(c)
to suspend the rights of the Participating LGU of a Subproject Financing 
upon failure by such Participating LGU to perform any of its obligations under its 
Subproject Agreement. Part C and D of the Project 
8.
The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with the LGU 
Resource Mobilization and Performance Monitoring Plan, which sets out time-bound 
actions to be taken to improve LGUs’ resource mobilization and performance monitoring 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, including the development of a computer-assisted 
local business tax model, actions to increase tax collection, completion of the 
installation of the Real Property Tax Administration system, revision of the fiscal 
report format, computerization of the financial information system and dissemination 
of fiscal monitoring reports.
9.
The Borrower shall carry out Part D of the Project in accordance with the MDF 
Reorganization Action Plan, which sets out time-bound actions to be taken to 
reorganize and strengthen MDF in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, including the 
creation of MDFO; an assessment, in consultation with the Bank, of modalities for MDFO 
to better support and finance local government development and investment; 
determination, in consultation with the Bank, of the modality to be adopted; and 
implementation of actions necessary to adopt such modality. Project Monitoring and 
Reporting
10.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
Page  17
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators acceptable to 
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
(i)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank, on February 15 and August 15 of each year, 
commencing in February 15, 
2000, semi-annual reports, integrating 
the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 10, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of each such report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; 
and 
(ii)
review with the Bank each report referred to in sub-paragraph 
(b)(i) of this 
paragraph 10, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period 
following the date of such report, based on the 
conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the view of the Bank on 
the matter;
(c)
(i)
by May 31, 2002, prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank and 
furnish to the Bank, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this 
paragraph 10, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period 
preceding the date of such report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
(ii)
review with the Bank by June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Bank shall 
request, the report referred in sub-paragraph (c) (i) of 
this paragraph 10, 
and thereafter take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period 
following the date of such 
report, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of 
the said report and the views of the Bank on the matter.
