Report No. PIC3741
Project Name                 Russian Federation-St. Petersburg Center (@)
City Engineering
Region                       Europe and Central Asia
Sector                       Urban Development
Project ID                   RUPA42720
Borrower                     Russian Federation
Implementing Agency          City of St. Petersburg
Mr. Vladimir M. Zheliostov, Director
Department of Construction
76 Moika emb., St. Petersburg
Russian Federation
Tel. No. 7-812-319 9030
Fax No. 7-812-310 0002
Date This PID Prepared       March 26, 1996
Date Initial PID Prepared    August 16, 1995
Projected Appraisal Date     April 23, 1996
Projected Board Date         April 12, 1997
I.   Country and Sector Background
Peter the Great founded the City of St. Petersburg in 1703 to be
the capital of the Russian Empire, its window on the West, and its
administrative, cultural and intellectual center. Largely ignored
during the Soviet era, St. Petersburg escaped socialist-style physical
redevelopment and its 54 kilometer historic center remains a masterpiece
of architecture and its finest treasure. Designated by UNESCO as a
World Heritage site, the city has world class architecture, museums,
libraries, theaters and orchestras. Its cultural riches include 3000
registered historical and architectural monuments, and some 900 cultural
institutions (museums, libraries, theaters), including the world famous
Mariinskiy (former Kirov) theater and the State Hermitage Museum. The
historical center possesses one of the largest and most beautiful urban
architectural ensembles in the world, with its canals, churches,
estates, palaces, parks, public buildings and monuments. However, St.
Petersburg is more than a historic monument; it is a living and vibrant
city.   Some 800,000 people reside in the center, and one million people
work there.
The Issues
Threatened Cultural Heritage. Unfortunately, St. Petersburg's world
class cultural heritage is under stress. The infrastructure is
dilapidated due to neglect and difficult climatic and geological
conditions. Architectural and historical monuments of world
significance are deteriorating rapidly. One hundred four of the 3000
registered monuments are in critical condition, and may be lost if
action is not taken to stem their deterioration. Another 3000 buildings



need urgent rehabilitation or renovation. One half of the housing needs
reconstruction, about 10% on an emergency basis.
Economic and Budgetary Collapse. Like other cities in Russia, St.
Petersburg's economy has suffered in the economic transition.     Large
industries have collapsed, leading to reductions in employment and in
the City's revenue base.   Manufacturing output declined more than 50%
since 1990, capital investment by 60%, and cargo shipments by nearly
70%.   Collapsing output has been accompanied by shrinking federal
transfers, magnifying the effect on the City's budget. City officials
recognize that private investment must fill a large part of this gap.
However, under current legal and institutional structures, the private
sector is not willing to respond to a sufficient degree.
Social Hardship. Economic collapse has led to social stress and a sharp
decline in living standards for the majority of the population. In
1993-4 St. Petersburg had the country's lowest birth rate and one of the
highest death rates. Elderly people are a high percentage of the
population (9 overall and 35% in the Center). Seventy percent of center
city residents live in communal apartments in which several families
share a kitchen and bath. The crowded and deteriorated condition of
these apartments poses a serious hardship for its occupants. Despite
the economic decline, real average incomes have increased, though the
gap between the rich and the poor also increased. In 1994 the ratio of
average incomes of the wealthiest 10% to the poorest 10% reached 16.2
(compared to 15.1 in Russia as a whole.)
The Potential
In General. The City's leadership is meeting these daunting economic
challenges by promoting economic transformation, swift privatization,
the liberalization of the economy, and the development of market
infrastructure and foreign investment. They point out that the city is
becoming integrated with Europe, it has a comparatively stable social
situation, with an absence of ethnic conflicts, and it possesses a
highly educated population. Their vision of St. Petersburg is that it
will be s a multi-functional European city that will act as a major
scientific, educational and cultural center. There is evidence that the
economy stabilized in 1995 and has started to grow. Some 60,000 small
businesses (with 600,000 employees) have been established, and financial
and other service industries are developing.
The Center City. City officials are searching for sources of new
economic activity. They view the historic center as the chief resource
that will provide employment and income to its citizens and tax revenues
for the city government. Its beauty, cultural attractions and proximity
to Europe provide an exceptional opportunity for economic growth in
tourism and commerce. The number of international visitors already
increased by 300 % since 1991, despite poor tourism infrastructure.
Rehabilitating the historic center also will create jobs in the
construction and real estate industry.
II. Objectives
-2-



Stated Goals of Government The Government of St. Petersburg considers
the rehabilitation of its historic area to be its highest priority.     A
Federally targeted Program for Historic Center Development and
Preservation is now undergoing final review by the Federal Government.
The five stated goals of this Program are to:
Preserve the architectural, cultural and historic heritage as
functioning entities, not as museums.
Improve the living standards of the population
Increase private sector finance of reconstruction and
rehabilitation activities
Integrate St. Petersburg into the world economic system.
Increase technical expertise in center city rehabilitation
The program is ambitious and expensive (US$27 billion over 30
years), especially considering the present shortage of public finance.
Moreover, city officials readily admit that the city lacks the strategy
and implementation capacity to achieve these worthwhile program goals.
Time Frame. City authorities want to complete by 2003, in time for the
300th anniversary of the city's founding, some carefully selected
restoration work that will serve as the foundation for the city's future
redevelopment.
Stimulation of Private Investment. The cornerstone of the city's
restoration strategy is to stimulate private investment activity in the
historic center. Thus far, the St. Petersburg authorities have promoted
private investment to foreign and domestic investors in an informal
manner. Results are slow in coming. It is now generally agreed that a
comprehensive approach is required to stimulate private investment.
Such an approach will require: a) a new flexible strategic plan for
historic area development, b) an appropriate legal base, and c) a new
financial policy. In addition, d) private and public interests should
be balanced; e) public entities must develop the capacity to promote and
guide development; and the f) public and city stakeholders must be
brought into the decision-making process. Substantial progress in all
of these areas has been made, as discussed below.
Legislative Development. Private investors require considerable comfort
-- especially in Russia --that the property belongs to them and that
they will be able to realize its benefits. Although the City developed
private property rights, much more needs to be done. The Government of
St. Petersburg views the city as the leader among Russian cities in
privatizing rights to urban land and developing a private real estate
market. The city's achievements include: a) aggressive programs of
enterprise privatization and enterprise land privatization; b) a working
system of title registration; c) aost complete privatization of retail
spaces; d) a commitment to improving the quality of private property
rights to land and buildings; and e) an investment tender regulation on
disposal of buildings and land through competitive procedures (see 1/).
The city also has an ambitious program to further develop and refine the
- 3 -



legislative framework. The agenda includes intensive work on: a) a City
Development Code that will spell out procedural and legal aspects of
land use regulation; b) a Zoning ordinance; c) a system of real estate
taxes based on market values of property; and d) an "investment code"
which will spell out the rights and obligations of the city and private
investors in property transactions. Several important pieces of
legislation have been drafted and are undergoing review by city
officials, the city legislature, and experts from the private sector.
Formation of Area Development Agencies. The St. Petersburg authorities
have been impressed by the area development model for redevelopment and
rehabilitation that is followed by the United Kingdom and by Barcelona,
Spain. In order to increase local participation in city development,
the city has sponsored the formation of some 24 public/private Area
Development Agencies, each with responsibility for a several block area
of the historic center. Some of these agencies have already started to
develop plans for their zones. The area development concept has
potential; however, the investment rights and responsibilities of these
agencies would need to be clarified before any real initiatives could be
expected
Improving Public Finance and Investment Planning. The city has made
major strides in improving its financial management. For example, it
has formed an investment tender committee to award contracts on a
competitive basis, established an organization to bring sources of
financing together, and strengthened the Construction Department. It is
developing a more comprehensive and rational capital budgeting process;
it has published regular financial reports and comprehensive budgets;
and it has significantly increased user charges for city infrastructural
and other services (the latest increase in January 1996). The European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) is supporting technical
assistance to the city on financial policies and general investment
strategies in order to improve its creditworthiness. This technical
assistance has helped the city better understand its financial needs and
the options that it can exercise to meet these needs. Unfortunately,
despite organizational improvements, the city faces a difficult
financial situation. The budget in 1995 had a deficit of R 1 trillion
(US$ 222 million ), 13% of revenues.   The City financed this deficit by
short term borrowing (R 550 billion) and year end expenditure
adjustments. The deficit in the 1996 draft budget is even greater, both
in absolute numbers and in relation to revenues. The city's weak
financial position will require that investment projects include
provisions for self financing. It will also require the city to
identify those projects that will contribute the most to improving the
city's financial base.
Initiation of Strategic Plan. The city has also started preparing a
strategic investment plan, based on an approach that features: a)
flexibility to modify the plan based on continuous feedback; and b)
public involvement in formulating the plan. The plan is intended to
activate public and private initiative and support. The work completed
thus far is based on overall economic considerations, but lacks a
spatial dimension and any specific infrastructural and sectoral
investment aspects.
-4-



Fundraising. The St. Petersburg authorities have also raised public
money for restoration, and they have convinced the federal government
that the restoration of St. Petersburg's historic area is of national
importance. In 1995, a year of exceptional austerity in public
investment, St. Petersburg was able to obtain approval of federal
funding of R100 billion (US$22 million) for a rehabilitation program
that focuses mainly on specific historic buildings (see 2/).
Stakeholder Participation. The city has explicitly recognized the need
to collaborate with stakeholders in the planning of center city
rehabilitation and in the implementation of the improvements themselves.
The business and professional community is assisting in drafting
legislation. In addition, the city and the Bank jointly sponsored a
stakeholder's seminar in December 95. The seminar was attended by a
wide range of representatives of the business, investment and
professional communities, by departments of the City, and by donors.
Participants split into thematic groups guided by professional
facilitators with training in conflict management. Although initially
far apart in their views, participants found common ground and coalesced
on a number of recommendations for policy changes and investment
priorities.
Objectives of the Bank-supported Center City Engineering Project. The
goal of this Engineering Loan is to support preparation of a St.
Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Program. Specific objectives for
the Engineering Project are to: a) further develop and agree with the
City and Federal authorities on a strategic plan for Center City
rehabilitation; b) continue regulatory reform to assure competitive real
estate markets and a competitive business environment in the center
city; c) agree on a program design, a list and schedule of priority
public investments, and a five year flexible program of public works
that is economically, financially, socially and environmentally
feasible; d) initiate a program of public participation and information
on urban planning and investment; e) carry out design and engineering of
public works for the first two years of the project that could be
financed by the private sector and donors, including the Bank; and f)
build the institutional base for supervision and monitoring of works.
III.    Description
Project Concept
The project will support a process of reform, restructuring, and
investment in St. Petersburg . The process will include strategic
planning, designing, engineering, promoting, regulating, building
capacity, piloting, and learning from experience. The lessons learned
will modify the plan and initiate a larger effort in the future.
Project Components
The Engineering Project would provide a comprehensive package of
actions, changes in the incentive framework, capacity building and pilot
projects to permit implementation of the investment program. Specific
components include:
-5-



Planning and Management Consultancy to assist the city in
devising detailed strategic, action-oriented plans for
rehabilitation and revitalization of the center city. The
consultants would also assist the city in implementing the
project in all of its aspects, including: a) oversight and
coordination of the institution building activities and of
stakeholder involvement; and b) supervision of the pilot
projects and of design and engineering for the investment
program.
Design and Engineering for the first two years of the
investment program for center city rehabilitation.
Institutional Strengthening of units of the Government of St.
Petersburg through advice, equipment and training.
Regulatory Reform to improve the framework of incentives for
investment in real property.
Pilot Investment Schemes to experiment with and demonstrate new
mechanisms for providing traditional services or new or
improved services.    Specific plans include pilot schemes that
will provide some physical improvements (e.g. street lighting,
landscaping, contracting of solid waste collection, signage)
for the whole of Nevsky Prospekt (the main commercial street in
St. Petersburg) and more concentrated improvements in a part of
Nevsky Prospekt that demonstrates high potential for commercial
development. These improvements would include infrastructural,
streetscape, and social assistance. The improvements would be
combined with the market based sale of buildings and vacant
land, creation of new privately owned or leased commercial
space and new ways of charging commercial users and residents
for services. In addition, pilot schemes would try to use the
resources already available through the ongoing Housing and Gas
Distribution Projects to provide incentives for rehabilitation
of existing apartments and increase energy efficiency.
IV. Project Costs, Financing and Lending Arrangements
The estimated cost of the proposed Project of US$40 million would
be financed as follows:
Preliminary Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Component                Cost                       Source of Finance
Foreign   Local      Total       Bank    Donors     Local
Gov't
Planning and    6.3        0.7       7.0        7.0
Management
Consultancy
-6-



Design &         3.0       7.0      10.0        8.0                 2.0
Engineering
Institution     5.0        2.0       7.0        0.5       5.0       1.5
Building &
Regulatory
Reform
Pilot Schemes   4.0        8.0      12.0        8.4       2.0       0.6
Unallocated      2.0       2.0       4.0         1.1      1.0       2.9
TOTAL          20.3       19.7      40.0       25.0       8.0       7.0
The Bank loan would be passed on by the Federal Government to the
Government of St. Petersburg under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.    It is
proposed that these arrangements include a long-term US$ denominated
loan to the city; however the specific conditions would need to be
negotiated between the Federal Government and St. Petersburg.
The Bank team has contacted donors and cultural NGOs in order to
mobilize support for and ensure coordination of the Center City
Rehabilitation Program and to assure that the international and bi-
lateral community are operating in concert with one another.
V.   Preparation and Implementation
City and Federal Structures
Preparation and implementation of a center city rehabilitation
strategy and investment projects will require the agreement and efforts
of many departments of the city government and oversight from the
highest levels. In order to assure this, the city has set up three
inter-related structures. First, a committee headed by the mayor and
composed of six deputy mayors and representatives of the federal
government is providing overall policy guidance. Second, a working
group drawn from all the relevant city departments and headed by the
Director of Construction Department is reviewing detailed plans and
directing the technical work on the project. Third, the city has set up
a Center for Operation of Bank Projects. The Center is a public
organization with semi-independent status. The Center would be
responsible for implementing the Bank financed Housing Project and
handling the technical work of the Center City Rehabilitation Project.
Project Review Unit
The strategic plan, the Center City Rehabilitation Program and the
Project are complex efforts that require modern sophisticated
approaches. In order to assure appropriate technical review and
support, the Finnish Government has agreed to provide grant finance for
a full time Project Review Unit (PRU) to provide advisory services to
the Government of St. Petersburg. A Bank-executed targeted trust fund
for this purpose is being negotiated. In the meantime, the Finnish
-7 -



Government has demonstrated its commitment to the project by financing
a consultant to head up the unit.
VI. Sustainability
The objective of the Engineering Loan is to create a plan for
sustainable renovation of the historic area. The Engineering Loan will
pay close attention to building institutions that are capable of
planning, implementing, regulating and promoting historic area
renovations for the long run. This will involve creation of systems of
financing urban services in the central core, as well as consideration
of operation and maintenance issues. The City itself already is working
on these issues and has requested Bank assistance; this is good evidence
that they are determined to deal effectively with the problems.
VII.     Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
Russia Housing Project
This Project is a precursor to the St. Petersburg project. The
Russia Housing Project was negotiated in December 1994, approved in
March 1995, signed in April 1995 and made effective in July 1995.
Although the Housing Project is very ambitious in its objectives (to
create a private housing market) and complex with regard to the number
of components and its implementation arrangements (5 cities, two banking
lines of credit, and major consultancies), implementation progress has
been encouraging. The Project benefited from lessons learned in other
projects in Russia. These lessons included the importance of: a)
identifying a counterpart with sufficient authority to move the project
forward and to coordinate among interested parties; b) detailed
attention to procurement and other implementation issues; and c)
including local consultants and institutes in project preparation and
implementation. The Government is committed to the Project, and met the
effectiveness conditions on time. Strong implementation capacity has
been established. The project also pioneered the use of on-lending
arrangements to cities and to commercial banks and established title
registration systems, land disposal regulations, and local project units
in all five cities. Implementation is progressing on all the components
and on the local regulatory frameworks.
Historic Restoration Components
Major components of historic restoration have been included in Bank
supported Urban Development or Tourism Projects in Jordan, Egypt, China,
Pakistan, and Colombia. Most of these components have been successful
in carrying out works and in achieving or surpassing expected economic
and financial benefits. Most have also had strong commitment on the
part of the Government, a major ingredient in their success. The
components were less successful in tackling institutional issues,
especially with regard to operation and maintenance and effective
planning regulation. Lessons learned include: a) the importance of
expert advice on technical aspects of infrastructure construction and
historic preservation; b) the difficulty and necessity of adopting and
- 8 -



enforcing regulations that affect private owners; c) the desirability of
using local contractors who understand local physical conditions; d) the
need for minimizing future maintenance costs and efforts through
appropriate designs; and e) the difficulty in obtaining good
coordination between infrastructure and planning authorities.
Integrated Urban Development Projects
The Bank has financed many Urban Development Projects all over the
world. Most have been successful in achieving physical and economic
objectives. Rates of return either met or exceeded expectations. The
hiring of competent contractors and construction managers was key to
physical implementation success. However, only a third of the projects
met institutional objectives. The main lessons were: a) ownership by
the counterpart is essential; b) all stakeholders, including those in
the private sector, need to be engaged in project preparation from the
beginning; c) projects should build in feedback mechanisms to learn from
experience and flexibility to make changes to address problems.
VIII.    Poverty Category
The project is mainly a technical assistance effort that will lead
to an investment program. The investment program should include poverty
alleviation among its objectives. Some of the pilot schemes supported in
this first technical assistance project will improve living conditions
of the existing population of the historic center.
IX. Environmental Aspects
The Engineering Loan is rated "B" regarding environmental aspects.
An environmental analysis is underway. Possible environmental issues
include solid waste disposal, air emissions, traffic noise, and ground
disturbance in the course of limited civil works carried out in pilot
projects. Because the size and scope of these works are small, it
should not be difficult to formulate ways of mitigating adverse
environmental impacts. The city indicates that it plans to introduce
modern solid waste disposal system in a limited area of St. Petersburg
as an element of such a pilot project.
There is a need for a comprehensive City Center Environmental
Assessment and Strategy for purposes of developing and implementing a
strategic plan and future Bank-supported Investment Project. It is
proposed to complete such an assessment as part of the Planning and
Management Consultancy carried out under the Engineering Project.
X.   Program Objective Categories
The project will lead to an investment program of center city
rehabilitation. The investment program is expected to emphasize: a)
cultural heritage, a subset of environmentally sustainable development;
b) private sector rehabilitation of buildings; and c) improvements in
the living conditions of existing inhabitants, thus corresponding to
three of the five program objective categories, e.g., environmentally
- 9-



sustainable development (EN), private sector development (PV) and
poverty reduction (PA).
XI. Project Benefits
The preparation of a viable strategies would have major benefits
for St. Petersburg. The Engineering Project would provide a flexible
blueprint for conserving and restoring the city's major economic asset,
its historic core. The restoration would stimulate tourism and business
development, creating employment and raising incomes. The restoration
of the central city would also enhance St. Petersburg's cultural
development; and property value increases, improvements in
infrastructure and amenities and the upgrading of housing (including
possible construction of new housing outside the center city to enhance
mobility) would improve the living conditions of existing residents. The
federal government, though vitally interested in St. Petersburg, also
views the project as a demonstration for other cities in Russia on
center city rehabilitation, regulation, social assessment and promotion
of private investment. The Engineering Project is a necessary step in
restoring the city, and would pay particular attention to reducing
constraints that have caused market failure for private investment.
XII. Project Risks
The Central City Investment Project would be a complex undertaking,
requiring solution of difficult technical, institutional, financial and
social problems. It is precisely to reduce these risks that a prudent
step-by-step approach is recommended in which an Engineering Project is
implemented first in order to carry out studies, initiate regulatory
change, build capacity, test approaches and establish a participatory
framework. In addition, major policy shifts at either the central
government or the city level may reduce the desire of the Government to
promote private investment, to borrow for St. Petersburg, and/or to work
with the Bank.   Although the risk of major reversals in the move to
markets appears to be lessening gradually, the situation will remain
tenuous for some time to come.
1/ The regulations on title registration and investment tenders were
developed in part through
work done in response to the policy reform agenda of the Housing Project
(Loan 3850-R) made effective on July 27, 1995.
2/ Although the latest version of the Federally Targeted Program for
Historic Renovation has not been formally approved, St. Petersburg was
able to receive preliminary approval during 1995 and the transfer of
some funds. Given the Russian Federation's difficult fiscal position,
future transfers cannot be assured, even if they are budgeted.
Contact Point:                 Adrienne Nassau, Task Manager, EC3IV
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
- 10 -



Telephone No. (202) 473-76
Fax No. (202) 477-3285
Note:      This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 21, 1997
- 11 -



