Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25014
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-41440)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 31.0 MILLION
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR A
ST. PETERSBURG CENTER CITY REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 12, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 17, 2002)
Currency Unit = Ruble
1 Ruble = US$ 0.03
US$ 1.00 = 32.50 Rubles
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CF            -      Cultural Fund
ERR           -      Economic Rate of Return
FISP          -      St. Petersburg Foundation for Investment Projects
FRR           -      Financial Rate of Return
GC            -      General Consultant
GOR           -      Government of Russia
IBRD          -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           -      Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA           -      International Development Association
IS            -      International Shopping
NCB           -      National Competitive Bidding
NFHR          -      National Foundation for Housing Reform
NGO           -      Non-governmental Organization
NPFV          -      Net Present Financial Value
PIU           -      Project Implementation Unit
QAG           -      Quality Assurance Group
RF            -      Russian Federation
SPbCCRP       -      St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project
TA            -      Technical Annex
TIAS          -      Territorial Infornation and Analytical System
USAID         -      United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Director:  Julian Schweitzer
Sector Director:  Hossien Razavi
Sector Manager:   Sumter Lee Travers
Task Team Leader:    Ashot Harutounian



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ST PETERSBURG CENTER CITY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               13
6. Sustainability                                                                   14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  16
9. Partner Comments                                                                 17
10. Additional Information                                                    -    23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               35
Annexi 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              37
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                        38






Project ID: P042720                                       Project Name: ST PETERSBURG REHAB
Team Leader: Ashot Harutounian                            TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: November 14, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: ST PETERSBURG REHAB                            L/C/TF Number: SCL-41440
Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                   Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Sub-national government administration (44%);
District heating and energy efficiency services
(14%); Housing finance and real estate markets
(14%); Roads & highways (14%); General industry
and trade sector (14%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   08/16/1995                             Effective: 06/30/1997          04/15/1998
Appraisal:  05/13/1996                                MTR: 10/16/2000            10/16/2000
Approval:  03/27/1997                              Closing: 12/31/2000          04/30/2002
Borrower/ImplementingAgency:   RUSSIAN FEDERATION/Russia/State Committee for Construction & Housing
(GOSSTROI); RUSSIAN FEDERATION/St. Petersburg City Administration
Other Partners:  USAID, Government of Finland
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Julian F. Schweitzer                       Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:       Sumter Lee Travers                        Jonathan Brown
Team Leader at ICR:  Ashot Harutounian                          Adrienne Naussau
ICR Primary Author:   Ashot Harutounian; Elliott
Hurwitz
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



Introduction
The background for the project was the following:
*   St. Petersburg is a magnificent cultural treasure and tourist attraction that provides an exceptional
opportunity for growth in tourism, commerce, construction, and other services.
*   However, the city's infrastructure was in poor condition, and had insufficient capacity for much new
development.
* Private funding needed for infrastructure rehabilitation was inadequate.
*   There were regulatory and other obstacles to attracting private funding.
*   There was insufficient City Government capacity to design and carry out a program of center city
rehabilitation.
The project was intended to support a process of institutional reform based on a Strategic Plan, foster
restructuring and private investment in St. Petersburg, and help the City Government prepare a larger
(US$300 million) follow-on World Bank program of center city rehabilitation.
The MOP stated, "the program of reforms would be monitored closely during project implementation with the
understanding that continued implementation would be a positive factor in considering future support to St.
Petersburg." It was envisioned that the lessons learned during this project would guide and inform a program that
could be supported by the Bank, other donors, and the private sector.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project (SPbCCRP) were to: (a) further
develop and agree with the City Government and the Government of the Russian Federation on a strategic
plan and an investment program for center city rehabilitation; (b) continue regulatory reform to assure
competitive real estate markets and a competitive business environment in the center city; (c) initiate a
program of public informnation and participation in the decision-making process for city development and
investment; (d) carry out some visible physical improvements that can be replicated on a larger scale in the
future; and (e) assist cultural organizations in the city to improve their ability to generate non-budget
revenue.
Assessment of the Objectives
The diagnosis of the development problem facing the city, as stated above, remains largely accurate. St.
Petersburg has substantial potential as a center for tourism and commerce, and addressing the obstacles to
the realization of that potential is important. The project objectives, as stated, are a logical approach to
addressing this problem. The emphasis of the project on regulatory reform and stimulating private
investment in the city's development is appropriate, and is consistent with the current Bank and country
strategy.' A sound Strategic Plan and Investment Strategy could provide guidance and parameters that
would facilitate investment; however, the explicit Bank promise of a large follow-on loan predicated on the
Investment Strategy and engagement of a General Consultant to prepare the design and associated work to
underlie such a loan focused the Strategy on activities of potential interest to intemational funders rather
than the City Government itself.
-2 -



Despite the logical coherence of project objectives with the development problem, the project design was in
part inconsistent with its objectives:
- For a project that placed considerable emphasis on regulatory reform as a means of facilitating private
investment in real estate development and rehabilitation of existing properties, little incentive was
provided within the project for the implementation of reforms. Instead, the project design presumed
that the City (including the Legislative Assembly) was sufficiently committed to reform and that with
technical assistance in legal drafting it would implement best practice legislation and regulation. This
presumption did not survive project implementation.
-  The broad array of pilot activities to "carry out visible physical improvements that can be replicated on
a larger scale," was intended to test the feasibility of various approaches to urban upgrading.
However, in defining the TORs for and procuring the General Consultant (GC) prior to Board, coupled
with the promise of a substantial follow-on loan, project design assumed a satisfactory outcome of the
pilots, rather than allowing time for them to be implemented and lessons learned.
-  Objective (d) (carry out physical improvements), as implemented in accordance with the project design,
was partly in conflict with objective (b) (assure competitive real estate markets and a competitive
business environment). The objective of completing innovative and commercially viable physical
improvements that could be replicated on a larger scale gave the City Government a direct role in
commercial development that arguably interfered with the project objective of a greater private
development role through regulatory reform.
2 The 2001 CAS Progress Report reaffirms an emphasis on "improving the environment for private sector
development" and strengthening the capacity of government at all levels.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project components were as follows:
Technical Cooperation (US$ 11.8 million)
Planning, Administration and Engineering (US$ 1 1.1 million)
* Support for the Project Implementation Unit, the St. Petersburg Foundation for Investment Projects
(FISP).
* Research and Analysis by the Leontieff Center for the preparation of the Investment Strategy by
the General Consultant.
* Work performed by the General Consultant (GC). Nearly all Technical Assistance was envisioned
to be provided by the GC, which was hired as a condition of project effectiveness and which had
very broad responsibilities at project inception (see section 3.5, below).
- 3-



Additional technical assistance was provided through a Bank-executed USD 3.4 million Grant from the
Finnish Government, which was intended to be used for the financing of investment designs.' In 1998,
about two years after Grant signature, the Bank determined that continued execution by the Bank
would not be consistent with the operational policies for trust fund administration under OP 14.40.
Institution Building and Regulatory Reform (US $ 0.7 million)
*  Institutional Strengthening aimed at helping various City Government Departments upgrade their
human resource skills, procedures, and equipment to do a more effective and efficient job in a
market economy.
* Regulatory Reform to support training, legal drafting and provision of services to help implement
an agenda initiated by the St. Petersburg Foundation for Development of the Real Estate Sector.
The Finnish grant made available US$3.4 million for preparation of both the SPbCCRP project and the Russia
Water and Sanitation Project, of which US$1.2 million was actually used for SPbCCRP.
Pilot Schemes (IS$ 16.0 million) to experiment with and demonstrate new mechanisms for providing
traditional or new services
Nevsky Prospect Upgrading:
*  Street Lightning, Streetscape (paving of sidewalks).
*  Smaller projects (at the time of project appraisal) included provision of boat landings on canals,
floating restaurants, and refurbishing a pedestrian underpass; Provision of Infrastructure to Vacant
Sites (Dumskaya Ulitsa) - connecting vacant sites in the city center of high commercial potential to
the city infrastructure networks.
Special Housing Fund: A fund to help developers/redevelopers of buildings in the center city to
purchase alternative apartments for existing tenants who would voluntarily agree to move out and thus
allow the rehabilitation of the buildings/areas in question.
Block 130 Public Improvements: A residential block in the central part of the city (adjacent to Nevsky
prospect) representative of many of the problems of the central area was selected to carry out
concentrated pilot schemes - commercial and residential development; specific works in Block 130
included the construction of a Pedestrian Mall, replacement and upgrading of the existing heating
system, removal of contaminated soil; and construction of new apartments for elderly residents (in the
center of the city); the pilot required relocation of 26 persons.
Kapella Courtyards: A pilot scheme to renovate public spaces in the courtyards by improving
infrastructure, renovation, paving, landscaping, installing upgraded lights, etc. The newly developed
commercial areas are intended to be auctioned for long-term lease by the private sector; the pilot
required relocation of 29 persons from the buildings under rehabilitation.
-4 -



Cultural Fund: a US$1.0 million Fund was to assist a number of federally owned cultural
organizations in St. Petersburg to improve their ability to generate non-budgetary revenue through
provision of grants for upgrading their facilities and improving their financial and administrative
management. Unlike the rest of the Project managed by the City, the Fund was operated from Moscow,
by the National Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR).
3.4 Revised Components:
By the Mid-Term Review (October 2000) it was decided that some project activities originally included
under the Pilot Schemes component should be dropped, and their funds reallocated to remaining project
activities. The following were dropped:
*  implementation of a series of 'smaller projects' such as landings for tourism boats and floating
restaurants on some canals;
*  provision of infrastructure to the Dumskaya site off the Nevsky Prospekt; and
*  construction of an apartment complex for elderly people in Block 130 (or elsewhere in the center
city).
Construction of landing facilities was abandoned because a survey reyealed insufficient demand for new
landing sites for tourism boats, as private sites had been established. The construction and operation of
floating restaurants was deemed infeasible for reasons of safety and environmental regulations as well as
aesthetic considerations.
The provision of infrastructure for the Dumskaya site was dropped, in part because delays in project start
up and initial implementation permitted the site in question to be sold in the meantime to a private
developer, and no other site of comparable nature was available near Nevsky.
Construction of a large apartment complex of elderly housing (200 units) was abandoned for three reasons:
(1) the demand for such housing in that area of the city had been overestimated; (2) the City Government
felt that a large concentration of elderly people in a single complex was likely to create social,
psychological, and public health issues; (3) after the August 1998 crisis, it appeared overly risky to use
loan resources to construct housing affordable to low-income households.
Special Housing Fund: This was also dropped, because: (1) by the time the Housing Fund could have
become operative, the August 1998 crisis occurred, the demand for upgraded/renovated housing and office
space declined sharply, and as in the above case the use of loan resources for constructing affordable
housing was deemed too risky; (2) having the City Government adopt the role of lender and financial
intermediary for subsidized transactions with private enterprises could have raised controversial legal and
regulatory issues which had not been adequately considered.
Cultural Fund: In Spring 1999 the Bank and the Government of the Russian Federation agreed to delegate
the responsibility for the implementation of the Cultural Fund from NFHR to FISP. This step was
instrumental in unblocking the implementation of the CF and allowing its successful completion.
Project Administration: In late 1998, project administration was modified as described in section 3.5,
below.
-5-



3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is assessed as unsatisfactory.
As detailed below, in some respects the Quality at Entry was high, but in critical ways it led to problems
that thereafter plagued the project. The assumption that St. Petersburg would outperform other cities as a
property developer had no basis in experience, either in Russia or outside. The institutional analysis
misread critical relationships both within the city and between the city and the national government, leading
to effectiveness delays, implementation problems, and excessive optimism about the pace of needed
regulatory reform. The project administrative structure was ineffective and would have made greater sense
only with a firm Bank commitment to the assertion in the Technical Annex that a US$300 million follow-on
investment project was contemplated. In the event, that unrealized expectation hindered substantive
dialogue both during project implementation and over a follow-on project. The following discussion
highlights both positive and negative aspects of preparation.
Consistency with Bank Strategy: The project was consistent with the country strategy and the 1995 CAS
insofar as it aimed to stimulate private investment in real estate development and rehabilitation. It was also
consistent, at the time of inception, with the Bank's program regarding the preservation of "cultural
heritage." (St. Petersburg was one of the first 5 cities worldwide to be included in this program.) The
project fulfilled this factor to a substantial degree.
Government Ownership and Stakeholder Involvement: During project identification, there was substantial
involvement of local stakeholders, including a December 1995 seminar attended by representatives of
business, local organizations, citizen groups, and government. The SPbCCRP pioneered in the involvement
of non-governmental actors in the project design and in the development of the city strategic plan. The City
of St. Petersburg strongly supported the project and was closely involved in its design. The project fulfilled
this factor to a substantial degree.
Project Design: As noted in section 3. 1, the SPbCCRP design was deficient, was partially inconsistent with
project objectives, provided little incentive for private investment, and selected pilot projects that had
limited replicability. At inception, the project was also overly complex for a relatively small project. The
project fulfilled this factor to a modest degree.
Project Administrative Structure: The project administrative structure was ineffective and did not fully
support achievement of project objectives. Based on a perception that Russian administrative capacity was
weak, the Bank insisted that the City should retain a private firm as a general consultant and that this
contract should be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement. Responsibilities were very broad
and included most day-to-day project work (administration, financial management, design and procurement
for pilot projects, supervision and monitoring); preparation of an Investment Strategy for the Center City
based on the Strategic Plan; and preparation of detailed designs for the expected follow-on project. The
PIU (FISP) was expected to play a relatively minor role and serve primarily as an intermediary between the
GC and the City Government.
However, the GC concept did not work as well as expected. There was infighting among firms in the
consortium, and the inflexibility of the initially-agreed scope of work-which was linked by the firms to an
agreed allocation of resources-hindered the project's ability to respond to changing circumstances (most
importantly, the evolving nature of the expected follow-on project). Also, the administrative arrangement
- 6-



to some extent impeded Bank relations with the Borrower (see also section 7.5, below). There was also the
incongruity of the GC being charged with preparing the follow-on investment project before the outcomes
of pilot efforts under the SPbCCRP could be known. In the event, in late 1998 the Bank decided to transfer
the main administrative responsibilities to the PIU, whose staff increased accordingly.
Institutional Analysis: The Bank significantly underestimated the political difficulties of advancing the
reform agenda within the City Government. The presence of strong project champions in the form of (at
the time) exceptionally powerful figures in the executive branch of city government perhaps led to the
preparation team's failure to recognize a very complex political landscape in which the city legislature, the
Legislative Assembly, had a veto role that they did not hesitate to use. With the turnover in executive
branch officials and a recalcitrant Legislative Assembly, the reforms envisioned by the project progressed
much less rapidly than anticipated. The Bank also did not foresee the issue between the City and Federal
governments over asset ownership, which was a major factor delaying the disposition of Kapella
Courtyards (see below, para 4.2). Finally, City Government agencies were sometimes disinclined to
coordinate among themselves, which hindered project progress (see section 5.2, below). The project
fulfilled this factor to a negligible degree.
Assessment of Risk: One apparent contradiction with the above is that specific risks were well articulated,
including the possibility of insufficient reform effort on the part of the government and problems emanating
from unclear ownership rights. However, listing the risks did not lead to effective project design measures
to mitigate those risks. The project fulfilled this factor to a modest degree.
Readiness for Implementation: Delays were encountered in project effectiveness, and then in project
implementation, leading to an initial rating of "U." The delay in effectiveness was caused because no
sub-loan agreement was in place between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of
the City of St. Petersburg. Also, procurement documentation for Block 130 and Kapella Courtyards
(which was added at negotiations) was not completed by effectiveness. In part this was due to delays in
signing and implementing a grant financed by the Government of Finland to prepare the detailed bidding
documents - including technical conditions. The project fulfilled the readiness for implementation factor to
a negligible degree.
Economic and Financial Analysis: In the preparation of this ICR, it was not possible to replicate the
financial analysis presented in the Technical Annex. The project files do not contain the methodology,
worksheets or underlying data to support the ERR/FRR presented in the Technical Annex. Nor could the
ICR team adduce a methodology that might substantiate the Technical Annex estimates. This made it
impossible to undertake the required ex-post evaluation of economic performance. The project fulfilled this
factor to a modest degree.
Other applicable aspects of Quality at Entry were satisfactory; Technical and environmental aspects
(including safeguard policies); financial management. It should be noted that project compliance with OD
4.30 regarding resettlement was excellent.
On balance, because of deficiencies in essential aspects of the project including project design, institutional
analysis, economic and financial analysis, and readiness for implementation, overall Quality at Entry is
assessed as unsatisfactory.
-7-



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall achievement of project outcome is assessed as unsatisfactory. This conclusion is driven primarily
by the failure of the regulatory reform program designed to create a competitive real estate and business
environment. As an input to this assessment, as noted earlier, project relevance was assessed as modest. In
addition, as described below in section 4.3, for the project as a whole, the expected present value of the net
benefits is negative, resulting in an efficiency rating of negligible.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Technical Cooperation
Overall achievement in the area of Technical Cooperation is assessed as unsatisfactory:
Planning, Administration, and Engineering
Achievement in this area was marginally satisfactory. Technical Assistance was almost exclusively
provided for in a large contract for a GC, as described earlier in section 3.5.
The Strategic Plan, which was not financed by the project, was completed in Summer 1998, made available
to the public, and discussed widely with the stakeholder community in September 1998. Both the Strategic
Plan and Investment Strategy (1999) were recognized as being of high quality, and have had a modest
influence on the thinking and actions of people in both government and the private sector. The Strategic
Plan was completed by the Leontieff Center mainly with USAID support. The extensive consultation
process utilized in the development of the Strategic Plan and the Investment Strategy influenced City
Government, which is now more prone to consult widely before undertaking initiatives in this area.
However, as noted earlier, the Investment Strategy was driven largely by the prospect of a large follow-on
investment project-sponsored by the Bank and potentially other intemational donors-and did not fully
reflect the City's investment priorities.
Institution Building and Regulatory Reform
Institutional Strengthening
TIAS--This subcomponent is assessed as satisfactory. The Construction Committee developed a Territorial
Information and Analytical System (TIAS) under the project which makes available (in both English and
Russian) information on land sites; descriptions of buildings (physical descriptors, age, address, use); maps
of the city and of specific districts; and infrastructure.
TIAS represents a large improvement in making information available by the City Govenmment. For large
Russian developers, who have the resources to obtain their own data, TIAS serves as an initial source and
can give them a "first cut" at examining a particular area. The site is reportedly more useful to potential
foreign investors; approximately 15-20 percent of visitors to the site (3,000 per month in toto) are foreign,
and a mirror server has been established to facilitate foreign access. System developers meet periodically
with users to understand more fully how well the system is meeting their needs, and this year the graphical
- 8-



user interface was changed, a new home page added, and current real estate price data added.
Data utilized in the system are provided by the City Government's Construction Committee and 34 other
entities that have agreed to share information, which was a major step forward. While some data are
updated monthly or quarterly, other suppliers are less timely; for example, infrastructure data are around 2
years old. TIAS maintenance and upgrades are now paid from budgetary finds.
In addition to TIAS, a "Developer's Manual" was published, which provides information on the procedures
necessary for project approval, and provides additional information useful for those in the real estate field.
In terms of institutional strengthening, it should also be noted that use of Bank procurement procedures had
a modest positive impact on procedures used by the City Government (as noted below in Section 4.5).
Regulatory Reform
Achievement in this key area was unsatisfactory. While the City Government assured the Bank on
numerous occasions that it would implement or accelerate reforms (e.g., letter from the Governor at time of
project inception, 1997 statement of the Vice Governor to supervision mission), reforms fell well short of
expectations.
Legislation--Despite the considerable effort made towards achieving legislative reform, this subcomponent
is rated unsatisfactory. Legal and regulatory initiatives prepared under the project have never been
approved by the city legislature, thus contributing very little to positive changes in the city real estate and
land markets or to creating a conducive business environment. So while this "library" of draft legislation
will undoubtedly contribute to a stronger legal framework for real estate development in the future, it has
not yet done so.
Regulation--While progress has been made in the regulatory framework, it has been modest, and some
regulations developed under the project have not yet been implemented. And, although it has improved, the
project approval process in St. Petersburg remains cumbersome. A mid-2000 FIAS study found that the
normal total elapsed time for all steps needed to obtain project approval comprised approximately 15-18
months in St. Petersburg City compared to 8.5-10 months in Novgorod, 10.5-13.4 months in Leningrad
oblast, and 19-25 months in Sverdlovsk oblast. Developers interviewed for the FIAS study ranked the city
lower than other Russian cities in which they were active in terms of ease of project development, and also
stated that "the attitudes and behaviors of St. Petersburg bureaucrats were an impediment to investment."
Specific complaints cited in the report on St. Petersburg include a lack of land, severe problems with
utilities, a bureaucracy still characterized by "command and control" attitudes, a disregard for the time or
costs of project approval, and the existence of a sense of competition rather than cooperation among
bureaucratic agencies.
The unavailability of serviced land sites is perceived by many as a major impediment to investment,
particularly investment by small and mid-sized Russian investors. One incident questioned the city's
commitment to making more vacant land sites available. In 1999, a credible foreign company made a firm
proposal to invest its own funds to develop a large industrial park near the airport, which could have been
marketed to major investors. After an initial expression of interest by the city and significant negotiations,
the deal was terninated by the City Government and the plan taken over by the City Government's
Construction Department, which intends to develop the site for the City Government's account, but lacks
budgetary resources and has been unable to find private financing. The proposed site is attractive, and the
City Government has consistently been unwilling to allow any investor other than itself to engage in
-9-



speculative land development.
In general, with regard to private financing and development of real estate, St. Petersburg developed more
slowly than many other Russian cities.
Pilot Schemes to experiment with and demonstrate new mechanisms for providing traditional or new
services
Achievement in this area was unsatisfactory. As discussed above, the underlying assumption of the pilot
projects was that the municipal government could identify high potential commercial development sites,
undertake site upgrading that would increase site value significantly more than the cost of that upgrading,
and subsequently capture that value through site sales, leases, or increased tax revenue. The city identified
pilot sites extraordinary in their architectural and cultural significance, hence thought to offer the greatest
development potential. The failure to realize pilot project goals, as measured by the negative NPV of the
investments, provides important learning about their ability to usefully directly invest in upgrading aimed at
direct commercial return.
Nevsky Prospekt -The sidewalk improvement works on Nevsky Prospekt were completed in January 2001,
several months earlier than planned. Complementary works under a second contract, including street
lamps, were completed in December 2001. These improvements were successful in improving the overall
attractiveness of Nevsky, and their completion corresponded with a period of increased demand for
commercial properties in the area.
As described below in Section 4.3, the economic return on these works was probably positive, but cannot
be estimated in quantitative terms. Interviews with real estate developers and other knowledgeable
authorities indicate that rents along Nevsky rose substantially during the recovery after the 1998 crisis, but
so did rents in other attractive St. Petersburg locations, and consequently the Nevsky increase cannot be
attributed to the project. Even with the most recent increases, current rents along Nevsky remain around 20
percent below their pre-1998 level. (Replicability is discussed at the end of this section)
Block 130 Improvements--Two contracts in Block 130 were let in September 1999 and October 2000
respectively for the supply and installation of heating plants and replacement and upgrading of utility
networks (heating, water, sewerage, electricity, and gas), as well as access roads.  Rights for the
development of three out of four serviced land plots-each with an area of 1100-2300 m -were successfully
sold at auction in March 2001, and the remaining lot was sold in December 2001 (see Table 1, below).
The procedure used was to sell to private developers the right to develop the plots; after completion of
construction, each developer will receive a 49-year lease at a cost of approximately US$70/m2/year. The
total paid for the right to develop the lots was US$2.26 million, or US$34.3 per square meter:
Table 1--Lots Auctioned in Block 130
Lot number         Area, m2             Date of auction       Price paid, US$
1                  1,131                March 2001           354,000
2                   1,297                March 2001           475,000
3                   1,891                December 2001       427,000
4                   2,271                March 2001           1,006.000
Total              6,590                                    12,262,000
-10-



The original concept also included the construction of a pedestrian mall with space on the mall leased to
small businesses. Only some paving work was done.
Kapella Courtyards--The official inauguration of the Kapella Courtyard complex took place in September
2000, and the reconstruction of the interior of the Tsar's Pavilion was completed in December 2001.
However, the retail space created in the area (about 1200 m), although upgraded and intended for
auctioning to private developers, remains idle as of this writing. Thus, the goal of this pilot-to provide
an example of how public investment in renovation/ revitalization of a historical site in the center city might
pay off through selling or leasing the newly created or rehabilitated premises in the area-has not yet been
realized.
Two legal and procedural impediments hindered the auction of the Kapella premises: (1) the issue of
delineation of Federal and City property (which was finally resolved in April 2001); and (2) change of the
classification of some Kapella premises earmarked for lease/sale from residential to non-residential.
Replicability-Negative NPV plagued virtually all of the pilot projects. Given the extraordinarily rich
cultural value of the pilots, the approaches taken in this component are unlikely to produce higher returns in
other parts of the city. Block 130 constituted a model in which the city completed and (using the loan
proceeds) paid for infrastructure improvements, and then sold the rights to develop adjacent blocks of land.
As far as could be determined, this model was not utilized in other city development-the principal reason
being that the Bank did not proceed with the envisioned follow-on investment loan, and the City
Government did not choose to adopt this development strategy for subsequent investments. Instead, the
City Government utilized a model for infrastructure provision (e.g., at Sennaya Square) wherein developers
were asked to fund and complete infrastructure upgrades (of main trunk lines), and were compensated by
being given adjacent land blocks. A number of private developers stated that the model utilized in Block
130 was more attractive for them because it was more predictable: in effect, they did not have to be
concerned about variability in infrastructure "technical conditions."
The renovation of Kapella Courtyards appeared to be unique, and as in the earlier cases no analogous
examples of development were identified.
Involuntary Resettlement--In the process of work done on Kapella Courtyards and Block 130, the
resettlement of 18 households, comprising 55 persons, was required. A sociological study of the impact of
the resettlement was completed as part of project appraisal. The City Government had a well-established
legal and regulatory framework for dealing with relocation issues that protected the rights and interests of
residents. The framework was extensively reviewed by the Bank, and found satisfactory and entirely in
conformance with the requirements of OD 4.30.
The resettlement process was carried out by the City Registration Bureau for Property Titles, and began in
February 1999. Residents of affected buildings were interviewed individually and asked about their
preferences concerning alternative housing, in particular: location; type of residence; transport and
accessibility to their place of employment or study. On average, 3-5 options were presented to each
affected resident, and the Bureau provided visits to potential sites. In every case, alternative housing was
offered that was (1) of a value at least as much as the space being vacated; and (2) in accordance with
regulations on minimum space standards. Resettlement on the basis of monetary compensation alone was
not considered excepting cases where residents expressly agreed to such a procedure.
After residents agreed on a new home, the Bureau prepared the appropriate documents and each person
- 1 1 -



was provided with a new residence. All resettlement actions taken under the Project were carefully
supervised by the City Govermment, with full reports submitted to the Bank.
Residents affected by resettlement were provided with housing that was at least as desirable as that which
they vacated-and in many cases was assessed as being even more attractive and advantageous.
Cultural Fund-This subcomponent is assessed as satisfactory. It consisted of a US$1 million fund to
assist nine federally-owned cultural organizations in St. Petersburg to improve their ability to generate
non-budgetary revenue through provision of grants for upgrading their facilities and initiating special
projects. The institutions assisted were nationally and internationally recognized institutions (Section 10
provides a complete list), and the grants were essentially used for projects that extended the institutions'
core function in a way that successfully generated additional revenues.
Examples of sub-grants include:
- A US$200,000 grant to the State Mariinsky theater for a state-of-the-art digital recording studio.
Using the studio, the theater is able to make CDs of its performances, which can then be sold or
provided to Patrons. In its first year of operation, limited rights to use the new studio were leased to a
large international music firm for US$100,000. In 2001, the theater estimates that revenues from the
new facility totaled US$112,000.
- A grant of US$200,000 to the State Hermitage Museum for the production of a more sophisticated and
up to date guidebook. The new guidebook replaced a 15-year-old version, and sells for US$12-15.
The Bank grant was used to purchase paper, with complementary financing of US$200,000 provided
by a private Italian firm (which did the printing). The new book is available in four languages (versus
two previously), and the initial printing is selling rapidly; the Russian language version is currently
being reprinted.
- A US$158,000 grant to the State Rimsky-Korsakov Conservatory to renovate the 600-seat Glazunov
Concert Hall and adjacent spaces. The renovation permitted the Conservatory to open concerts to the
public, and during the September 2001-April 2002 season there were approximately 3 public concerts
per week. Tickets were priced at 30-50 rubles, and revenue during that period averaged approximately
US$5,000 per month. After the award of the sub-grant under the SPBCCRP, the Conservatory
received an additional grant of US$200,000 from the GOR for renovation.
Within the Cultural Fund component, several seminars were presented on how to write grant proposals, and
several other institutions assisted with the evaluation of the competitive bids received: Soros Foundation;
Eurasia Foundation; CEC International; Trust for Mutual Understanding; US Information Service.
Operation and maintenance of facilities created or rehabilitated under the Cultural Fund is being undertaken
by the beneficiary institutions from budgetary funds (as augmented by the new income sources).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Nevsky Prospekt--Rents and property values on the Nevsky Prospekt rose substantially in the period of the
SPBCCRP, however, it was not possible to estimate the extent to which this increase was due to
improvements completed under the project. This was because the rapid economic recovery after the 1998
crisis drove up property values in all areas of St. Petersburg, and it was not possible to determine what part
of the increased values along Nevsky were due to improvements sponsored by the project, and which were
due to the overall rise in property values. Interviews with private real estate developers active in the area
- 12 -



and other knowledgeable observers were not successful in developing quantitative estimates of the project
contribution.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Kapella Courtyards-- Expenditures on renovation were around US$1.8 million (most incurred in 1999 and
2000), of which the City contributed US$0.7 million. However, as described in section 4.2 above, Kapella
Courtyards have not yet been auctioned, and so no revenue has been received and the Net Present Financial
Value of the Kapella subcomponent is highly negative.
Block 130-The analysis of the Net Present Financial Value of the improvements to Block 130 is shown in
Annex 3, with the NPV calculated at negative $77,000. This estimate incorporates the following data and
assumptions:
*   Costs: Actual data provided from project records, with project costs of around US$4.7 million,
most incurred in 1999 and 2000.
*   Revenues: Actual income from property sales as described above in Table 1; lease income
assumed to begin in July 2004, with rate set at US$70/m2/year (per norms provided by City
Construction Committee); increased property tax payments projected at approximately 10% of
rental payments, i.e., US$46,000/year also starting in July 2004; increased taxes from
supplementary business activities projected at US$23,000/year starting in 2004.
*   Discount rate set at 7.8%, i.e., LIBOR + 1%, with project start set at 1/1/1999. (This discount
rate is the same as used in the original ERR/FRR calculations)
The main reason for the negative NPV appears to be the timing of the respective costs and revenues. While
Block 130 has yielded and is expected to yield substantial returns, much of this occurred or will occur
relatively late in the project, e.g., revenue from sale of the 4 buildings was received in 2001 (US$2.26
million); rental payments and increased real estate tax revenue are expected to start in 2004 (US$0.53
million/year). In contrast, projects costs were incurred much earlier: US$4.7 million in 1999 and 2000.
So for the project as a whole, the expected present value of the net financial benefits (NPFV) is negative,
resulting in an efficiency rating of negligible, per OP 10.04 and OED methodological guidelines. As noted
earlier in section 3.5, the ICR could not find sufficient evidence or underlying data to re-estimate the
ERR/FRR as presented in the original project documents
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, Institutional Development Impact was modest.  On the positive side, City Government
procurement procedures were improved by staff who benefited from utilizing the Bank procedures. And, as
described earlier, the extensive consultation process utilized in development of the Strategic Plan and the
Investment Strategy has significantly influenced the City Government, which is now more prone to consult
widely before undertaking initiatives.
In the context of resolving the delineation of Federal/City ownership which occurred in April 2001, a
process of learning took place on both sides that will probably facilitate the resolution of future situations
such as this.
On the negative side, less progress than envisioned was made in the area of legislative and regulatory
- 13 -



reform.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The 1998 Financial Crisis Slowed Project Progress-The 1998 crisis hindered the City Government's
ability to provide funding as agreed under the project (explained in further detail in section 7.5 below).
This caused the project to incur additional costs and slowed progress. It also increased the purchasing
capacity of the loan proceeds (due to the dramatic plunge of the Russian Ruble to USD), thus allowing for
procurement of additional rehabilitation works.
Poor Coordination Between City Agencies Hindered Project Advancement-While some City
Government agencies wholeheartedly supported the project, others did not. This delayed and hindered
project progress.
5.3 Factors generally subject to inmplementing agency control:
None.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total original project cost was US$46 million, of which US$31 million was the Bank contribution.
Cofinancing of US$1.18 million was provided by the Government of Finland, and US$0.44 million by
USAID, with the balance provided by the Government. The project disbursed the entire US$31 million as
envisioned. The original closing date of December 31, 2000, was extended twice, and the project was
closed on April 30, 2002.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the benefits achieved is assessed as likely. The benefits of the TIAS system is likely to be
sustained; it is being maintained and upgraded from budgetary funds, and is utilized by both foreign and
domestic investors. The Investment Strategy is of modest use, and seems likely to continue to be of use as
additional funds for infrastructure investment become available. The modest progress in the regulatory
framework that was achieved during the SPBCCRP seems likely to continue and accelerate if the follow-on
Bank operation currently being prepared becomes effective. As now contemplated, that operation would
continue assistance to cultural institutions, with the goal of reduced long run dependence on budgetary
funds.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Bank is currently preparing a follow-on operation which will carry forward progress on the legal and
regulatory environment, as well as supporting cultural institutions.
- 14 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Lending was unsatisfactory. Quality at Entry has been described in detail in section 3.5 and was assessed
as unsatisfactory, principally due to deficiencies of design, institutional analysis, and readiness for
implementation.
It should be noted that from project inception until October, 1998, both the Bank and the Borrower
perceived this project as the first phase of a larger (US$300 million) investment project. From late 1998,
however, the Bank's vision of the follow-on project shifted from that of an investment operation to a
policy-based operation, which is the nature of the operation now being prepared. It is understood that the
Government accepted the relatively large proportion of project funds which went to the General Consultant
(nearly US$10 million) because it viewed this as laying a foundation for a much larger investment project.
Also, the Bank's changing emphasis on Cultural Heritage (stronger at project inception, then waning during
implementation) was confusing to the Borrower.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision was satisfactory. The project team focused on achieving project goals, dropped problematical
components, and successfully overcame obstacles to implementation. Project supervision was reviewed by
the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) in 1998 and 1999 and assessed as satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
On the basis of unsatisfactory Quality at Entry, Bank Performance is assessed as overall unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower perfornance in project preparation was satisfactory. City Government agencies participated
actively in all aspects of preparation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
City Government implementation performance was unsatisfactory. In particular, the City Govermment did
not make as much progress as envisioned in legal and regulatory reform:
*   Progress in privatization of city-owned land was modest; as of project close, around 90 percent of city
land remained in City Government ownership, with around 8 percent privatized (the percent privatized,
however, is greater than in many other Russian cities).
* Little progress was made with regard to zoning (in contrast to several other Russian cities).
*   Minimal progress was made in the areas of subdivision law (plot formation), or mortgaging of city
leaseholds.
*   Legal and regulatory initiatives prepared under the project have never been effected (i.e., approved by
the city legislature), thus contributing little to positive changes in the city real estate and land markets
or to creating a conducive business environment.
However, St. Petersburg did make modest progress in improving the process for obtaining building pernits,
which remained difficult (over 120 approvals needed), but which was made somewhat more efficient and
- 15 -



transparent during the SPbCCRP.
After project initiation, misunderstandings developed between the GC and the City Government. The City
Govermnent believed that the GC was not producing outputs commensurate with the resources being
consumed, and therefore requested a change in project management. The GC complied with this request
and a new manager was appointed.
The macroeconomic framework maintained by the Borrower was not conducive to project performance.
The 1998 financial crisis made achievement of project objectives more difficult by reducing private sector
interest in investing in Russia.
And, as described earlier in section 5.2, poor coordination between some government agencies hindered
project progress.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Throughout the project implementation period FISP demonstrated strong conumitment and action towards
project objectives. The FISP management was particularly successful in human resource development
having built a team of qualified professionals which proved to be able to handle most complex tasks
efficiently. The FISP also supported coordination between different parties involved in the Project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On the basis of unsatisfactory implementation performance, overall Borrower performance is assessed as
unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Project Design Must be Aligned with Objectives--The SPbCCRP objectives placed considerable
emphasis on policy and regulatory reform, but because this was an investment project, the design did not
sufficiently support the achievement of this reform. Once initiated, investments cannot be stopped because
of poor policy performance. Additionally, the project objectives emphasized carrying out physical
improvements that could be replicated on a larger scale, but the replicability of the pilot projects chosen
was limited.
The Way the TA was Contracted Impeded the Ability of Both the Bank and the Borrower to Learn
from the Pilot Project. In this case virtually all of the TA, including that related to preparation of the next
project, was to be provided within the GC contract; however, the terms and conditions of this contract were
not flexible enough to allow for changes in the consultant's scope of work so as to reflect the evolving
nature of the follow-on project.
An Assessment of the Reform Climate Must Include the Local Legislature. The Bank team dealt
principally with the executive branch of the City Government, and could have benefited from greater
contact with the Legislative Assembly in its assessment of the willingness and ability of the City to carry
out reforms.
- 16-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing a gency:
BwE-rYBEPHATOP
PiPE-CEAATEJL ICOMHTETA
I=lO CTPOHTECT3Y
190000;,- , -   r,i6tpeicazpeMaf   76
Texkia (812) 319:,9034(8;12)3X9::93-14
4.xc (12)310-00-02
Ea. N9.,         OT.
Richard L. Clifford
Deputy Country Director and
Head of the Russian Country Office
Dear Mr. Clifford,
After reviewing the Implementation Completion Report on St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation
Project, prepared by the World Bank specialists, we consider necessary to draw your attention to the
following moments.
1.  Significant results have been achieved in the field of economic and institutional refonns in the
course of implementation of the Center City Rehabilitation Project. Investment Strategy for St.
Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation was developed and approved in 1999. This program is
implemented in the following directions: improving the investment climate, improving the effectiveness
of public investments, stimulation of the economic growth and demand for real estate, improving the
physical environment for investments. Main attention in the Investment Strategy is paid to the
institutional reform. In the sphere of demonopolization of economy and competitiveness development
several laws have been developed; unification of principles of providing tax concession to enterprises
has been made; number municipal contracts awarded through open bids has increased. In the period of
1998-2002 special measures towards reduction of inspections by supervisory bodies in commercial
enterprises' activities were taken. Number of state supervisory bodies was reduced, procedures of
inspection were regularized,
- 17 -



procedures of enterprise establishment, licensing and getting approvals for business development were
significantly simplified. Several normative acts in the sphere of reforming budgetary finance system
and improving tax climate were adopted. In the period between September 1997 and 2002 66 laws and
nearly 1700 normative acts of executive authorities aiming at regulating of relations in the sphere of the
real estate and urban development have been adopted. Stakeholders and citizens are regularly informed
and involved in the investment decision making process affecting interests of the citizens.
2. Project Administrative Structure considered in the ICR ineffective, had been conditioned by the
Bank requirements and had been standard for that period. It was the Bank who persisted on signing the
Contract with the General Consultant, and made it a conditionality for the Loan Agreement to become
effective. It was originally planned that in the course of the contract execution Russian specialists would
take over and start working instead of costly foreign experts, who would leave the project. Realization
of this concept allowed saving funds and extending the contract with the General Consultant for one
year without increasing the contract price. The contacts of the Bank and the Borrower were regular and
effective, which allowed to timely react to changes in the course of the Project and to solve problems of
the administrative functions distribution to the best advantage.
3. The Bank's statement given in the ICR that the city government agencies were disinclined to
coordinate their activities is not justified. Special thematic committees were created on the following
directions for the Investment Strategy development: social and economic development of the city center,
investment policy, legislative, institutional and information conditions for reconstruction; urban
planning and investment projects. These committees were formed by representatives of the main
committees of the City Administration, experts and stakeholders. The Investment Strategy has been
developed as a result of three rounds of discussion and approval in subsections of the City
Administration of St. Petersburg and thematic committees. The Working Group was created for
preparation of the St. Petersburg Economic Development Project. It was formed by representatives of
the key committees of the City Administration. All the committees have cooperated with the World
Bank both during mission visits and by providing necessary information.
More detailed information on evaluation of the Project is given in the Attachment to this letter.
Vice-Governor -
Head of the Construction Committee                         A. Vakhmistrov
- 18-



Attachment
Comments to ICR sections
3.1 Original Objective:
Assessment of the Objectives
Bank's promise of a large follow-on loan by no means predicated the development of the Investment
Strategy. This was a program of the City notwithstanding the sources of finance. The Strategy consisted
of 4 sections, the emphasis of which was on institutional reform and not on investment projects.
The project design presumed that the City was committed to the reform. That is absolutely true.
Although the disbursement of funds was not directly determined by the reform the City was aware of the
necessity to change regulatory framework aiming at the improvement of business climate and financial
management (See Assessment of Project Efficiency).
Objective (d) does not conflict with objective (b). The comment on incompliance of these objectives
reveals misunderstanding of the pilot projects nature. Statement that the City Government played the
direct role in the commercial development is not correct. As a matter of fact the Government of St.
Petersburg made investments in infrastructure development of Block 130 and Kapella. Besides, property
rights were issued for the further auctioning of the land plots. It is impossible to attract private
developers to the parcels, which lack engineering infrastructure, no matter how marvelous the regulatory
framework is. The city replicated this experience at other sites (e.g.: Pulkovo-3). The statement that the
City utilized a different technology and made developers to pay for the infrastructure is incorrect. (See
section "Replicability").
3.3 Original Component:
Block 130
Construction of the new apartments for elderly residents was included in pilot project "Block 130" not
in accordance with criterion "belonging to the same territory", but in accordance with the criterion of
essence: it was presumed that building 108M would be resettled.
Term construction of a Pedestrian Mall was understood as engineering service of the area in the center
of the block (engineering infrastructure provision, demolition of dilapidated premises, removal of
contaminated soil), subdivision of land, sale of land parcels to the private investors in conformity with
the approved urban development regulations ensuring preservation of the pedestrian street and
commercial use of the first and second floors of newly constructed buildings.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The following statement is absolutely unclear: "The assumption that St. Petersburg would outperform
other cities as a property developer had no basis in experience, either in Russia or outside".
Project administrative design was not related to the provisions of USD 300 million. The hindrance to the
dialog with the Bank was not in the unrealized expectations of a bigger loan, but Bank's constant
imposing to the Governor the idea of reforming city administration design and introducing the position
of Vice-Govemor, who would be in charge only of the preparation and implementation of the IBRD
loan.
-19-



Project Design
The Federal Government and the Government of St.Petersburg consider the project design consistent
with the objectives of the project. The great experience was achieved in the preparation of the
development strategy. Replicability of pilot projects is unlimited. Lessons of pilot projects
implementation were taken into account for the preparation of the reform program for 2002-2004.
Project fulfilled this factor to a great degree.
Project Administrative Structure
There was no infighting among firms composing General Consultant consortium. It was originally
planned that in the course of the contract execution Russian specialists would take over and start
working instead of costly foreign experts would leave the project. Realization of this concept allowed
saving funds and extending the contract with the General for one year without increasing the contract
price. The statement that administrative arrangement impeded Bank relations with the Borrower is not
justified (reference to para 7.5 does not explain anything).
Institutional Analysis
The statement that the city government agencies were disinclined to coordinate their activities as well as
the use of a veto right by the City Duma needs to be proved. The Working Group was established for
the purposes of the project implementation, which included the representatives of all key committees of
the City administration.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs.
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective
Unsatisfactory assessment of project objective achievement is mainly caused by the failure to implement
regulatory action plan. This point of view is rather subjective, as the project documents did not contain
any specific program with the list normative documents and implementation indicators. The City Policy
Letter, which was related to the regulations in the real property area, identified the major directions of
the reform. A number of objectives were successfully achieved (see: project implementation efficiency).
Calculation of the value of the net benefits should be reviewed.
4.2 Outputs by components.
Technical cooperation
Planning, Administration, and Engineering
The statement that the Investment Strategy was driven largely by the prospect of a large follow up
investment project and did not fully reflect the city investment priorities is not true to fact. Bank's
promise to provide a large loan had no impact on the development of the Investment strategy. This is the
city program notwithstanding the sources of finance. The Strategy consists of 4 sections, in which great
attention is paid to institutional reform and not to the investment projects.
Regulatory Reform
The statement that reforms fell well short of expectations needs to be justified.
Regulation
-20 -



The example of a credible foreign company proposing to service land sites near the airport and
unwillingness of the City to develop this land, as well as of the lack of budgetary funds is not a good
one. It was probably cited from a credible foreign company. Land sites near the airport were fully
serviced through the budgetary funds, 80% of lots were sold to large private investors on competitive
basis (Housing project experience and pilot project Block 130 were used.)
The phrase that St. Petersburg in general in regard to private financing and development of real estate
developed more slowly than many other Russian cities must be justified by figures.)
Pilot Schemes to experiment with and demonstrate new mechanisms for providing traditional or new
services
The underlying assumption of the pilot projects sites was not identification of the high commercial
potential, but testing new approaches to the complex reconstruction of one block in the historic center of
St. Petersburg (Block 130) (selected on a random basis) and to the reconstruction of a building
complex being federal property (Kapella). One cannot assert that due to negative NPV of the
investments objectives of the pilots were not met.
Block 130
The idea of the project was to service the site for further land development and to sell the development
right of newly created vacant lots to private investors. Apart from 4 lots building 8a on Vosstaniya
street, building 102 / 1-3 on Nevsky prospect, building 102-104 on Nevsky prospect were transferred to
private investors for reconstruction. Applications for the land between buildings 39-43 on Zhukovsky
street (underground parking), building 43 on Zhukovsky street, building 106 on Nevsky prospect are
being reviewed by the Investment-Tender Commission. As to the original concept of the pedestrian mall
with spaces leased to the small businesses the idea had died before project started.
Kapella courtyards
Experiment on real estate complex Kapella courtyards had a great result. Program for restructuring the
whole complex of buildings was adopted, federal monuments were distinguished, residential buildings
were released from the status of federal monuments. Residential buildings were transferred for
reconstruction to a private investor. The design documentation is being developed. The reconstruction is
planned to begin at the second quarter of 2003. If the concept of the experiment changed during its
implementation, the experiment cannot be considered a failure.
Replicability
The City uses the experience of Block 130 project on the sites near the airport. Coordination of this
model with provision of a follow up loan has no grounds.
4.4 Financial rate of return
All calculations require thorough review. Unfortunately basing on available data it is impossible to
make any comments on the net present financial value.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
The statement that some City govemment agencies supported the project, while others did not is not
-21 -



justified.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance.
7.1 Lending
The phrase the Bank's changing emphasis on Cultural Heritage (stronger at project inception, then
waning during implementation) was confusing to the Borrower needs clarification.
7.5 Government implementation performance.
The City Government considered that the progress made by the General consultant was much slower
than it should be. In the Govermment's opinion the main reason for it was bad management. At the
initial stage lack of the Russian personal led to the problems in finding understanding between the
General Consultant and the City. The phrase poor coordination between some government agencies
hindered project progress should be clarified and justified.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
-22-



10. Additional Information
Projects Undertaken under the Cultural Fund
Institution        Amount of Grant                  Activity Supported
($US, 000)
State Hermitage Museum           200         Printing updated, higher quality guidebook; first edition
(50,000) has sold well; attracted US$200,000 funding
from Italian printing firm
State Mariinsky Theater          158         Equip state-of-the-art digital recording studio. Theater
can now make CDs of performances, which can be sold
or provided to Patrons. In first year of operation, limited
rights to use new studio leased to large international
music firm for US$100,000. Estimated 2001 revenues
from new studio $112,000.
St. Petersburg State             158         Renovate 600-seat Glazunov Concert Hall and adjacent
Rimsky-Korsakov                              spaces; permits public concerts; revenue during 2001-02
Conservatory                                 season $5,000/month. Conservatory received
US$2000,000 grant from GOR after award from Cultural
Fund.
State Russian Museum              60         Develop 10 educational videos on history of Russian art
based on Museum collection and "The Russian Museum
for Children;" projected sales of videotapes on track to
reach 100,000 over 3 years; profit for first half of 2001
was $14,800.
Russian National Library          64         Develop on-site bookstore and computerized Information
Center, offering internet access as well as membership
access to major international databases
Institute of Russian Literature   80         Publication of 35 books dedicated to study of Pushkin
(Pushkin House)                              poetry and other Russian culture. Profit for year ending
3/31/01 was $25,050 (of which 68% went to publishing
house that printed the books)
Kunstkammer (Peter the great     130         Refurbish workshop to produce souvenirs and replicas of
Museum of Anthropology and                   items in Museum collection; revenue in 3rd quarter of
Ethnography                                  2001 was $7,400.
Russian Museum of                 60         Create Center for Educational Programs, with emphasis
Ethnography                                  on children's programs
Russian State Historical         58          Development of Archives research complex including
Archives                                     educational center and mini-hostel.
-23-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
b;E          _iS FORdI It mm
(a) (i) Decisions of the City                                      The Strategic Plan for St. Petersburg
government on the implementation of                                was approved at a ceremonial
the Strategic Plan.                                                meeting in Smolny palace on
December 1, 1997. A 'Temporary
Provision on Strategic Planning in St
Petersburg in 1998-2000' was
accepted by the Executive Committee
of the Strategic Plan.
(a) (ii) Development of short-term and                             The City developed short and
mid-tern development plans.                                        medium-term development plans,
consistent with the Strategic Plan and
the Investment Strategy, on an
as-needed basis.
(b) (i) List and evaluate new                                      The following documents, mainly
regulatory and legal documents.                                    draft laws and other legal and
regulatory acts, were prepared under
the project and submitted to the City
Legislative Assembly for review and
approval:
1. Draft Law on Introducing Changes
in and Additions to the Law on
Investments in Real Estate in St.
Petersburg;
2. Draft Law on Regulation of Urban
Planning Activities in St.
Petersburg;
3. Draft Guidelines for Developing
Regulations of Land Use and
Development (Regulations of
Land Use and Development in St.
Petersburg);
4. Draft Regulations on Applying
Real Estate Development
Regulations in St. Petersburg
(General Part of Regulations of
Land Use and Development in St.
Petersburg);
5. Draft Governor's Decree on St.
Petersburg City Commission for
Land Use and Development;
6. Draft Governor's Decree on
Allowing Mortgaging Leasehold
Interest in Land Plots Allocated
on Investment Conditions;
7. Draft Regulations on Reserving
Land for Public and Municipal
Needs (first version);
8. Draft Regulations on the
Procedures for Designing Land
Demarcation Projects (first
version);
9. Package of standard documents on
land use, lease, and development;
lO.Draft Law on Developers'
-24 -



Shareholding in Improvement of
Primary Infrastructure Facilities
(first version);
I I.Draft Regulations on the Prime
Developer and Comprehensive
Improvement of Areas;
(b) (ii) An increasing percentage of                                Data not available.
non-budgetary investments in
construction and rehabilitation of
buildings
(b) (iii) An increasing percentage of                               Lots identified in Block 130 were
lots and buildings on blocks included                              sold to private developers during
in this project will be awarded to                                  2001; the commercial space created
developers on a competitive basis for                               under the Project in the Kapella
rehabilitation.                                                     Courtyards has not been sold.
(b) (iv) An increase in cost recovery                               Between January 2000 and January
for building maintenance and utilities                              2001, the cost recovery figures across
due to increase in rents and utility                               all utilities in St. Petersburg dropped
payments with subsidies targeted                                    from 65.6% to 61.1% (52.3% in
increasingly to low-income groups of                                Moscow in January 2001).
the population
(c) (i) Mass media (e.g., number of                                 More than 30 press-releases and
publications, including ads and TV                                  other publications were prepared in
programs).                                                         the course of the project to support
different components; Starting late
1998, a quarterly bulletin on project
developments has been issued.
(c) (ii) Direct work with the public and                            Press conferences were held to mark
with public organizations (i.e.,                                   events of the project life, such as
meetings with the public, etc.).                                    inauguration of pilots or opening of
cultural; general public and NGOs
were informed and consulted on the
project program.
(d) (i) Preparation of tender                                       Tender documents were prepared by
documentation.                                                     the General Consultant in a number
and quality satisfactory for the project
purposes.
(d) (ii) Signed contracts (number).                                 6 major contracts for procurement of
goods and civil works together with a
number of smaller contracts for
supervision of works were signed
under the Pilot Schemes component.
(d) (iii) Disbursements (amount)                                   USD 24.0 million were disbursed
under the project including some
USD 17.0 from the loan proceeds.
(e) (i) Percentage of $1 million loan                               100% of loan proceeds allocated for
allocation disbursed under pilot                                    the Cultural Fund component of the
subproject.                                                         Project were disbursed.
-25-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
1'~~                 ~     ~~~~       ~~ AW!U I  F5_ZDrniW ~   _
1-____             .   ___________   ika.                      1   B r       -I
1. Technical Cooperation                     17.40          15.17         87.18
2. Pilot Schemes                             21.80          25.88        118.72
3. PIU Operating Expenditures                                2.08
Total Baseline Cost                          39.20          43.13        110.03
Unallocated (contingencies)                     3.9
Physical Contingencies         2.4
Price Contingencies        1.5
Indirect Cost of City Support                  3.0            3.0
Total Project Costs
Total Financing Required        46.10          46.13        100.20
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
ntliture ~ ~  ~     ~    rouemn Mjo. Catetii-w1
1. Works                      1.50         11.80        1.40         0.20         14.90
(1.20)        (9.10)       (1.10)       (0.00)      (11.40)
2. Goods                     7.10          0.00         2.00          0.00        9.10
(4.30)        (0.00)       (1.70)       (0.00)      (6.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         13.90        3.50         17.40
(0.00)        (0.00)      (11.80)       (0.00)      (11.80)
4. Housing Sub-loans         0.00          0.00         1.80          0.00        1.80
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.80)       (0.00)      (1.80)
5. Indirect Costs to City    0.00          0.00         0.00         3.00         3.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Other                                                                          0.00
0             0            0            0          (0.00)
Total                      8.60         11.80        19.10         6.70        46.20
(5.50)        (9.10)      (16.40)       (0.00)      (31.00)
-26-



Projct ost byProuremnt  (0.95)mnts(0.00)Laes          (0.92at)       (0.00)lio     (1.87) nt
1. Works                        20.92           0.39           0.43          0.00          21.74
(15.10)         (0.31)        (0.35)         (0.00)        (15.76)
2. Goods                         1.30           0.00           1.09          0.00           2.39
(0.95)         (0.00)         (0.92)        (0.00)         (1.87)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00          15.60          2.12          17.72
(0.00)         (0.00)        (13.38)        (0.00)        (13.38)
4. Housing Sub-loans             0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Indirect Costs to City        0.00           0.00           0.00          3.00           3.00
(O .00)        (O .00)        (O .00)       (O .00)       (O .00)
6. Other                         0.00           0.00           0.00           1.25          1.25
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         22.22          0.39           17.12          6.37         46.10
(16.05)         (0.31)        (14.65)        (0.00)        (31.01)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I. Technical Cooperation  11.80     2.00      3.50      11.35      2.20      1.62     96.2   110.0  46.3
2. Pilot Schemes          16.00     5.40      0.50      17.63      7.75      0.50    110.2   143.5  100.0
3. PIU Operating                                         2.02      0.06
Expenditures
TotalB aseline Cost      27.80      7.40      4.00      31.00      10.01     2.12     111.5  135.3  53.0
Unallocated Contingencies  3.20     0.70                                              0.0     0.0
Indirect Cost of City               3.00                           3.00                      100.0
Support
TOTAL                    31.00      11.10     4.00      31.00      13.01     2.12     100.0  117.2   53.0
-27 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 1. Block 130: Cash Flows and Return Analysis
000       1       2       _       Q4       _         2        3                           2 _3              4
CAPITAL           479     192      179      298      188     673      1,420    1,054     171       0        0        0
COSTS,
including:
Site improvement  0.0    191.7    178.7    308.6    187.8   650.2    1,380.1  1,004.5   154.7     0.0      0.0      0.0
and initial
en ineerinz work
Boiler equipment  0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Tenant relocation  479.2  0.0      0.0     -11.1     0.0     22.8     40.0     49.3      16.7     0.0      0.0      0.0
costs
OTHER              0       0        10       9        0       17       31       13        1        6        0        0
COSTS,
includlng:        _
Project design  0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
and preparation                                                            I
Engineering   0.0     0.1      10.4     8.9      0.0     16.7     31.0     13.3      0.7      6.0      0.0      0.0
supervision and
work control
Other budget   0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
expenses (tax
exemptions)
TOTAL             -479   -192      -189    -306     -188     -690    -1,451    -1,067    -172      -6       0        0
PROJECT
COSTS (PC)
Discounting      0.981   0.9631   0.945    0.9276  0.9104   0.8934   0.8768    0.8605   0.8445   0.8288   0.8133   0.7982
factor @ 7.80%     4
rate
Discounted costs  -470    -185     -179    -284     -171     -616    -1,272     -918     -145     -5             0 0
$ 100    Ql      Q2       Q3       Q4       QI       Q2       Q3       Q4       Ql        Q2      Q3       Q4
DIRECT
PROJECT
REVENUES
Lot sale proceeds  0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     1,256.0   0.0      0.0     1,006.0
Budget revenues   0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
(property lease
payrents)
TOTAL             0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     1,256.0    0.0     0.0     1,006.0
DIRECT
PROJECT
REVENUES
(DR)
Same,    0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     1,060.7   0.0      0.0     803.0
discounted flows _
PROJECT           -479   -192      -189    -306     -188     -690    -1,451    -1,067   1,084      -6       0      1,006
CASH
BALANCE
(DR-PC)
Discounting      0.981   0.9631   0.9452   0.9276  0.9104   0.8934   0.8768    0.8605   0.8445   0.8288   0.8133   0.7982
factor @ 7.80%     4
rate
Cash balance,  -470    -185     -179     -284     -171     -616    -1,272    -918      915      -5       0       803
discounted         _                                                       9_ 8
-28-



INDIRECT
PROJECT
REVENUES
Land tax proceeds   0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Taxes from the                                                                                      0.0      0.0      0.0
operation of real
estate
Taxes from          0       0        0       0        0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0
supplementary
business activities
TOTAL               0       0        0        0       0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0
INDIRECT
PROJECT
REVENUES (IR)                                                              _
Same discounted
flows
PROJECT CASH         -    -192     -189     -306     -188     -690    -1,451    -1,067    1,084     -6        0      1,006
BALANCE             47
adjusted for        9
Indirect revenues
(DR-PC)+IR
Discounting factor  0.9  0.9631   0.9452   0.9276   0.9104   0.8934   0.8768    0.8605   0.8445   0.8288   0.8133    0.7982
@ 7.80% rate        81
4
Cash balance,      -  185     -179     -284     -171     -616    -1,272     -918      915      -5        0       803
discounted  47
0
-29 -



-H(iG             -     I__     ___        =          I      Z 11      I          . Oil  M      IE     IWL
$'000   Ql     Q2       3     Q4      Ql      Q        Q3      Q4_
CAPITAL COSTS,      0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
including:                                _
Site improvement  0.   0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
and initial  0
engineerng work     I
Boiler equipment  0.   0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
0
Tenant relocation  0.  0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
costs  0
OTHER COSTS,        0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
including:
Project design and  0.    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
preparation         0
Engineering         0.    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
supervision and     0
work control
Other budget        0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
expenses (tax
exemptions)
TOTAL               0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
PROJECT COSTS
(PC)                                                                ___
Discounting factor  0.  0.7688   0.7545  0.7404  0.7267  0.7131  0.6999  0.6869  0.6371  0.5910  0.5483  0.5086
@ 7.70% rate        78
34
Discounted costs                0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0
s"iiB.ssI         s ___ in~1____                                                                          0
$'000   QI    Q2      Q3      Q4      QI      Q2       Q3      Q4
DIRECT
PROJECT
REVENUES
Lot sale proceeds
Budget revenues     0.    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    230.6   461.3   461.3   461.3
(property lease     0
payments)                                                                                          _
TOTAL DIRECT        0.    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    230.6   461.3    461.3   461.3
PROJECT             0
REVENUES (DR)       =
Same, discounted    0.    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    14&9    272.6   252.9   234.6
flows               0    _  _              _  __                   _  _  _  _ __            _             _  _
PROJECTCASH         0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0      231     461     461     461
BALANCE(DR-
PC)
Discounting factor  0.   0.7688  0.7545  0.7404  0.7267  0.7131  0.6999  0.6869  0.6371  0.5910  0.5483  0.5086
@ 7.80% rate        78
34
Cash balance,  0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0      147     273     253     235
discounted                                                                              _
INDIRECT
PROJECT
REVENUES            _
Land tax proceeds   0.    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
0                                                                          I               I
Taxes from the            0.0                                                     23.1    46.1    46.1    46.1
operation of real
estate
-30 -



INDIRECT
PROJECT
REVENUES                                                                                       ___
Land tax proceeds    0.    0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
0
Taxes from the             0.0                                                      23.1     46.1    46.1    46.1
operation of real
estate
Taxes from           0      0       0       0        0       0       0       0       23       23      23      23
supplementary
business activities
TOTAL DIRECT         O      0       0       0        0       0       0       0       46      69       69      69
PROJECT
REVENUES       )         __R
Same, discounted                                                                   29      41      38       35
flows
PROJECT CASH         0      0       0       0        0       0       0       0       277     531     531     531
BALANCE
adjusted for
indirect revenues
(DR-PC)+IR
Discounting factor   0.  0.7688   0.7545  0.7404  0.7267   0.7131  0.6999  0.6869  0.6371   0.5910  0.5483  0.5086
@ 7.80% rate        78
1 34
Cash balance,        8      0       0       0        0       0       0       0       176     314     291     270
discontinued         _
-31-



$ 000                                                   $ '000
CAPITAL COSTS, including:                         0       0       0      0       0       0      -4,653
Site improvement and initial engineering work  0.0  0.0  0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    -4,056
Boiler equipment  0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0
Tenant relocation costs  0.0   0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0     -598
OTHER COSTS, including:                           0       0       0      0       0       0       -87
Project design and preparation  0.0  0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0
Engineering supervision and work control  0.0  0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     -87
Other budget expenses (tax exemptions)  0    0       0       0      0       0        0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS (PC)                          0       0       0       0      0       0      -4,740
Discounting factor @ 7.80% rate                0.4718  0.4376  0.4059  0.3766  0.3493  0.3240
Discounted costs   0       0       0       0       0      0        0
0~~WS                        00!:8            00    0           1   1
$ '000                                                  $ '000
DIRECT PROJECT REVENU,ES
Lot sale proceeds                                0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    2,262
Budget revenues (property lease payments)       461.3   461.3   461.3   461.3   461.3   461.3   4,382
TOTAL DIRECT PROJECT REVENUES (DR)              461.3   461.3   461.3   461.3   461.3   461.3   6,644
Same, discounted flows  217.6  201.9  187.3   173.7   161.    149.5   3,861.8
PROJECT CASH BALANCE (DR-PC)                     461     461     461    461     461     461     1,904
Discounting factor @ 7.80% rate                 0.4718  0.4376  0.4059  0.3766  0.3493  0.3240
Cash balance, discounted  218    202     187     174     161     149     -384
INDIRECT PROJECT REVENUES
Land tax proceeds                                0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Taxes from the operation of real estate          46.1   46.1    46.1    46.1    46.1    46.1     438
Taxes from supplementary business activities     23      23      23      23      23      23      231
TOTAL DIRECT PROJECT REVENUES (IR)               69      69      69      69      69      69      669
Same, discounted flows  33      30      28     26      24      22
PROJECT CASH BALANCE adjusted for indirect       531     531     531     531     531    531      962
revenues (DR-PC)+IR                                                            _
Discounting factor ( 7.80% rate                 0.4718  0.4376  0.4059  0.3766  0.3493  0.3240
Cash balance, discontinued  250    232    215     200     185     172      -77
-32-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
$j&6otPr6jectiCycIeI                   No. of Persons and Specialty          Performnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists. I FNS. etc)    Implernentation Development
MonthNYeai    Count          Specialty:  -                 Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
September 1995              8   1 Sr. Operations Officer, 1 Pr.
ArchitectlPlanner, I Sr.
Sociologist, 5 Consultants
October 1995               11   1 Sr. Operations Officer, 10
Consultants
November 1995               1   1 Consultant
December 1995               8   1 Sr. Operations Officer, 7
Consultants
Appraisal/Negotiation
May 1996                   12    1 Sr. Operations-Officer, I
Advisor, 10 Consultants
July 1996                   2   1 Division Chief, 1 Sr.
Operations Officer
March 1997                  6   1 Sr. Operations Officer, 1
Advisor, 1 Urban Planner, 1 Pr.
Urban Planner, 2 Consultants
June 1997                   8   1 Sr. Operations Officer, 1
Coordinator, I Engineer, 1 Trust
Funds Coordinator, 1 Urban
Regulatory Specialist, 3
Consultants
Supervision
September 1997              2   1 Sr. Operations Officer, 1       S            HS
Urban Specialist
April 1998                  3    1 Sr. Operations Officer, 1 Urban
Specialist, I Consultant
July 1998                   5   1 Sector Leader, I Chief of       U             S
Mission, I Sr. Operations
Officer, I Engineer/Procurement
Specialist, 1 Legal Counsel
October 1998                S   1 Pr. Urban Planner, I Urban
Planner/Consultant, I Sr.
Financial Economist, I Urban
Specialist, 1 Lead Urban
Specialist
January 1999                4   1 Pr. Urban Planner, 1
Procurement Specialist, I Urban
Specialist, 1
Engineer/Procurement Specialist
June 1999                   4   1 Pr. Urban Planner, I Urban      S             S
Planner, I Financial -
Management Spec., 1
Procurement Spec.
February 2000               6   1 Pr. Urban Planner, 2 Urban      S             S
- 33 -



Planners, I Urban Specialist, 1
Urban Planner/YP, I Municipal
Finance Specialist
June 2000                   3   1 Pr. Urban Planner, 2 Urban      S             S
Specialists
October 2000                4   1 Pr. Urbah Planner, 1 Urban      S             S
Economist, 1 Urban Specialist, 1
Procurement Specialist
May 2001                    1   1 Urban Specialist
ICR
July 2002                   2    ITTL, 1 ICR Specialist           U             U
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  i  i       - .  ActualLatest Estimate
. -.-*: - ................ - .   No; Staff weeks  . ..... US$.('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                            291.82
Supervision                                                      623.13
ICR
Total                                                            914.95
-34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0 Macro policies                       O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                      O H   OSU*M      O N  O NA
O Physical                             O H   OSU*M      O N  O NA
O Financial                            O H   OSUOM      * N  O NA
El Institutional Development           0 H   O SU *M    0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
OI Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Gender                         OH OSUOM ON * NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H   OSUOM     O N   O NA
O Private sector development           0 H   O SU * M   0 N 0 NA
OI Public sector management            0 H   O SUO M    0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
K] Lending                                         OHS OS       *U     OHU
O Supervision                                      OHS*S        Ou     O HU
El Overall                                         OHS OS       * u    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
El Preparation                                     OHS OS       O u    O HU
O Government implementation performance            O HS O 5     * U    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
Ol Overall                                         OHS OS       *u     O HU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.     Russian Federation - St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project: Technical Annex No.
T6998 dated February 27, 1997.
2.     Russia Federation - St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project: Supervision Mission
Back-to-Office Reports dated: June 30, 1997; November 16, 1997; April 14, 1998; June 26, 1998;
February 3, 1999; June 25, 1999; February 8, 2000; April 10, 2000; July 7, 2000; October 24,
2000; July 4, 2001; November 28, 2001; December 18, 2001; April 29, 2002.
- 37 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project
(Loan 4144 RU)
Implementation Completion Report
Foundation of Investment Projects (FISP)
of the Government of Saint Petersburg
1. General information
The St. Petersburg City Center Rehabilitation Project has been implemented under Loan Agreement No
4144 RU made by and between the Government of the Russian Federation and the World Bank in
October 1997.
Project Implementation Period - April 1998 - April 2002
Loan Amount - US$31 million
Project Participants - RF Government, World Bank, and St. Petersburg Administration
In keeping with the Concept Note approved by the RF Government, the World Bank, and the City in
August 1996, loan funds were made available for the implementation of a set of measures to support the
establishment of a favorable business climate for the expansion of private investment in the
rehabilitation and construction in the historic city center.
The Federal Targeted Program for the Preservation and Development of the Historic Center of St.
Petersburg, adopted by the RF Government in 1996, defined the physical condition of real estate in the
historic center and determined general financing needs for its rehabilitation. Given that only 10 percent
of the funding required for the rehabilitation of the City center could be made available from the federal
and City budgets, a task was set within the St. Petersburg City Center Rehabilitation Project to develop
an action programn that would make it possible in conditions of budget deficits to initiate the process of
rehabilitation and preservation of the historic center through the expansion of private investment. The
Concept Note defined the structure of disbursements of loan proceeds as well as phasing of the project.
In the first phase (September 1998 - April 1999), using the grant funds made available under the Loan
by the RF Govemment to the St. Petersburg Administration, the City prepared the Investment Strategy
for the Rehabilitation of the Center of St. Petersburg, identifying a set of measures and a program of
actions by the City Government to establish a favorable environment for the inflow of private
investments into the rehabilitation and construction of real estate. Concurrently, design studies and
bidding documents were prepared for pilot projects. The purpose of the Pilot Projects was to help the
City government gain the experience of initiating site-specific rehabilitation operations through
attracting private sector investments. On the initiative of the RF Government, the Cultural Fund
-38-



Program was incorporated as part of the Loan. This Program enabled leading cultural institutions in St.
Petersburg to implement small-scale investment operations aimed at diversifying cultural life in the City
and thus acquire the experience of implementing commercial projects in culture and education. In the
first stage, sub-projects were selected to be financed from grants.
In the second phase (May 1999 - April 2002), the City carried out a set of priority measures
specified in the Investment Strategy for the Rehabilitation of the Center of St. Petersburg and
aimed at establishing a favorable climate for the expansion of private investment. The following pilot
projects were implemented concurrently: Creation of the Pedestrian Walkway and Rehabilitation of
Engineering Infrastructure in Block 130, Rehabilitation and Renovation of Kapella Courtyards, Street
Lighting and Improvements in Nevsky Prospect, as well as nine sub-projects in culture and education.
The second phase also supported the required amount of preparatory work for the St. Petersburg
Economic Development Project proposed to be implemented during 2003-2006. In the course of
tripartite negotiations, the parties defined the form, structure, and the design concept of the follow-up
operation. Sub-projects were selected for the rehabilitation of historic and architectural monuments of
federal significance located in the historic center of St. Petersburg and its vicinity, and design studies
were prepared for the selected sub-projects. A program of policy and institutional reforns was
developed, planned to be carried out during the life of the follow-up project.
2. Main project outcomes
2.1. Development and implementation of Investment Strategy for the Rehabilitation of the Center
of St. Petersburg
In conditions of inadequate budget financing, St. Petersburg urgently needed a strategy for attracting
additional sources of funding to support the rehabilitation and renovation of its historic center. In this
context, the City Administration and the RF Government initiated the formulation of a strategy of City's
actions aimed at creating a favorable enviromnent for the expansion of private investment and growth of
business activities in the historic center.
Based on the review of the physical condition of assets in the City center and the analysis of trends in
the social and economic development of the City, the Investment Strategy identified four key areas to be
addressed by the City in improving the investment climate and boosting private investment in real estate
rehabilitation and construction, including:
-   Economic Growth Strategy, envisaging the establishment of as favorable conditions as possible
for accommodating business in the City center, thus creating a steady demand for real estate in the
center;
-   Investment Climate Improvement Strategy, providing for the creation of favorable conditions
for private investment in real estate rehabilitation and development and the reduction of transaction
costs and risks to private investors;
-   Capital Investment Efficiency Strategy, envisaging the introduction of more efficient methods
and procedures for forning City's capital investment programs; and
-   Urban Planning Strategy, providing for the development of engineering and transport
infrastructure and establishment of conditions for implementing private investment operations in priority
areas of urban development.
Development of the Investment Strategy was a joint effort by the City Government, business, academic
and cultural communities, and Russian and foreign experts. Approaches to formulating the Strategy
were defined at a City Conference in September 1998. In the following six months, three consecutive
- 39 -



versions of the document were prepared, incorporating comments and proposals that came in. To
coordinate the process, special task forces were set up comprising representatives from relevant
Administration committees and experts in the following areas: social and economic development of the
City center and investment policy; legal, institutional and informational environments for the
rehabilitation process; urban planning and investment projects. The document was discussed at
workshops and round tables and also via mass media. Stakeholder organizations and the general public
had access to its working version via the Intemet. The discussion involved the participation of over
1,000 specialists and experts in various areas of urban activities. In April 1999, the Investment Strategy
for the Rehabilitation of the Center of St. Petersburg was approved and adopted for implementation at a
City conference. Printed and electronic versions of the Strategy document in Russian and in English
were released in summer 1999.
The Investment Strategy for the Rehabilitation of the Center of St. Petersburg is a program of
City actions aimed at creating favorable conditions for the expansion of private investment in the
rehabilitation and refurbishment of real estate in the historic city center.
The following areas in the Investment Strategy were identified as priorities to be supported under the
St. Petersburg City Center Rehabilitation Project:
Measures to enhance the efficiency of City's expenditures for investment purposes were defined as a
priority within the Investment Strategy. As part of the St. Petersburg City Center Rehabilitation Project,
the City developed and approved the Guidelines for preparation, appraisal, and selection of projects for
City's capital investment programs. The Guidelines, which rely on the established intemational practice
of appraising investment operations, propose a methodology for selecting projects based on quantitative
and qualitative parameters of expected social, revenue, and economic outcomes from their
implementation. The Guidelines have introduced uniform formats of proposals requesting for finance
and of surety ships and made it possible to coordinate activities of various Administration committees
involved in the formation of City's investment programs. Special attention was paid to the quality of
preparatory work and design studies as well as to the effectiveness of project implementation
monitoring.
Among priority measures in improving the investment climate and establishing as favorable conditions
as possible for boosting investment in real estate in the City center are measures to reduce transaction
costs to investors in the process of implementing real estate development operations. The St. Petersburg
City Center Rehabilitation Project supported the preparation of the Program of Priority Actions in
Improving Regulatory, Legal, and Institutional Frameworks for Real Estate Investments. The Program
is aimed at enhancing the regulatory and legal foundation for urban planning activities and land and
property relations.
Listed below are draft laws and subordinate acts that have already passed expert examination and are
now at various stages of approval and adoption.
1. Draft Law on Introducing Changes in and Additions to the Law on Investments in Real Estate in
St. Petersburg
2. Draft Law on Regulation of Urban Planning Activities in St. Petersburg
3. Draft Guidelines for Developing Regulations of Land Use and Development (Regulations of Land
Use and Development in St. Petersburg)
4. Draft Regulations on Applying Real Estate Development Regulations in St. Petersburg (General
Part of Regulations of Land Use and Development in St. Petersburg)
-40 -



5.  Draft Govemor's Decree on St. Petersburg City Commission for Land Use and Development
6.  Draft Govemor's Decree on Allowing Mortgaging Leasehold Interest in Land Plots Allocated on
Investment Conditions
7. Draft Regulations on Reserving Land for Public and Municipal Needs (first version)
8. Draft Regulations on the Procedures for Designing Land Demarcation Projects (first version)
9.  Package of standard documents on land use, lease, and development
10. Draft Law on Developers' Shareholding in Inprovement of Primary Infrastructure Facilities (first
version)
11. Draft Regulations on the Prime Developer and Comprehensive Improvement of Areas
This list was approved by Govemor's Resolution No. 3 of April 13, 2001 and St. Petersburg
Government Resolution No. 13 of March 29, 2001 "On Main Areas in Improving the Regulatory and
Legal Framework for Real Estate Development in 2001."
St. Petersburg Govemment Resolution No. 13 of March 29, 2001 created a working group responsible
for finalization and adoption of the above-listed documents. The working group is headed by A. I.
Vakhmistrov and includes representatives from relevant Administration committees, members of the
City Legislative Assembly, heads of construction, scientific and public organizations, as well as experts.
Priority measures in improving the investment climate and attracting private investments also include
measures on providing information support to investment and construction activities. To ensure that
potential investors have access to official information on the condition of real estate in the historic
center, effective legislation, and other data required at the stage of making investment decisions, a pilot
version of the Geographical Information and Analytical System (TIAS) - Development of the
Historic Center of St. Petersburg: Investment Opportunities - was made available in the Intemet in
July 1999 (see http://spbcentre.ru). The process of building of the system and development of its content
refined the data updating mechanism and arrangements for contributing information to TIAS by City
Administration committees and relevant organizations while the scope of provided data was expanded.
Between July 1999 and October 2000, several TIAS versions were prepared and made available in the
Intemet, and in each of these versions the information on the condition of real estate in the center was
not only updated, but also substantially expanded.
In order to disseminate information on investment opportunities in St. Petersburg and intensify
investment processes, a Govemor's Decree was issued in October 2000 (No. 1071, On Creating a
Unified Geo-Information System for Development of Real Estate in St. Petersburg (EIST)). TIAS was
incorporated as part of EIST. In February 2001, a pilot EIST version was made available at the official
website (http:H/statedevelopment.spb.ru).
During 2001, five EIST versions were prepared and made available in the Intemet. Currently the
interactive St. Petersburg map provides information on 300,000 sites and presents 10,000 photographs
along with the regulatory documents and other basic information related to the City's area and ongoing
investment processes. To make EIST more user-friendly, data classification system has been improved:
39 data layers are now united into 3 groups and 9 sub-groups.
The work on TIAS and EIST systems led to the creation of a data and software/hardware complex,
connecting all data providers into a unified information network with capabilities of remote data update
and adjustment. This unified information network connects 10 Administration committees, 19 district
offices, and organizations dealing with investment matters. The developed software-and-hardware
complex makes it possible to move to a mechanism of continuous data updating.
-41 -



To increase the number of EIST users, efforts were made on regular basis to market the new system by
releasing CD-ROMs, brochures, and advertising spots. EIST was presented at international, national,
and city conferences, seminars and round table discussions on investment issues. A series of training
sessions were organized for specialists of construction, development, and realtor firms. EIST has been
included in the official St. Petersburg exposition at international congresses and conferences. Currently
over 100 accesses by Internet users to EIST data are registered on daily basis.
In order to facilitate for potential investors access to information on existing procedures in the real
estate sector, the Project supported the preparation and release of the St. Petersburg Developer
Handbook, both in Russian and in English. This publication, intended for investors and real-estate
developers, contains comprehensive information on how the investor should proceed at each stage in
implementing a construction project. Full Russian and English versions of the Handbook have been
made available in the Internet.
2.2. Preparation and implementation of pilot projects
The list of pilot projects approved for financing from Loan proceeds was agreed between the RF
Government, the World Bank, and the City in 1998.
2.2.1. Creation of the pedestrian walkway and rehabilitation of engineering infrastructure in Block
130
Following the urban planning concept, the pilot project included a comprehensive rehabilitation of the
on-site heating system, engineering development of the area, creation and improvements of a new
pedestrian zone, preparation of land plots for new construction.
The contract for supply of new heating plants for the upgrading of the heating system in the Block was
awarded in the international competitive bidding to the Finnish firm KPA UNICON OY in December
1998. The winning bidder in the tender for construction works in Block 130 was the Russian firm
AOZT Spetsstroy, with the award made in April 1999.
As part of the pilot project, two new gas-fired heating plants with an aggregate capacity of 13.5 Gcal/h
were delivered and made operational, on-site and off-site engineering communications and heating
networks were fully upgraded, comprehensive improvements were carried out in the Block area,
including removal of contaminated soil and landscape treatments, and a pedestrian walkway was
created. In autumn 2000, works on this pilot were completed and accepted by the state acceptance
board.
The pilot project supported works on preparation of four land plots for new construction, including
stripping them of low-valued structures, resettlement of tenants from the dilapidated apartment house,
and relocation of the kindergarten located in the area of future lots. After completion of the construction
works, in February 2001 the St. Petersburg Property Fund put up for investment auction the right of
development of four land plots in Block 130, totaling 25,000 sq. m. The preparation of the sites for new
construction and the development of investment and bidding documents and urban planning regulations
were carried out as part of the pilot project.
The winning bidders in the investment auction for the right of development of land plots in Block 130
were the St. Petersburg firm TST and Moscow firms 000 Galis-terminal and 000 Top-metal.
-42 -



2.2.2. Rehabilitation and Restoration of Kapelia Courtyards
Following the urban planning concept, the project provided for a package of rehabilitation and
improvement works in the area adjacent to Glinka Academic Kapella, creation of a pedestrian zone, and
restoration of the Tsar's Pavilion destroyed during the Great Patriotic War. In 1999, a decision was
made to include in the pilot project the reconstruction of the interior of the Tsar's Pavilion at the Glinka
Kapella, using loan funds saved in the course of the project tenders.
The contract for project works was awarded in the intemational competitive bidding to the Russian firm
000 Sberbankstroy in May 1999. The contract for restoration of the Tsar's Pavilion was awarded in
the tender to the consortium of Russian finms ZAO Restavrator- Petersburg and OAO Peterburgstroy in
July 2000.
The pilot project included resettlement of affected tenants from first floor apartments in the
communicating courtyards, refurbishment of engineering communications, facade repairs and
renovation in the Kapella Courtyards Complex, and repairs and renovation of the concert hall facade
along with the reconstruction of the Tsar's Pavilion. The project also supported comprehensive
improvements of the Kapella area, including paving, installment of a new street lighting system in the
pedestrian zone, installation of the decorative facade lighting for the Kapella building, and construction
of a covered arcade in a courtyard adjacent to Bolshaya Konyushennaya Street.
In September 2000 after the signing of the acceptance report, an official inauguration of the new
pedestrian zone in the Kapella Courtyards complex took place.
Initially, the feasibility study provided that capital investments in the rehabilitation works would be
returned as income from leasing first floor space, vacated as a result of resettlement, to the private
sector on competitive basis. In the course of the project, however, the concept of the subsequent use of
residential buildings that make part of the unified Glinka Kapella complex and are owned by the federal
govenmment was revised. The Kapella building, which is a historic monument under the federal
responsibility, was legally decoupled from Kapella complex residential buildings, which are not part of
the historic patrimony. Thus, it has become possible to carry out a program of restructuring of the
Kapella real estate complex and attract private investment in the rehabilitation of residential buildings in
the complex.
2.2.3.     Street Lighting and Improvements in Nevsky Prospect
The first phase of the pilot project included installation of an Automated Traffic Control System,
installation of a new street lighting system, refurbishment of engineering systems, and repaving of
sidewalks and improvements in Nevsky Prospect in the section from Admiralteisky Prospect to Moika
Embankment. In late 1999, the City decided to expand the scope of the pilot project using savings
realized in the course of international tenders for contract works. In the second phase of the pilot, the
section of sidewalk repaving and refurbishment of engineering systems in Nevsky Prospect was
extended to Fontanka Embankment.
The winning bidder in the international tender for the contract for installation of the Automated Traffic
Control System was the German firm Siemens. In June 1999, the Russian consortium Sberbankstroy -
AOOT GRST-1 won the contract for improvement works in the section from Admiralteisky Prospect to
Moika Embankment. The winning bidder in the tender for improvement works in the section from
Moika Embankment to Fontanka Embankment was the Russian firm ZAO Vozrozhdenie, with the
-43 -



award made in July 2000.
As part of the pilot project, engineering systems and paving were replaced in the section from
Admiralteisky Prospect to Moika Embankment, a new street lighting system was installed along the
length of Nevsky Prospect (156 obsolete streetlights were replaced with 196 modern lamps), and the
Automated Traffic Control System was put in place throughout the length of Nevsky and Staro-Nevsky
prospects.
In keeping with the Concept Note, the preparation and implementation of site-specific rehabilitation
operations in the historic city center are intended to help the City Administration gain more experience
of working with private investors in the real estate sector as well as to improve the appearance of the
city.
At the preparation stage, design studies and bidding documents for the pilot projects were prepared in
compliance with international standards. The environmental impact assessment was carried out, with
positive opinions issued for all the projects. Public hearings were held during the preparation process,
involving the participation of representatives from municipal entities, city residents, organizations and
finms located in immediate proximity to the rehabilitation sites. Urban planning concepts for the projects
were submitted and received positive response from architects, builders, and experts.
The preparation and holding of international tenders for selection of prime contractors helped Russian
construction firms acquire the needed experience of participation in international projects. In order to
encourage Russian firms to participate in the bidding, the City organized a series of training sessions to
explain how bids should be prepared in line with international standards. These efforts had the result
that in 1999-2000 all winning bidders in the tenders for pilot project contracts were Russian
construction firms, while in 1998 domestic companies did not even participate in the bidding.
A portion of funds originally allocated for tenders was saved. On the initiative of the City, these savings
were used to expand the scope of works in the projects 'Rehabilitation and Restoration of Kapella
Courtyards' and 'Rehabilitation of Nevsky Prospect'.
Public awareness efforts continued at all stages of preparing and implementing the pilots. To keep city
residents informed of forthcoming works, posters describing the projects were put up at bus stops, and
reports were regularly carried in media. A hotline was set up for residents of Block 130 and Kapella
Courtyards, information leaflets were distributed with mail, etc. City Administration and project
leaders made presentations and reports at intemational, national, and city conferences and seminars
dedicated to real estate investment issues, brochures and other information materials on pilot projects
were distributed.
By implementing the Block 130 project, the City created a model approach to urban site development, in
which works on refurbishment of engineering infrastructure and preparation of land plots for new
construction were financed from borrowed resources. As a result, in February 2001 the City for the first
time put up for investment auction sites in the city center with the upgraded utility infrastructure and
developed urban planning regulations.
The Kapella Courtyards pilot project allowed the City to carry out a comprehensive rehabilitation
operation in the historic city center and also develop a mechanism of working with the state-protected
real estate that is under the responsibility of the federal government.
- 44 -



Comprehensive improvements in Nevsky Prospect improved the appearance of the main city route,
made it safer and more comfortable for pedestrians and motorists, and also made Nevsky and adjacent
streets more attractive to investors. Establishment of a favorable climate for business and tourism
development in the historic center will boost economic activity in the City and thus increase tax
revenues to the City budget.
2.2.4. Cultural Fund Pilot Projects
The Cultural Fund Program was incorporated in the St. Petersburg City Center Rehabilitation Project in
1998 on the initiative of the RF Government. The future of the historic center directly depends on how
cultural institutions located in it develop. This is why the structure of the Project was supplemented with
cultural sub-projects aimed at promoting development of St. Petersburg museums, libraries, and
theatres by increasing their income from extra-budgetary sources and enhancing the financial
management and administrative procedures at cultural institutions.
The RF Government made a total of US$1 million in the form of a targeted grant available to St.
Petersburg cultural institutions included in the List of particularly valuable assets of cultural and
historic heritage of peoples of Russia. For the purpose of implementing this component of the Project,
the Cultural Fund was established in 1998.
Twelve cultural institutions from the said List were invited to apply for grants. Decisions on providing
funding for projects were made by the Inter-Ministerial Grant Approval Committee, specially set up for
this purpose, comprising representatives from the RF Government and the City Administration.
Decisions were made on the basis of project appraisals carried out by Russian and foreign experts in
culture, marketing, and finance.
Eighteen applications were submitted in competitions held under the Cultural Fund Program. Based on
the results of these competitions, a total of nine grants were awarded for implementation of the
following projects:
* State Hermitage Museum. Publication of an illustrated guide to the Hermitage Museum. Grant
amount - US$200,000
* Institute of Russian Literature (Pushkin House). Publication of 'Pushkin Library' book series.
Grant amount - US$136,000
* Peter the Great Museum of Anthropology and Ethnography (Kunstkammer). Setting up a
workshop and a souvenir store at the Kunstkammer. Grant amount - US$135,507
* State Russian Museum. Production of a series of educational video films 'From the Russian
Museum - to Children'. Grant amount - US$60,000
*   State Academic Mariinsky Theatre. Setting up a multimedia studio at the Mariinsky Theatre.
Grant amount - US$158,200
*   Rimsky-Korsakov St. Petersburg Conservatoire. Rehabilitation and commercial uses of
Glazunov Concert Hall. Grant amount - US$170,000
*   Russian State Historical Archives. Creation of a scientific and educational center for specialized
-45 -



scientific tourism at the Russian State Historical Archives. Grant amount - US$58,460
*   Russian Museum of Ethnography. Expansion of the children's center of ethnography at the
Russian Museum of Ethnography. Grant amount - US$60,110
*   National Russian Library. Establishment of an information service center with a book lounge.
Grant amount - US$70,000
These projects were implemented between 1999 and 2001 in close coordination with specialists from the
Cultural Fund. To date, works on all projects have been completed.
The Cultural Fund Program was the first experience of implementing cultural projects in the frame of
cooperation between the RF Government and the World Bank. While preparing and implementing their
projects, cultural institutions gained the experience of cooperating with international organizations and
got trained in methods of developing business proposals in culture and education. In selecting projects,
developing feasibility studies for future projects, and completing applications for grants, specialists of
cultural institutions worked in collaboration with Russian and western experts. The Cultural Fund
Program benefited from the participation of the Open Society Institute (Soros Fund), Eurasia
Foundation, CEC International Partnership, the Foundation for Mutual Understanding, and other
organizations. All international experts involved in the projects provided assistance on voluntary basis.
Implementation of pilot projects through the Cultural Fund allowed cultural institutions to gain
experience with small-scale investment operations, diversify cultural life in the City, and attract more
visitors to museums, theatres and libraries in St. Petersburg.
3. Preparation of St. Petersburg Economic Development Project (2003-2006)
The Concept Note indicates that the St. Petersburg City Center Rehabilitation Project was seen by the
RF Government, World Bank, and the City as a preparatory undertaking in their cooperation, which has
the goal of implementing economic policy reforms and making the historic city center more attractive to
investors.
As part of this Project, the objectives and the design concept have been identified for the follow-up St.
Petersburg Economic Development Project, which is proposed to be implemented during 2003-2006.
The St. Petersburg Economic Development Project will support the City in implementing its program of
economic policy and legislative reforms. A set of priority measures have been defined aimed at
improving the system of management of the city's financial resources, real estate, and public assets,
removing obstacles that constrain private investment in the economic development, carrying out
regulatory, legal, and institutional reforms in order to improve business climate and competitive
environment, as well as creating a favorable environment for urban and real estate development. The
goal of the project is to assist the City in attaining its strategic objectives laid down in the Strategic Plan
for St. Petersburg and the Investment Strategy for the Rehabilitation of the Center of St. Petersburg.
In 2000-2001, the RF Government, City Administration, and the World Bank completed the first stage
of negotiations, and a World Bank preparatory mission for the St. Petersburg Economic Development
Project was carried out. A loan in the amount of US$150 million will be extended for a period of 17
years and will be backed by the RF Government.
-46 -



The St. Petersburg Economic Development Loan has been structured to include two inter-related
components:
Component I (City component). According to the design concept, US$100 million in loan funds will
be made available to the City as the end borrower.
These resources will be provided in the form of an adjustment loan and, as agreed on preliminary
basis, will be released to the City in two trenches: US$40 million at the beginning of 2003, based on
the progress in implementing the defined activities in 2002, and US$60 million at the beginning of
2004, based on the progress in carrying out the reforms in 2003. Loan proceeds will be used to
finance projects included in the City's Capital Investment Program for 2003-2006.
The Governor's Decree 'On Arrangements for Preparation of a New Loan from the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development' (No. 237-p dated February 23, 2001) established a
working group for coordination of preparatory work for the 2003-2006 project.
To date, the City has developed a package of documents defining the key areas of the Program of
economic policy and institutional reforms for 2002-2005, with the package approved by the RF
Government and the World Bank.
Component II ('Federal Component'). According to the design concept, US$50 million in loan
resources will be made available to the Government of the Russian Federation as the end
borrower.
These resources, which will be provided in the form of an investment loan, will be used to finance
rehabilitation works for cultural institutions located in the historic center of St. Petersburg and its
vicinity that are owned by the Federal Government.
The preparation and oversight of the 'Federal Component' of the project are the responsibility of the
RF Ministry of Culture and the RF State Committee for Construction and Housing Sector
(Gosstroy).
According the requirements set by the World Bank to investment loans, design studies and bidding
documents for projects financed from loan resources must be prepared and approved prior to the
signing of the loan agreement. To facilitate preparation of the 'Federal Component', the Federal
Projects Directorate has been established within the PIU for the St. Petersburg City Center
Rehabilitation Project.
In early 2001, a set of works were carried out to review the condition and development prospects of
federal monuments located in the historic center of St. Petersburg and its vicinity that are on the List of
particularly valuable monuments of the cultural heritage of the peoples of Russia. Initially, 24 assets
were selected. In May 2001, the RF Government and the World Bank approved the Principles of
forming the 'Federal Component' in the lending program for the rehabilitation of the historic center of
St. Petersburg. This document has laid out the key requirements to the selection of projects to be
financed from loan funds. In addition to contributing to the improved protection of architectural assets
against physical deterioration, future projects should enhance the efficiency of their exploitation and
improve working conditions for staff of cultural institutions. Also, project implementation periods
should not exceed the duration of the lending program.
-47 -



In keeping with these requirements and with the aim of ensuring more efficient use of borrowed funds,
the Ministry of Culture and RF Gosstroy have approved eight projects that are proposed to be financed
under the 'Federal Component' and co-financed from the federal budget.
These include:
*   State Academic Mariinsky Theatre. Comprehensive rehabilitation and restoration works in the
Mariinsky Theatre building, including improvement of the stage environment, rehabilitation and
upgrading of intemal utility systems, rehabilitation of the Small Hall space and the orchestra pit.
* State Hermitage Museum. Engineering support to the eastern wing complex of the General Staff
buildings and priority restoration works for buildings forming the Palace Square ensemble.
* 'St. Peter and Paul Fortress' Historical and Cultural Park - State Museum of History of St.
Petersburg. A complex of works on rehabilitation of engineering facilities and outside lighting and
improvements of the area.
*   State Museum Tzarskoye Selo Palace and Park. Rehabilitation and restoration of the Hermitage
Kitchen Pavilion, restoration and reconstruction works in the Hernitage Grove and the Fishing
Canal, repairs and restoration of the Turkish Bath.
*   State Russian Museum. Repairs and restoration of St. George Room and Mikhail Palace
Courtyards, repairs and restoration works in the Marble Palace.
*   Shostakovich State Philharmonic Hail. Retrofitting of the Grand Hall, including installation of an
air-conditioning system, rehabilitation of the lighting system, replacement of acoustic equipment,
refurbishment of engineering systems, and restoration works.
*   Rimsky-Korsakov State Conservatoire. Comprehensive repairs and restoration of buildings of
the old English Church (56, Angliiskaya Naberezhnaya)
* State Museum Pavlovsk Palace and Park. Comprehensive repairs and restoration works in the
'Temple of Friendship' and improvements in the adjacent area.
As proposed by the RF Ministry of Culture and RF Gosstroy, the projects of the rehabilitation of
Mariinsky Theatre and State Hernitage Museum have been defined as priority.
According to the general schedule of preparation of the St. Petersburg Economic Development Project,
the parties should be able to sign a loan agreement in November 2002.
4. IMPLEMENTATION PROBLEMS OF THE ST. PETERSBURG CENTER CITY
REHABILITATION PROJECT
4.1 Pilot Projects
In accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines "Standard Prequalification Documents.
Procurement of Works" of September 1999, bidder prequalification is mandatory under procurement
contracts above $10 million.
-48-



In compliance with Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, International Competitive Bidding for the
procurement of goods and works worth of at least $1 million should be preceded by bidder
prequalification. Prequalification threshold of $1 million under Loan No. 4144-RU was too low,
resulting in considerably longer bidding procedures and contractor selection. Thus, due to the need for
prequalification to procure works with estimated cost of $2 million under the Nevsky Prospect
Reconstruction pilot project, the beginning of works planned for summer 1999 was rescheduled for
winter 1999-2000 resulting in increased cost of the works.
Pilot project implementation faced with problems associated with getting various permits and
agreements and work acceptance procedures, which are too complicated and require referrals to
numerous municipal services and costs related to obtaining permits. The above costs were not
envisaged beforehand, and could not be paid from the Loan entailing the need to make amendments to
the municipal budget.
The Bank requirement to sign contracts in local currency (rubles) and make price adjustments in
accordance with the agreed indicators was not supported by projections of construction price increase
related to exchange rate changes. This resulted in contract price increase that could have been avoided
if contracts were made in dollar equivalent.
Implementation arrangements for projects under the Culture Support Fund were not sufficiently
detailed. The National Foundation for Housing Reform (Moscow) was initially designated as the PIU
under this component, which subsequently delayed the implementation and first year disbursements.
Attraction of funds from various sources for projects under the Culture Support Fund sometimes
resulted in delayed payments, complicated accounting procedures and longer implementation period.
4.1 Established Cost Sharing Arrangements
In accordance with Schedule I to the Loan Agreement, the Bank finances 80% of local costs of locally
procured goods (excluding goods procured on ex-factory basis), as well as 80% of all works.
Accordingly, the City's share in financing the above costs equals 20%.
Given these cost sharing arrangements, payment of invoices faces a problem related to the accounting of
costs and funding. Only 96% of the costs of works or goods less VAT are paid from the Bank's Special
Account. The remaining 4% are included in the budget expenditures and paid, together with the VAT,
from the Project Budget Account. Such cost sharing arrangements when invoices (less VAT) are paid
from various sources are extremely difficult in terms of correct and timely cost accounting in
accordance with the established accounting and financial practices.
It is worth noting that in respect of services and foreign costs of goods, as well as local costs of goods
procured on ex-factory basis, the Bank share equals 83.33% and the City's share - 16.67%. This
allows issuing payment orders from the Special Account for the exact amount of services provided or
goods procured (less VAT), and those from the Budget Account - for the exact amount of VAT.
Establishing the same cost-sharing ratio for goods (excluding the ones procured on ex-factory basis) and
works would enable cost accounting under these categories in compliance with the accounting practice.
4.3 Organizational Arrangements For the Work of Bank Missions
-49 -



To ensure more efficient organization of Bank missions to Saint Petersburg, the Bank should inform the
Saint-Petersburg City Administration and PIU at least 2 weeks ahead of the mission indicating the
objectives of meetings with each of the concerned persons. This helps to agree the work schedule with
the officials well in advance, and achieve better results during the mission.
5.  VIEWS OF SAINT-PETERSBURG CITY ADMIISTRATION ON THE PROJECT
Saint-Petersburg City Administration has a favorable view of the four-year cooperation with the World
Bank under the St. Petersburg Center City Reconstruction Project. The Project tested the ways to
substantially improve the condition of the historical city area, and encourage investment activities using
loan funds from international institutions. The City Administration views the cooperation with the Bank
as an international recognition of the unique nature, cultural and investment potential and significance of
Saint Petersburg.
The example of Saint Petersburg, as an individual subject of the Russian Federation, provided the
required experience in using loan funds as a catalyst to promote mass-scale real estate reconstruction
involving private investments. The experience might be further used while implementing similar
programs and projects in other Russian cities. Therefore, the St. Petersburg Center City Reconstruction
Project can be viewed as a pilot project for the whole Russia.
Successful implementation of the St. Petersburg Center City Reconstruction Project has become a
criterion for further cooperation with the Bank to obtain a follow-up loan for the St. Petersburg
Economic Development Project. The City is highly interested in the implementation of the above
Project, and is actively engaged in loan preparation. Cooperation with the Bank is highly important for
Saint Petersburg not only because the Bank is providing relatively cheap and long-term loan funds. Of
greater importance are the innovative ideas and mechanisms evolving as a result of joint work. The
City Administration hopes that the new project to be implemented with the support of Bank loan
financing would allow the City both to fully implement the medium-term investment program, and
create the best in Russia environment for private investment. This would help address the large-scale
reconstruction and modernization problems facing the City, and ensure sustainable economic growth.
- 50 -



LO



