Document of
THE WORLD BANK
REPORT No. T-6998 RU
TECHNICAL ANNEX
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ST. PETERSBURG CENTER CITY REHABILITATION PROJECT
February 27, 1997



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 10, 1996)
Currency Unit      =   Ruble
US$1.00            =   Rb 5,371
December 1993      =   1,247
December 1994      =  3,550
December 1995      =  4,640
September 1996     =   5,366
December 1996      =  5,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EBRD        -          European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU TACIS   -           Official name of the technical assistance program of the
European Union to the New Independent States
IBRD        -          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         -          International Competitive Bidding
IDA         -          International Development Association
IS          -          International Shopping
KUGI        -          St. Petersburg Property Committee
LCB         -          Local Competitive Bidding
LS          -          Local Shopping
NCB         -          National Competitive Bidding
NBF         -          Not Bank Financed
NS          -          National Shopping
PIU         -          Project Implementation Unit
PRU         -          Project Review Unit
SOE         -          Statement of Expenditures
TC          -          Technical cooperation
TOR         -          Terms of Reference
UNESCO    -            United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
USAID       -          United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
Vice President:            Johannes F Linn, ECA
Director:                  Yukon Huang, EC3
Division Chief             Jonathan C Brown, EC31V
Task Manager:              Adrienne K  Nassau, EC3IV



St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project
Technical Annex
Contents
Page No.
Chapter
I     Introduction .................                     ;.1
2 The Project                                .3
Project Concept                         .3
Project Objectives                       .3
Project Components                        .3
Technical Cooperation                      .4
Pilot Investment Schemes                     .8
3     Institutional Setting, Regulation and Implementation .15
Structure of St. Petersburg Government .15
Finances of St. Petersburg Goverment .15
Regulation .16
Implementation .18
4     Project Costs, Financing, Procurement and Disbursement .25
Costs .25
Basis of Cost Estimates .26
Financing .28
Procurement .30
Disbursements .33
5     Sustainability, Benefits and Risks .37
6   Agreements and Recommendations .47



Annex
1         St. Petersburg History and Economy ....................................                                       49
2          Sector Context - Housing and Infrastructure .....................                            ............... 55
3          Real Estate City Strategy and Description of Market .................................... 63
4          The Federally Targeted Program for Historic
Center Development and Preservation  ............                               .................... 67
5         Financial Position of the City of St. Petersburg ................................                              69
6          Terms of Reference for General Consultant .............                                ................... 77
7          Strategic Planning Terms of Reference ................................ 91
8         Pilot Projects, Economic Rate of Return ................................ 97
9          Principles of Tenant Relocation .................................                                             99
10        Regulatory Policies and Plans ................................                                               103
11        Progress on Regulatory Action Program   1996 ....................                              ............ 107
12        City Planning Issues .................................                                                       119
13    Social Assessment ................................                                                               141
14        Environmental Assessment .................................                                                   157
15        List of Documents Available in Project Files .................                             ............... 161
16    Schedules
A Master Time Schedule .165
B Indicative Supervision Plan .167



ST. PETERSBURG CENTER CITY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Renovation, rehabilitation and reanimation of the historic center is key to the
development of St. Petersburg as a whole. Although there are many beautiful buildings
and established infrastructure that could form a vibrant city, a number of factors are
inhibiting development. The major barriers to development include:
(a)   Poor and even dangerous, infrastructure
(b)   Complicated administrative processing procedures
(c)   Inadequate incentive framework for the private sector
(d)   The difficulty of vacating existing buildings so they can be reconstructed
(e)   The high costs of renovation
(f)   Insufficient information available for developers and the public
1.2   While addressing any one of these barriers will lead to some improvement in the
development climate, the city needs to have a coordinated approach to all of them in
order to realize its potential.
1.3   At the moment, however, the city does not have a realistic strategy that will help it
achieve its goals. The federal government and the city have finalized a major federal/ City
program entitled the Federally Targeted Program for Preservation and Renovation of the
Historic Areas of St. Petersburg (FTP). However, the program cannot be implemented
due to a lack of priorities, detailed plans and funds.
1.4   The city recognizes that a strategy is needed that relies heavily on the initiatives of
the emerging private sector. They have started work on formulating a strategic plan. The
project will help the city finalize the strategic plan and launch its implementation.



2
1.5    This project should be considered the first in a series of projects that could be
supported in the future by the Bank, other donors, and the private sector. The project will
provide assistance to the city in: (i) finalizing the strategic plan; (ii) developing the
institutions and regulations that will be required to carry out the plan; (iii) carrying out
detailed plans, designs anc. engineering for a future investment project that the Bank or
other institutions could support; and (iv) implementing pilot schemes to test new
approaches, including a pilot cultural fund.



St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project
Technical Annex
2. THE PROJECT
PROJECT CONCEPT
2.1   The project is designed to increase the capacity to carry out a larger program of
center city rehabilitation. The project will support a process of reform, restructuring, and
investment in St. Petersburg. The process will include strategic planning, designing,
engineering, promoting, regulating, building capacity, piloting, and learning from
experience. The lessons learned will modify the plan and initiate a larger effort in the
future.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.2   The goal of the project is to support preparation of a realistic St. Petersburg
Center City Rehabilitation Program. Specific objectives are to: (a) further develop and
agree with the city and Federal authorities on a strategic plan and a city investment
program for center city rehabilitation; (b) continue regulatory reform to assure
competitive real estate markets and a competitive business environment in the center city;
(c) initiate a program of public information and participation in the decision making
process for city development and investment; (d) carry out some visible physical
improvements that can be replicated on a larger scale in the future, and (e) assist cultural
organizations in the city to improve their ability to generate non-budget revenue.
PROJECT COMPONENTS
2.3   Summary. The project would provide a comprehensive package of studies,
designs, regulatory reform, capacity building and pilots to permit implementation of the
investment program. Specific components include:
(a)   Technical Cooperation will assist the city in planning and managing the
initiation of a major program of center city rehabilitation. The Technical
Cooperation component has two subcomponents: (a) planning,
Monitoring indicators are listed in Chapter 3, Institutional Setting, Regulation and Implementation.



4
administration and engineering, and (b) institution building and regulatory
reform.2
(b)   Pilot Schemes to experiment with and demonstrate new mechanisms for
providing traditional services or new or improved services. Specific plans
include pilot schemes that will provide some physical improvements (e.g.,
sidewalks, street lighting, landscaping, signage) for the whole of Nevsky
Prospekt (the main commercial street in St. Petersburg), and more
concentrated improvements in smaller areas adjacent to and near Nevsky
that demonstrate high potential for commercial development. These
improvements would include infrastructure, streetscape, and social
assistance. The improvements would be combined with the market-based
sale of vacant buildings and land; creation of new privately owned or
leased commercial space, new ways of operating facilities; and increased
charges to commercial users and residents for services. In addition, pilot
schemes would try to use the resources already available through the
ongoing Housing (RU 3850) and Energy Efficiency (RU 3876) Projects to
provide incentives for rehabilitation of existing apartments and to increase
energy efficiency.
TECHNICAL COOPERATION
2.4    Administration, Planning and Engineering. Three subcomponents are
included in administration, planning and engineering: (a) Support for the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU); (b) research and analysis by the Leontieff Center; and (c)
work performed by a General Consultant.
2.5   Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The project will be coordinated,
implemented and supervised by the PIU, a foundation established by the city for this
purpose. The city will contract with the PIU to provide essential administrative services.
The PIU will serve as the intermediary level between the city government and the
General Consultant. The PIU has a small staff, as most of the day-to-day work on the
project will be handled by the General Consultant. Because the current project is designed
to be the first step in a much larger St. Petersburg program, the city should eventually
establish a major foundation with responsibility for center city rehabilitation including
implementation of the FTP. Such a foundation should have representation by major
stakeholders on the board. Since establishing such a foundation will require time, an
interim Foundation has been designated by the city to implement the project until the
larger Foundation can be established.
2 In addition, donor finance would be used to carry out complementary technical assistance, including (i)
development of a strategic plan for the whole of St. Petersburg ; (ii) recommendations for improving the
process for issuing development permits; (iii) cadastre work; (iv) analysis of center city utility
requirements; and (v) municipal finance work.



5
2.6   Data and Analysis (Leontieff Center). Research and analysis for the project will
be provided by the International Center for Social and Economic Research "Leontieff
Center," a non-profit state company founded in 1991 on the initiative of the Mayor of St.
Petersburg and the Petersburg-born economist and Nobel Prize Laureate, Wassily
Leontieff. The Center has served as the chief research and data analysis organization for
the city for many years. Center research staff have access to essential data not otherwise
available and are uniquely qualified to provide the required analysis. The Center has
successfully undertaken similar assignments for the borrower. The Center will assist the
General Consultant in its planning activities. The particular tasks will be determined by
the consultant and the Center with the approval of the city and the World Bank.
Approximately 200 person months of assistance are expected to be available. Tasks are
expected to include the following:
*  Determining the need for additional data for project implementation based on
a review of the work funded by bilateral donors described above as well as
collecting data.
*  Using the Strategic Plan for the entire city of St. Petersburg to develop a land
use, transport, cultural and economic plan for the central city area that reflects
the role of the center city in the city economy.
* Providing background information on the Federally Targeted Program for the
"Historical Preservation of the St. Petersburg Center City" and working with
city and federal agencies to coordinate the project activities with this
program.
*  Providing information on work done to date and current planning activities.
*  Organizing discussions and other communications with appropriate city
committees and with the appropriate ministries of the federal government.
*  Providing information on local conditions to help ensure that the plans will
be useful to both the city and the Federal Government in implementing the
Federally Targeted Program.
2.7   General Consultancy. The city would enter into a major consultant contract to
help manage the current project and plan future efforts in center city rehabilitation.
Consultants will assist the city and federal government to:
(a)   Provide all administrative support necessary to manage and implement this
project, including the construction management of pilot projects,
monitoring project progress, carrying out continuous social and
environmental assessments and assisting in stakeholder consultations.



6
(b)    Finalize an implementable strategy for Center City rehabilitation; such a
strategy will encompass the FTP and build upon the strategic plan for the
whole of St. Petersburg.3
(c)    Prepare detailed plans for follow on projects of about US$300 million,
including:
* assisting in identifying and defining the efforts to be supported.
* completing all studies necessary for approval of the projects by the
Bank and/or other donors.
*   completing detailed designs, engineering and procurement documents
for the first eighteen months of construction of the follow on projects
*   developing and implementing a simplified GIS system for the center
city area.
*   preparing plans and terms of reference for developing the institutional
framework necessary for the development of the center city.
*   developing detailed relocation policies and plans
2.8    The project will support preparation of much larger follow on projects, The range
of sectors reviewed will be comprehensive, including all of the infrastructure networks,
housing, historic preservation, and economic, social, and environmental development.
Realistically, the only way that the Government can prepare the follow-on project(s)
rapidly is by hiring experienced consultants. Design and engineering have been included
as part of the work of the General Consultant.
2.9    Terms of reference for the General Consultancy are attached in Annex 6. The
Government of St. Petersburg has approved these terms of reference and proposed a short
list of consultants who have submitted proposals. The proposals are being evaluated. All
the firms on the proposed short list are joint ventures between major international firms
and Russian firms. Hiring of the General Consultant is a condition of effectiveness.
2.10 Institution Building and Regulatory Reform. The project will support
institutional development in appropriate government departments and will continue
support for regulatory reform by financing a local organization to deepen on-going work
on city economic strategies and on legislative reform
2.11  Institutional Strengthening. Many Governmental departments will participate in
the rehabilitation and revitalization of the center city. Although most of these
departments have existed for some time, they need to upgrade their human resource
skills, procedures, and equipment, in order to do an effective and efficient job in a market
economy. A detailed needs assessment has been prepared. Examples of some of the
International and local consultants have mobilized for the strategic plan and are planning a stakeholder's
conference. Financing for the strategic plan is being provided through a US$1.5 million grant from
USAID. Terms of reference for the strategic planning work are in Annex 7.



7
specific needs include assistance: (i) to the Architecture Committee with GIS systems and
other electronic planning tools and with land use tools and regulation such as zoning; (ii)
to both the Architecture Committee and the Directorate on Historic Monuments on
technical rules of historic preservation and procedures for approving preservation
projects; (iii) to the Finance Committee on budgeting, utility pricing, and real estate
taxation to complement efforts funded by EBRD and EU TACIS; and (iv) to the Land
Committee for further development of the title registration system;4 and (v) to the
Culture Committee to promote the tourism industry. The Government would like to use
grant assistance from donors to the maximum extent; and the Bank project team has
provided information to donors on needed activities of institutional development. The
loan would be used to provide specific technical assistance to city departments and
agencies, including the purchase of equipment, in cases where high priority requirements
cannot be met with grant assistance. The General Consultant would assist the city in
evaluating priorities for the use of this support and in drawing up technical documents to
facilitate these purchases.
2.12 Regulatory Reform: St. Petersburg Foundation for Development of the Real
Estate Sector. The Foundation for Development of the City Real Estate Market is a non-
budgetary organization created on the initiative of the City Real Estate Commission and
delegated the responsibility to prepare legislation dealing with a wide range of urban
issues. Foundation staff are uniquely qualified to draft legislation required for project
implementation. The Foundation has successfully undertaken similar assignments for the
borrower. The Foundation is also the only formal organization with a membership that
includes major stakeholders. Many private organizations from the city's development
community, as well as industry professionals, are represented on the Foundation's
advisory board. The Foundation has prepared an ambitious legislative agenda but has
limited resources at this time. The Bank loan would be used to support the costs
associated with training, drafting of materials, and services to help implement this
agenda. This includes work on the following and other regulatory acts:
*  City Planning Code of St. Petersburg
*  Law on Investment in Real Estate in St. Petersburg
*  On Real Property Management by [Private Sector] Management Companies
*  Law on Investment Tax Credits
*  The Land Code of St. Petersburg
*  The Land Fee Code
*  Law on Infrastructure Connection Fees and Charges
*  On Sublease of Land Parcels
4The Government of Sweden has indicated that it would be willing to expand previous assistance on tax
mapping and titling to cover the entire center city.



8
PILOT INVESTMENT SCHEMES5
2.13   Purpose. The purpose of pilot projects is to experiment with and demonstrate
new mechanisms for providing traditional services or new or improved services.
Specifically, such projects would: (i) deliver new products or technology; (ii) mobilize
the people and/or the private sector in new ways; (iii) develop new policy and financial
mechanisms; and (iv) test improved implementation capacity (better operations, new
techniques, higher level of activity).
2.14 Sub-components. The following pilot sub-components would be implemented.
2.15 Nevsky Prospekt Upgrading. Nevsky Prospekt is the main shopping, tourist, and
commercial artery of St. Petersburg. It has extremely high volumes of pedestrian and
vehicular traffic, and connects many of the major museums, theaters, and tourist sites. It
is the heart of the city, and provides an anchor for all of the city's activities. The city and
its stakeholders consider the visible improvement of the corridor to be vital to the
rehabilitation of the city as a whole. Therefore, a series of relatively low cost investments
have been planned to provide noticeable improvements along Nevsky Prospekt. These
include the following:
(a)   Street Lighting. Due to severe corrosion and deterioration, the existing
cast-iron light posts on Nevsky Prospekt, dating back to the beginning of
the century, pose a hazard to pedestrians. To date, several incidents of
post failure have been recorded, some resulting in injuries. This pilot
scheme will replace the aging posts with historically appropriate lamp
posts, including the use of more energy efficient lamps. This will provide
better illumination, especially needed in this northern city with its long
nights during the winter.
(b)   Streetscape. Existing sidewalks, which are pockmarked asphalt pathways,
would be replaced with attractive paving offering handicapped access at
street corners. Landscaping and signage would be improved.
(c)   Smaller projects. Provision has been made for the inclusion of smaller
projects along and adjacent to Nevsky Prospekt that would benefit the
city's economic development and historic rehabilitation. Thus far,
smaller projects that have been identified include boat landings for tourist
boats on canals and floating restaurants, and refurbishing a pedestrian
underpass. Individual projects would be smaller than US$500,000
equivalent and would be appraised by Bank missions.
This section describes the pilot schemes; cost recovery, economic justification and risk are evaluated in
Chapter 5.



9
(d)   Infrastructure to service a vacant site. There are a few well located
vacant sites in the center city that offer high commercial potential.
Infrastructure (e.g., connections to the city networks) would be provided to
one of these sites, along with planning documentation. The site would
then be auctioned to private developers. Including this site would give the
city experience in developing documentation and in better understanding
the allocation of responsibilities between the public and private sectors.
2.16  Special Housing Fund. With the exception of a relatively small number of vacant
buildings, most buildings in need of significant rehabilitation in the center of St. Petersburg
are occupied by residential tenants of social housing. Buildings must be vacated in order to
carry out physical rehabilitation and to restructure their existing spaces, and to provide a
sufficient return on private investment. Most existing residents are eager to move to an
individual apartment; in fact, many have been on the waiting list for many years; however,
they lack the means to purchase an apartment. The city's preferred approach to vacating
buildings is through voluntary agreements reached between occupants and private
developers to which the rights of rehabilitation have been delegated; however, developers
often lack the capital to both plan a rehabilitationproject and provide for relocation, and
sources of financing are simply not available. The Special Housing Fund will be a
revolving fund used to make loans to redevelopers of targeted buildings. Such loans would
help redevelopers purchase alternative apartments for existing residents that agree
voluntarily with redevelopers to move. Opening of the Special Housing Fund account is a
condition of disbursement.
2.17  The Fund would be administeredby an agency of the City or by an independent
financial institution under contract to the city and would provide relatively small (US$5,000
-US$35,000 equivalent) short term loans. Social workers and an ombudsman would be
made available to tenants to answer questions and bring their concerns to the attention of
city officials and developers. To provide the maximum protection for tenants, the city has
agreed to a number of conditions and covenants described below. Loans would be made
available on the following terms:
* Loans would be made only in connection with targeted building rehabilitation
projects for which a contract of disposition and rehabilitation has been
entered into between the City and a developer.
*  Loans would be made for up to a specified percentage, to be determined, of
the actual cost of relocating each residential tenant or owner in the building to
a residential dwelling meeting the City's standards for habitability and living
space per person. Bank disbursements would be limited to relocation costs,
including the costs of newly constructed apartments, and legal, administrative
and moving expenses resulting from relocation.6 Loans would not exceed an
The Bank's Articles of Agreement do not permit Bank financing to be used for transferring existing
assets.



10
absolute amount, to be determined by the city with approval by the Bank, per
tenant or owner.
*   Loans will not be made until agreements of relocation have been made with a
specified percentage, to be determined, of the tenants or owners occupying
the building.
*  Loans will be disbursed only upon submission to the city of contracts of sale
or other documentation satisfactory to the city for purchase and sale of (a) the
space to be acquired from the present tenant or owner, and (b) the space to
which the present tenant or owner is to be relocated. In the case of owners,
the city will accept a contract of sale of the apartment to be acquired by the
developer provided that the selling tenant or owner agrees to be responsible
for his own relocation needs.
*  Building redevelopers would be obligated to seek commercial financing once
a building has been vacated. Loans will be repaid to the City upon the earlier
of: obtaining financing from a commercial lender; sale or lease of the
rehabilitated apartment; or an outside date, to be determined, from the date
the loan is made.
*  Loans will be secured by a mortgage on the apartment to be rehabilitated,
which would be released upon sale of the rehabilitated apartment.
*  Loans will bear interest at a rate which will allow repayment of the World
Bank debt, establish reasonable reserves against losses, compensate the city
for its costs of administering the program, and relate to a rate of interest
prevailing in the market.
2.18  The City has agreed to adopt a Housing Fund Operational Manual acceptable to
the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Construction and the Bank incorporating all of
the principles in para 2.17 above. The transmittal of this manual to the Bank is a
condition of disbursement.
2.19  The city also has agreed that not later than three months prior to the
commencement of activities under the Special Housing Fund, the City shall furnish to
the Bank a policy statement defining principles and procedures applicable to the
relocation of residents. from buildings requiring maior rehabilitation in the center of the
city to be financed by the Special Housing Fund.
2.20 Block 130 Public Improvements. In December 1995, the city and Bank jointly
sponsored a meeting of stakeholders to discuss center city rehabilitation. The
stakeholders, which included a mix of investors, professionals, local organizations, city
employees, and donors broke into small working groups. After analysis and deliberation,
the stakeholders decided that Block 130 would be the best area in which to carry out
concentrated pilot schemes. It was selected because of its central location (along Nevsky
Prospekt, the main commercial street of St. Petersburg), the poor physical condition of its
infrastructure and open areas, the wide mixture of existing uses, and its high potential for
commercial and residential development. The block is representative of many of the
problems of the central area. Rehabilitation of the block would provide visible



II
improvements important for the whole city. Moreover, the techniques and methods used
by the city in the planning and rehabilitation of Block 130 would serve as useful
prototypes for the rehabilitation of the entire central area. The Block was studied
intensively during the preparation of the project with the support of USAID, the Finnish
Government, and the City of St. Petersburg. Specific studies included a comprehensive
architectural, planning, design, sociological, financial, and economic studies; and a
special study of zoning. Based on the work completed, the Bank loan would support the
following physical components.
2.21 Pedestrian Mall. A new pedestrian walkway and retail shopping mall would be
constructed to 250 meters through the currently impenetrable heart of one of the largest
blocks in the City Center, providing access across the block and through courtyard
passageways to Nevsky Prospekt. The pedestrian mall will replace a jumble of
underutilized buildings, yards, and an obsolete heating plant. The pedestrian street would
be in harmony with the historic surroundings and would include landscaping, cobbling,
and paving. Space on the mall would be leased to businesses that would erect two story
pavilions for retail activities. It would lead to the open areas that are a remnant of the
former Italian Gardens in the middle of the block adjacent to a school and hospital. The
completion of the component will require the resettlement of about 28 persons from a
severely dilapidated building in accordance with practices acceptable to the Bank.7 The
City has agreed that any involuntar relocation that results from Bank-financed works
would be carried out in accordance with policies and practices acceptable to the Bank.
The city will also nreRare a resettlement plan based on the guidelines agreed with the
Bank.
2.22 Heating System. Building the pedestrian mall will require that an existing
antiquated heating plant be demolished. A new heating system will be erected that
consists of two new small, modular gas fired boiler plants (5.5MW and 8.5MW) to
supply heat for the block. The corroded sections of the internal heat distribution as well as
the above ground sections would be replaced with new, modern, preinsulated heating
pipes and the above ground sections would be replaced (approximately 2.5 km of network
in total). The city plans to contract through a competitive procedure for the operation of
this new facility.
2.23 Soil Removal. The environmental analysis of Block 130 showed high levels of
contamination by heavy metals, including mercury, cadmium and zinc. Although
relatively high levels of heavy metal soil contamination are typical for the whole of the
historic center, the levels in Block 130 have tested to be twice as high as the average and
Bank procedures do not require a formal relocation plan for so few people, however, the relocation
procedures were agreed at negotiations and are reflected in the supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement.
The city's policy is to reach voluntary agreement with tenants. If voluntary agreement is not possible, the
city must offer at least three alternative individual apartments that meet norms in terms of space and
amenities. All of the alternatives would be more spacious and have better amenities than the present
communal apartment.



12
are classified by Russian standards as dangerous and extremely dangerous. Therefore,
the pilot project will include the removal of the soil in open spaces on the whole of the
site, as well as the replacement with uncontaminated soil and landscaping.
2.24 Elderly Housing. Some 35% of the existing residents of the central city (and
23% of residents of the block) are elderly, most living in communal apartments in
dilapidated buildings. They are the most vulnerable of residents; most live on small fixed
incomes, and moving away from their existing neighborhood in order to improve their
housing conditions would pose special hardships. Because land values in the center are
high, relocating elderly residents of existing apartments in the center would not be
attractive for private developers. Therefore, this component will provide funds for
construction or rehabilitation of a building housing approximately 200 elderly persons
relocating from communal apartments. Construction costs must be competitive with
prices in the secondary market for modest apartments, since developers are expected to
provide funds to existing residents that will permit their purchase. This would imply a
subsidy for the opportunity cost of the land, but no direct financial subsidy on the part of
the city.8 The city has agreed to submit detailed plans acceptable to the Bank before the
component is implemented covering disposal of units, recovery of costs, building
operations and recurrent cost financing. and monitoring the continued operation and use
of the buildinz.
2.25   Kapella Courtyards. The City prepared a pilot scheme to provide infrastructure to
a series of courtyards near the Winter Palace that are already used as an informal
passageway. Some historically important buildings adjoining the courtyards would be
auctioned to the private sector for major rehabilitation and provision of commercial space
on the ground floor; while some remaining spaces would be improved for the current
building occupant, which is a major musical organization. The pilot would demonstrate
an interesting way of revitalizing cultural assets and supporting commercial activities,
while providing financial benefits to the City.
2.26   The City plans to renovate the public spaces in the courtyards by improving
infrastructure, paving, landscaping; and installing upgraded lights, advertising standards,
railings, and street furniture. They envisage the courtyards themselves as a locale for
open concerts, outdoor cafes, recreational areas, and flower and souvenir kiosks. The
first floors of the buildings would house stores, cafes, restaurants, exhibition halls, and
public restrooms. Bank financing has been requested for infrastructure, while private
financing would be sought for renovation of two buildings into hotels and for renovation
of first floor spaces for commercial activities. One of the hotels would be a modest hotel
that would contain facilities (studios, practice rooms etc.) for visiting musicians. The city
plans to auction development rights to private investors for the two buildings through
The average cost of construction for modest units is US$425/M2, while the sales price of similar units on
the secondary market is US$475. This would provide a 21% financial rate of return for the city's
investment.



13
competitive procedures. Although the city would like to facilitate the upgrading of all of
the buildings on the courtyards over time, it may take a number of years for the market to
absorb this development; and the financial and economic analysis of the project is
predicated on auctioning only two buildings and re-leasing some commercial space. The
completion of the component will require the relocation of about 18 persons from the first
floors of buildings to be rehabilitated in accordance with practices acceptable to the
Bank.9 The City has agreed that any involuntary relocation that results from Bank-
financed works would be carried out in accordance with policies and practices acceptable
to the Bank. A resettlement action plan is a condition of disbursement.
2.27  Cultural Fund. The objective of the fund is to assist the major federally owned
cultural organizations in St. Petersburg to improve their ability to generate non-budgetary
revenue. The fund would be used to make grants to the 11 major federally supported
major cultural organizations of St. Petersburg. Grants would be used for small
subprojects that either: a) provide facilities and/or equipment needed to improve their
non-budgetary revenue generating capabilities; or b) provide operational improvements to
improve the financial and/or administrative management of the organization.
2.28 The fund would be operated by the Foundation for Housing Reform, a Moscow-
based Foundation that is charged with responsibility for the Russian Federation Housing
Project, the proposed Water Supply and Sewerage project, the Federally Targeted
Program for Renovation of the historic areas of St. Petersburg, and the federally related
activities of the St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project. A staff member is
already in place who would be charged with responsibility for the fund. Technical
appraisal of grant requests by qualified experts would be required. Decisions on each
grant would be made by an advisory committee to be formed with representation from the
Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Finance, and other Governmental and non-
Governmental organizations that are knowledgeable about cultural needs. Establishment
of the Inter-Ministerial Grant Approval committee is a condition of disbursement.
Adoption of an Operating Manual acceptable to the Bank is a condition of disbursement.
9Please see note 7.






St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project
Technical Annex
3. INSTITUTIONAL SETTING, REGULATION AND
IMPLEMENTATION
STRUCTURE OF ST. PETERSBURG GOVERNMENT
3.1   The constitution of the Russian Federation provides St. Petersburg with regional
status as a "Subject of the Federation." Legislative power is carried out by a Legislative
Assembly of 49 deputies. Executive power is held by the elected Governor of St.
Petersburg and by the St. Petersburg Government. The Government operates through a
series of Committees and Departments that report to specific deputy governors serving at
the pleasure of the governor. In addition, there are 20 city districts that provide services
through district administrations to the population. In 1994, five former districts in the
historic center were regrouped into two (Tsentralnii and Admiralteiskii) in order to
streamline management and cut costs. The organizational structure and functions of the
committees and departments are available in the project files.
FINANCES OF ST. PETERSBURG GOVERNMENT
3.2   The City government is a large organization with complex responsibilities. While
all Russian cities depend in significant ways on the actions of the federal government, St.
Petersburg's status as a Subject of the Federation provides it with more latitude than other
cities (except for Moscow). For example, St. Petersburg may issue municipal debt and it
does not report to a regional government. As is the case for nearly all Russian cities, St.
Petersburg is facing financial problems as the result of the changes taking place in the
Russian economy and systems of government and taxation over the past several years.
Financial deficits for 1995 were US$186 million equivalent and budgeted deficits for
1996 are US$532 million equivalent' compared to revenues of US$2.2 billion equivalent.
Debt is short term and rising. As of September 1, 1996, loan debt was about US$500
million equivalent. This is in addition to accounts payable, which were equal to three
months of expenditures at the beginning of 1996.
3.3   The city is addressing its financial problems, and the situation is likely to improve
over the next several years. The city is preparing a balanced budget for 1997. The
However, it is likely that the city will make expenditure adjustments to reduce this deficit before the end
of 1996.



16
governor issued a forty four point program to improve the city's revenues and to reduce
expenditures. This program required that city departments and committees complete and
submit a number of reports and draft legislation before the end of 1996. The governor's
program covers every aspect of revenues - taxes, leases, user charges and gambling. The
changes are expected to result in increased revenue of 1,020 billion rubles a year (almost
US$200 million).
3.4   The EBRD has provided significant help to the city in evaluating its financial
position. Under the EBRD program a number of task forces have been formed to help
develop plans for controlling expenditures. The Know How Fund has worked in close
cooperation with the EBRD program to introduce concepts of cash flow and debt
planning. International investment banks have also been working with the city to prepare
it to issue bonds on the international market. The Bank has closely coordinated the
preparation of this project with EBRD to assure that the two initiatives are compatible
and support each other.
3.5   Because the city's financial position is very weak, the city administration and the
federal government have insisted that the investments supported by Bank loans (including
this project and the St. Petersburg component of the Housing Project) provide for cost
recovery and loan repayment. They also point out that it is essential to maximize the
potential for private investment in the city's recovery. More information on cost recovery
associated with the project is provided in Chapter 5 (Benefits). Details on the city's
finances are available in Annex 5.
3.6   Although the City's financial management has started to improve, additional work
is needed with regard to the City's budget, accounting, and other financial systems in
order for the City to contract for the large amount of investment finance that it will
require in the future to finance the Center City Rehabilitation Program and its other
needs. The City has agreed to prepare a detailed plan and timetable by December 31.
1997 for undertaking specific improvements in financial management.
REGULATION
3.7   St. Petersburg has moved aggressively to develop a market infrastructure for
private property. The Bank has been a partner in these efforts: first, through the
inclusion of a Regulatory Action Program (RAP) for St. Petersburg as part of the Housing
Project, and second, through the preparation of this center city project.
3.8   Achievements. There is a great deal of real estate reform ongoing in St.
Petersburg. The city subscribes to the position that localities must take the initiative to
enact their own normative frameworks. Most legislative development is sponsored by the
city's Property Committee (KUGI), which chairs the city's Real Estate Committee and
sponsors stakeholder involvement through the Fund for Development of the St.
Petersburg Real Estate Market, a nonprofit organization created by KUGI. Some of the
city's achievements include:



17
(a)   Perhaps the most aggressive enterprise land privatization program in
Russia. Almost 1,000 applications accepted and over 300 titles actually
transferred (by December 1995).
(b)   The successful auction of land to private developers, under the Bank-
supported Housing Project (see below).
(c)   A working system of title registration, though in need of further
development.
(d)   Almost complete privatization of retail spaces.
(e)   An aggressive program of enterprise privatization (78% of enterprises
private by September 1995).
(f)    Concentrated work in real property appraisal and in improving the quality
of property rights, particularly for leaseholds.
(g)   An investment tender regulation on disposal of buildings and land through
competitive procedures.
(h)   An ordinance requiring market assessments for municipally managed real
property. This should improve the calculation of rates for long-term
property leases.
3.9   Housing Project Regulatory Action Plan (RAP). The RAP agreed to by the
city as part of the Housing Project in 1994 identified 4 key areas of regulatory reform:
title registration; land allocation/privatization; land use and development controls; and
housing reform. The city has substantially complied with expectations in all of the
targeted areas of reform. A summary of regulatory progress is attached in Annex 1 1.
3.10  Progress in registration of real estate rights was made early in the reform process,
and today the city has one of the most advanced systems in the Russian Federation for
registration of rights to housing, and steady progress is being made with respect to
registration of right to land and commercial structures. Regarding land
allocation/privatization, St. Petersburg successfully auctioned 87% of housing project
sites to private developers, and has moved very aggressively to privatize enterprise
owned land. With regard to reform of land use and development controls, the city agreed
to undertake a comprehensive review of present procedures and make adjustments to
accommodate the new market realities. In fact, there is presently a great deal of activity
in this area, involving several key city agencies and technical cooperation from USAID.
Recent seminars and round table discussions among key administrators and city
legislators have prompted support for reform of the antiquated master planning system
and positive steps toward a modem system of land use control, including a tentative
workplan for creation of a zoning ordinance.



18
3.11  Perhaps the most encouraging progress had been made recently in housing reform,
where the city has completed a successful pilot programs to encourage and assist in
creation of condominium associations; commenced a pilot program for tendering housing
management responsibilities to private sector firms; and taken steps to improve its system
of housing allowances.
3.12  Future Reforms. The City also has articulated objectives and a program of
legislative development to create an efficient private real estate market. The recently
elected governor of St. Petersburg sent a policy letter to the Bank describing and detailing
the program. The program will develop and further refine private property rights,
including the rights of lease and sublease. The program demonstrates that St. Petersburg
is grappling with issues of the demarcation between public and private rights that are
faced by all market economies. For example, the legislative program covers techniques to
strengthen the ability of the public authorities to regulate and guide development and land
use while preserving investment and market incentives of private parties. The ambitious
legislative development program includes the following specific legislative or normative
acts:
(a)   City Planning Code of St. Petersburg
(b)   On Real Property Management by [Private Sector] Management
Companies
(c)   The Land Code of St. Petersburg
(d)   The Land Fee Code
(e)   On Sublease of Land Parcels
(f)   St. Petersburg Zoning Code
IMPLEMENTATION
3.13  Project Management Structures. The city recognizes that the center city
renovation is a complex and multi-sectoral effort that will require the inputs of many city
committees that are used to operating rather independently. It also requires coordination
with other specific initiatives, such as the EBRD-financed effort to improve municipal
finances and with stakeholders outside the city government. Therefore, the Governor has
set up structures for project preparation and implementation to coordinate among the
various departments and committees and with the federal government. First, a
local/federal Coordinating Group headed by the Governor provides for the highest level
review and approvals. The Coordinating Group includes the six deputy mayors most
concerned with the center city activities, including the two first deputy governors. The
Coordinating Group also includes three representatives from the federal level, from the



19
Ministries of Construction, Economy, and Finance.2 Second, the governor set up a
Working Group with individual members from many departments. St. Petersburg's
Director of Construction has been named chairman of the Working Group. The Working
Group provides for communication and operational support from the various committees
of the city concerned with the project. Third, the governor is setting up a Foundation
responsible for day-to-day supervision of the project (see below).
3.14 Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The City has established the PIU, which
will supervise the day to day work of the project and provide the link to the working and
coordinating groups. Most of the actual technical work would be performed by the
General Consultant. The legal form for the PIU is as a non-commercial foundation, the
St. Petersburg Foundation for Investment Projects. The Foundation has founders drawn
from the stakeholders. The Foundation would eventually handle projects that receive
funding from the Bank and from EBRD and other large projects. Initially, the
Foundation is planned to handle three related projects, this Center City Rehabilitation
Project, the St. Petersburg component of the Russian Federation Housing Project
(absorbing the staff of the existing Local Project Implementation Unit) and the Federally
targeted program for Preservation and Renovation of the Historic Areas of St. Petersburg.
Funds from the Center City project would pay the salaries and overhead of the staff of the
foundation concerned with the project.
3.15 Bank Supported Project Review Unit. The Government of Finland has
provided a US$3.4 million grant to assist in the preparation of the St. Petersburg Center
City Projects, as well as preparation of a Russian Federation Water and Sewerage Project.
The Finnish Government required, and the Bank agreed, that the funds would be
disbursed through a trust fund in the World Bank. The Government of Russia has signed
the grant agreement. Under the terms of the grant, funds may only be used for
preparation of the current project and the follow-on project; funds may not be used for
project implementation. A Project Review Unit (PRU) funded by the Grant and staffed
by long-term and short-term international professionals and some local staff was
established to assist St. Petersburg in reviewing the preparation of this Project and the
larger project that would succeed it. The PRU will provide advisory services to the St.
Petersburg government on the preparation of follow-on investments and will assist in
coordinating donor inputs on the current project.
3.16  Role of Stakeholders. St. Petersburg has a broad range of stakeholders with
different, but not necessarily conflicting, interests in the rehabilitation of the Center City.
The two boxes identify some of these stakeholders.
2 The representative from the Ministry of Construction is the Deputy Minister for Housing Reform, who
also oversees the Bank supported Housing Project.



20
Stakeholders in the Population
Residents, including
*      Owners of Privatized Housing
*      Tenants of Individual Apartnents owned by the city
*      Tenants of Communal Housing Owned by the City
*      Owners of Cooperative Housing
*      The Elderly (mainly women -constitute 30% of the population)
*      Special Groups entitled to housing subsidies (e.g., the military, police, refugees, Chemobyl victims,
veterans)
*      Owners of "dachas" or summer homes (25% of households)
Business Community
*      Construction firms and developers
-      Bankers
*      Tenants of commercial space
*      Real Estate professionals (architects, engineers, brokers)
*      Building material companies
3.17   The city has explicitly recognized the need to collaborate with stakeholders in the
planning of center city rehabilitation and in the implementation of the improvements
themselves. The business and professional community are assisting in drafting
legislation. In addition, the December 1995 stakeholders seminar, attended by
stakeholders from citizens groups, the business community, donors, foundations and the
government, coalesced on a number of recommendations in addition to the
recommendation of locating pilots in Block 130. These include the need to: a) further
refine leases and other documents for transferring property rights; b) clarify the technical
rules for preservation requirements of historic buildings and provide incentives for their
rehabilitation; c) streamline procedures for issuing building permits and for marketing
city properties; d) define the rights and responsibilities of Area Development Agencies;
and e) complete regulations on condominium formation and provide financial facilities
for rehabilitation and reconstruction of buildings by condominium associations.
3.18   During project implementation, five mechanisms are proposed for continuing and
deepening stakeholder involvement and collaboration:
(a)    Surveys and public opinion polls, buildin  on surveys already carried out
in Block 130 and the Kapella Courtyards.
3 There is a lack of informnation available on settlement patterns, housing conditions, land uses, and the views
of citizens regarding their needs. It is necessary to develop this information for the entire center city through
structured surveys early in the implementation of the project.



21
(b)    Information sharing through public hearings, targeted public education,
and training programs. This will be particularly important with regard to
residents of Block 130 and Kapella Courtyards.
(c)    Consultation with the business community and with residents through
focus groups and meetings.4
Identificationof "official" Stakeholders
Govenunent, including
*      The St. Petersburg Government
*      The Federal Government
Donors, including
*      International Development Agencies (World Bank, EBRD, Tacis,
EU)
*      International Cultural Agencies (UNESCO)
*      Bi-lateral Donors (Finland, US, Sweden, UK)
*      Cultural Foundations (Getty Conservation Institute)
(d)    Collaboration between departments of the city and with the donors.
(e)    Ownership, including the full acceptance of responsibility by the city for
rehabilitating the city through its own efforts; and the recognition by the
residents that they must maintain and upgrade their own housing and
neighborhoods.
3.19 Implementation Schedule. The project would be implemented over a period of
three and a half years. A detailed implementationschedule is in Annex 16 Schedule A.
The schedule calls for the hiring of the General Consultant and initiation of pilot schemes in
April 1997. The project should be complete by June 30, 2000.
4 Participation of residents is currently difficult because non-governmental organization (NGOs) are just
beginning to form and there appears to be mistrust and disinterest due in part to the economic hardships
associated with the transition.



22
3.20   Accounting. The City of St. Petersburg would be responsible for the appropriate
accounting of the funds provided by the Bank under the Project, for reporting on the use
of these funds and for ensuring timely submission of audits of financial statements and
reports to the Bank.
3.21   The City would establish an accounting system to provide information on the
proper receipt and use of funds furnished in accordance with the Loan Agreement. It
would perform these functions through the PIU.s The PIU, in turn, will direct the
General Consultant to set up the system and make the entries. Accounting for all Special
Account transactions and all other project accounts will be maintained in accordance with
practices and standards satisfactory to the Bank, with the objective of timely and accurate
accounting of all transactions under the Project.
3.22   Reporting. Reporting would be geared to the specific requirements of the project
in a format satisfactory to the Bank. The City will submit reports on a quarterly basis. A
mid-term review will assist in providing for mid-course corrections. A Project
Completion Report would be submitted to the Bank by the City promptly after the
conclusion of project activity, and in any event not later than 6 months after the loan
closing date.
3.23 Monitoring Indicators. Monitoring indicators to be used in reporting include:
(a)    Objective: to further develop and agree with the city and Federal
authorities on a strategic plan and a city investment program for center city
rehabilitation.
(i)    Decisions of the city government and coordinating council on the
development of the strategic plan.
(ii)    Development of short-term and mid-term development plans.
(iii)   Progress on design and engineering for works for the first two
years of the follow-on project to be financed by the Bank.
(b)    Objective: to continue regulatory reform to assure competitive real estate
markets and a competitive business environment in the center city.
(i)    List and evaluate new regulatory and legal documents.
(ii)    An increasing percentage of non-budgetary investment in
construction and rehabilitation of buildings.
5 The accounting system for tracking the administrative expenditures of the PIU itself has already been set
up with advisory assistance from the Foundation for Housing Reform (the CPIU for the Russian Federation
Housing Project).



23
(iii)   An increasing percentage of lots and buildings on blocks included
in this project will be awarded to developers on a competitive basis
for rehabilitation.
(iv)   An increase in cost recovery for building maintenance and utilities
due to increase in rents and utility payments with subsidies
targeted increasingly to low-income groups of the population.
(c)   Objective: to initiate a program of public information and participation in
the decision making process for city development and investment;
(i)    Mass media (e.g., number of publications, including ads and TV
programs).
(ii)   Direct work with the public and with public organizations (i.e.,
meetings with the public, etc.).
(d)   Obiective: to carry out some visible physical improvements that can be
replicated on a larger scale in the future by implementing the pilot
projects;
(i)   Preparation of tender documentation.
(ii)   Signed contracts (number).
(iii)   Disbursements (amount).
3.24  Auditing. The project accounts, including the Special Account and the Cultural
Fund Operational Account, would be audited annually by independent auditors under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Separate audit statements would be prepared
for the Special Account and for Statement of Expenditures. All audit reports would be
made available to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year (i.e., by June
30).






St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project
Technical Annex
4. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENT
COSTS
4.1    The Total project cost is estimated at about US$46. 1 million equivalent, including
contingencies amounting to US$3.9 million, which represents about 9.9% of base costs.
The estimated costs by component and by category of expenditure are shown in Tables
4.1 and 4.2.'
Table 4.1
Project Cost Summary by Project Component
US$ million                     l
Foreign      Local      Total  % Foreign    % Total
Exchange   Base Cost
1. Technical
Cooperation
(a) Administration,          7.4         9.1       16.5         45          42
Planning and
Engineering
(b) Institution Building     0.5         0.4        0.9         58           2
& Regulatory Reform
2. Pilot Schemes             7.8        14.0       21.8          36         56
Total Baseline Cost         15.7        23.5       39.2         37         100
Physical Contingencies       0.7         1.7        2.4         30           6
Price Contingencies          0.5         1.0        1.5         34           4
Indirect Cost of City        0.0         3.0        3.0          0           8
Support
TOTAL                       16.9       29.1        46.1         37         118
The detailed breakdown of project costs and financing by subcomponent is available in the project files
(see Annex 15).



26
Table 4.2
Project Costs Summary by Category of Expenditure
US$ million
Foreign    Local   Total      % Foreign      % Total
Exchange    Base Cost
1. Investment Costs
A. Technical Cooperation (TC)     7.4      9.4    16.8             44           43
B. Civil Works                    2.2     10.2    12.4             18           32
C. Goods                          6.1      2.1      8.2            74           21
D. Subloans                       0.0       1.8     1.8             0            4
Total Baseline Costs             15.7     23.5    39.2             40           100
Physical Contingencies            0.7      1.7      2.4            30            6
Price Contingencies               0.5      1.0      1.5            34            4
Indirect Cost of City Support     0.0      3.0      3.0             0            8
TOTAL                            16.9     29.1    46.1             37           118
BASIS OF COST ESTIMATES
4.2    Project Costs were estimated as follows:
(a)    Base Costs. All project costs are based on April 1996 prices converted to
US dollars. Technical cooperation costs for the general consultancy and
three local institutes (the Leontieff Center, the Fund for Development of
the Real Estate Sector, and the Project Implementation Unit) are derived
from recent fees quoted for comparative specialized services in Bank-
financed projects in Russia and are estimated per person month at
US$17,000 for external specialist services and US$700 for local specialist
services. The person month costs of TC include fees, recruitment/
relocation costs, housing and subsistence (for foreigners), and overheads.
Technical cooperation costs of design and engineering are based on
standardized charges in Russia and elsewhere of 8% of the cost of civil
works. Equipment unit costs are based on recent quotations from suppliers
of equipment and software. Civil works costs are based on recent
experience in St. Petersburg and include the cost of relocation (if relevant).



27
(b)   Contingency Allowances. Contingencies for domestic price increases are
projected at 10%2 per year with the exchange rate of US$ = 4700 Rbl.
International inflation rates are included at 5 % per year.3 Physical
contingency allowances are included at 15 % for goods and works, 0% for
TC. Price and physical contingencies account for 8.5 % of project costs
(US$3.9 million).
(c)   Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component was
estimated at 45 % of total Technical Cooperation. The local content is
mainly for local consultants. Equipment purchases are assumed to be
100% (less foreign import duty) for equipment purchased on the
international market and 80% for equipment purchased locally. Total
project costs are US$46.1 million of which the foreign exchange
component is US$16.9 million.
(d)   Local Costs, Taxes and Duties. Project costs include a local cost
component of US$29. 1 million equivalent, which is 74% of baseline
project costs (excluding contingencies). Taxes are estimated to amount to
20 percent of items purchased locally. Taxes will be financed by the
Government of St. Petersburg.
2 Source: Europe and Central Asia: Russia Country Division.
3 Source: Index of Unit Value of Manufactured Exports.



28
FINANCING
4.3    Financing arrangements are shown in the Table below:
Table 4.3
Project Financing Plan
Component            R              Cost                 Source of Finance
Foreign    Local    Total   Bank  Donors   Local  Developers
Gov't
1. Technical
Cooperation
(a) Administration,       7.4      9.1    16.5   11.1       3.5     1.9         0.0
Planning and Engineenng                       _         _
(b) Institution Building &  0.5    0.4      0.9    0.7      0.0    0.1          0.0
Regulatory Reforn
2. Pilot Schemes          7.8      14.0    21.8   16.0      0.0     5.4         0.4
Unallocated                1.2     2.7      3.9    3.2      0.0    0.7          0.0
(contingencies)
Indirect Cost of City     0.0      3.0      3.0    0.0      0.0     3.0         0.0
Support
TOTAL                     16.9    29.1    46.1   31.0       3.5    11.1         0.4
4.4    Bank Loan. The total financing required, excluding interest during construction,
but including V.A.T. and duties is US$46.1 million, of which the Bank would finance
US$3 1.0 million equivalent (equivalent to 100% of the foreign exchange and 45% of
local costs). Of this total, US$1.0 million would be retained by the federal government
for the Special Culture Fund. The remaining US$30.0 million of the Bank loan will be
passed on by the Federal Government to the Government of St. Petersburg.
Arrangements will include a subsidiary loan for US$25.0 million and a grant for US$5.0
million. The subsidiary loan will feature a 0.5% spread over the cost to the Government
and the same maturities as the Bank loan. The loan would be a single currency loan
designated in US dollars at a floating LIBOR-based rate. The signing of a Subsidiary
Financing Agreement is a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan. The remaining
project costs would be covered by donors, supplier credits, and by the Government of St.
Petersburg.
4.5    Grant Financing. The project team has contacted a sizable number of official
donors and cultural NGOs in order to gain partners in the Center City Rehabilitation
Program and to assure that the international and bi-lateral community are operating in
concert with one another. As a result, a grant agreement has been signed with the



29
Government of Finland providing US$2.0 million for feasibility studies and other
preparatory costs of the follow-on project(s), and USAID has pledged to provide US$1.5
million to finance the strategic plan. In addition, Sweden, the Netherlands and the Getty
Foundation are financing related institution building, regulation, and seminars. Finally,
the City and the Bank are coordinating efforts closely with EBRD, Tacis and UNESCO.
4.6    Local/Borrower Contribution. The City of St. Petersburg will contribute
US$11.1 million to the project through its budgetary and extra-budgetary resources, a
sum equivalent to 24% of total project costs. Of this amount, approximately US$8.1
million will finance direct costs, while the remaining US$3.0 million will finance indirect
costs (local salaries, overhead, etc.). The schedule of local contributions is shown in
Table 4.4 below. Counterpart contributions would use 0.5% of the city's total budget (in
1996) of about US$2.2 billion equivalent and 5.6% of its budget for capital investment of
US$200 million equivalent. If this were the only project to be financed, the city would
not have a problem in meeting counterpart requirements; however, despite significant
revenues, the city's financial position is poor (see Chapter 3 and Annex 5). In order to
assure that project implementation is not delayed or compromised due to counterpart
finance problems, Government of St. Petersburg has agreed to: (i) not later than Februar,
1. 1997. open a Project Account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank with an initial deposit equivalent to US$100.000: and (ii) thereafter maintain
and replenish said account at the beginning of each month to ensure that adequate funds.
as deemed necessary by the Bank. are available to meet expected local expenditures for
the next two months. In addition to the city contribution, private developers will provide
funds for the small amount in voluntary resettleent required ($1 80.000). The City will
be responsible for proper fulfillment of developers'obligations. Beneficiary organizations
of the Cultural Fund would also provide required counterpart funding ($250,000).
Table 4.4
Municipal Direct Contributions
US$ thousand
FISCAL YEAR
1998                      1999                     2000
COMPONENT          1    2      3     4     1       2      3      4      1    2    3    4
Technical Cooperation  80   80   80   80    230    230    230    230  194  194  194  194
Civil Works           122   122  122  122    343    343    343    343  306  306  306  306
Goods                 133   133   133  133    454    454    454    454  169  169  169  169
Total by Quarter      335   335   335  335   1,027  1,027  1,027  1,028  669  669  669  669
Total by Year                          1,338                       4,108                 2,674



30
PROCUREMENT
4.7    General. Procurement will be the responsibility of the Project Implementation
Uinit, assisted by the General Consultant. All Bank-financed consulting services, goods,
and civil works will be procured, respectively, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing
Agency (August 1981) and Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January
1995 and revisions of January and August, 1996). Procurement actions will be carried
out using the Bank's standard bidding documents. A summary of procurement categories
and procurement methods is shown in Table 4.5.4 (All numbers in the Procurement
section include allocated contingencies, and therefore will not concur with figures from
other sections where contingencies have not been allocated)
Table 4.5
Summary of Procurement Categories
Procurement Method
Project Element                       ICB       NCB       Otherc      NBF        Total
_Costs
1. Works                               1.5       11.8        1.4        0.2      14.8
(1.2)     (9.1)      (1.1)      (0.0)     (11.4)
2. Goods                               7.1        0.0        2.0        0.0        9.2
(4.3)     (0.0)      (1.7)      (0.0)      (6.0)
3. Consultancies                       0.0        0.0       13.9        3.5       17.4
(0.0)     (0.0)     (11.8)      (0.0)     (11.8)
4. Subloans                            0.0        0.0        1.8        0.0        1.8
(0.0)     (0.0)      (1.8)      (0.0)      (1.8)
5. Indirect Costs to City              0.0        0.0        0.0        3.0        3.0
(0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0!      ()0)     (0.0!
TOTAL                                8.6      11.8       19.0        6.7       46.1
(5.5)     L9.1)     L36.4)     (Q 0)    (31.0)
The detailed procurement schedule by subcomponent with allocated contingencies is available in the
project files (see Annex 15).



31
NBF = Not bank financed.
/a Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
/b Due to rounding, the numbers may not add up.
/c Includes NS, IS and consultancy assignment, as explained in paras. 4.8 through
4.11 below.
/d Figures in table include allocated contingencies.
4.8    Technical Cooperation. A total of about US$17.4 million (US$11.8 million in
loan funds) is allocated for technical cooperation, including US$11.6 million (loan
amount) for administration, planning and engineering and US$0.2 (loan amount) for
institution building. Technical cooperation includes US$10.2 (loan amount) for work
undertaken by the general consultant and a total of US$1.6 million (loan amount) for
three sole source contracts: (a) the Project Implementation Unit (loan amount US$0.8
million) will be staffed by the people who oversaw and coordinated the preparation work,
which will ensure continuity from project preparation to project implementation; (b) the
Leontieff Center (loan amount US$0.5 million), the chief research and data analysis
organization in the city with sole access to essential data necessary for required analysis
and extensive experience with similar assignments for the borrower; and (c) the Fund for
Development of the Real Estate Sector (loan amount US$0.3 million), a non-budgetary
organization created on the initiative of the City Real Estate Commission and delegated
the responsibility to prepare legislation dealing with a wide range of urban issues. The
Fund is the only organization with staff who are sufficiently skilled to draft legislation
required for project implementation. The Foundation has successfully undertaken similar
assignments for the borrower.5 The contract for the General Consultant would be awarded
to a firm whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment are
satisfactory to the Bank, following the competitive selection procedures in the Bank's
Guidelines. The participation of local consulting firms would be encouraged to develop
the local consulting industry. The assignment for the General Consultancy will require a
firmn with significant experience in historic preservation, real estate development, finance
and design and engineering around the world. The Government of St. Petersburg has
received proposals from a short list of six firms that would be suitable for the general
consultancy. In addition to the major contract for planning, management, design and
engineering, a number of relatively small contracts with individuals and with firms will
be required for specific institutional building consultants on which donor finance is not
forthcoming. The Bank would review and approve the terms of reference for all
consultancies. In addition, contracts with individuals over US$50,000 and with firms
over US$100,000 will be subject to prior Bank review and approval. Contracts with
An additional US$0.5 million is planned to be used primarily for purchase of computers and other
equipment and software, covered under "goods," although a small amount might be used for small
contracts for individual short-term consultants, training, seminars, study tours, etc. These small
contracts would also be procured on a sole source basis.



32
firms and individuals under these amounts would be subject to ex-post review on a
selective basis during supervision missions and/or as part of periodic procurement
implementation reviews.
4.9   Civil Works. Pilot schemes will include small civil works, including
landscaping, leveling, storm drainage, roads and paving, installation of street lights and
decorative lights, installation of bus shelters, signs and ramps and handrails, potable and
waste water conduits, gas pipelines, electrical and telephone services, utility substations,
and repairs to some structures. Contracts above US$ 1.0 million will be procured through
ICB. Contracts between US$0.1 million and under US$1 million will be procured
through NCB. Approximately 17 such contracts are expected at an average size of
US$0.7 million. Should it be necessary to procure any works under US$100,000,
national shopping by competitive quotations will be used.
4.10  Civil works contracts will be tendered using the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents (Procurement of Works: Smaller Contracts). The first three NCB contracts,
irrespective of value, will be pre-reviewed. The remaining packages will be subject to
post-review. Prior reviews will thus cover about 25% of the monetary total of civil works
financed by the Bank. For NCB contracts, the city will use Regional Standard Bidding
documents for works through NCB issued in August 1995.
4.11  Contractors interested in bidding under International Competitive Bidding
procedures will be prequalified. Contractors will be expected to comply with customary
civil works standards regarding experience, payment terns, and guarantees. During
prequalification, financial statements of foreign and domestic contractors, participating as
either independents or in association with other firms, will be examined to establish their
financial capacity. In the prequalification, potential bidders would be qualified to bid up
to an acceptable portion of their respective net financial and operational capacities.
4.12  Subloans. Subloans (US$1.8 million) under the special housing fund will be
made to developers to assist in relocating tenants to newly-constructed housing.
Individual subloans will be under US$35,000 equivalent and will be awarded on a "first
come first serve" basis to developers who meet detailed requirements spelled out in an
operational manual acceptable to the Bank (see para. 2.17-2.18).
4.13  Equipment and Goods. Contracting for goods with contract values estimated to
be in excess of US$300,000 equivalent will be procured by ICB. The Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents for the Procurement of Goods (of January 1995) will be used and
these contracts will be subject to prior Bank review. The Bank's current domestic
preference procedure would be used in all ICB nrocurement of goods. A total of five
contracts above US$300,000 are expected for the v lot projects. International Shopping
(IS) will be used for purchases which are betweeni UJS$50,000 and US$300,000 per
estimated contract value and have specifications that would be of interest to external
suppliers. The loan will finance about US$0.5 million of equipment and materials
associated with institutional development of Governmental departments and agencies.



33
The loan would be used for necessary equipment, software and materials that cannot be
covered through grants from donors. National Shopping will be used for purchases below
US$50,000. It is difficult to estimate the amount of ICB, IS, and National Shopping
purchases, because the Government is still in the process of ascertaining the interest of
donors to provide grants for some of this equipment; however, an allowance based on
reasonable estimates places the amount of such contracting as shown in Table 4.5 above.
4.14  Procurement Supervision. A tender committee has been appointed by the city's
Coordinating Committee to evaluate bids and make awards. The PIU will oversee the
general consultants engaged by the City of St. Petersburg, who will handle all
procurement aspects of the project. They will need to employ specialized staff to cover
these aspects. They will prepare documentation, participate in organizing the project
launch workshop (to be held within one month of their appointment), assist in the general
procurement notice (to be prepared within one month of their appointment), procurement
planning, bid packages, solicitations, evaluations, contracting and periodic procurement
reporting requirements. They will also help coordinate documentation flows needed to
secure the Bank's clearances and "No-Objections" on consultants' TORs and equipment
packages needing prior Bank review. Information on procurement activities will be
included in periodic reports prepared by the General Consultant and submitted quarterly
to the Bank on the progress in the project.
4.15  The above procurement plan will result in the Bank's prior review of about 43%
of total Bank funds committed for works and equipment. Besides reviewing TORs, Bank
reviews of contracting actions for consultant services and technical assistance activities
will cover all of the total Bank funding for technical assistance inputs. In addition, Bank
staff will monitor procurement activities, contract administration and project record-
keeping through the staff provided to the PRU under a Bank executed trust fund and
during supervision missions.
DISBURSEMENTS
4.16 Disbursements. The Bank would finance: (i) 100% of foreign expenditures of
imported goods, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80% of costs of other
items obtained locally; (ii) 100%, excluding any taxes, of consultants; (iii) 100% of
subloans; and (iv) 80% of total cost of works including taxes.
4.17  The estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Table 4.6. Disbursements
are expected to be completed within a period of 3 years from the date of effectiveness.
Please see Table 4.1 (earlier in this chapter) for a list of expenditure categories and
amounts.
4.18  Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the borrower will
establish, maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special
Account in US dollars in a commercial bank within three months of effectiveness using
standard procedures in Russia. The authorized allocation of the special account is US$1.2



34
million. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and
must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents.
4.19 Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements would be made against
Statements of Expenditure for individual consulting contracts of up to US$50,000
equivalent, firm consulting contracts of up to US$100,000 equivalent, goods contracts of
up to US$300,000 equivalent and works contracts of up to US$1 million equivalent for
which detailed documents evidencing expenditures will be reviewed by the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) and made available for the required audit as well as to Bank
supervision mission. Disbursements against contracts exceeding US$50,000 equivalent
for individual consultants, US$100,000 equivalent for consulting firms, US$300,000
equivalent for goods and US$1.0 million equivalent for works would be made against
normal documentation.
4.20  Retroactive Financing. The City has requested, and the Bank has agreed to
include retroactive financing from June 1, 1996 to help defray some of the costs of
preparation which the city has incurred. Expenses incurred before the date of loan
signature shall not exceed $3.1 million (10% of the total amount of the loan). Retroactive
financing for previously procured contracts would only be provided where procurement
fully complied with Bank standards.
4.21  The project completion date will be June 30, 2000 and the closing date will be
December 31, 2000.
The proceeds of the loan (in US$ million) would be disbursed as shown below:
Table 4.6
Disbursement of Loan Proceeds
US$ million
CATEGORY                          AMOUNT OF LOAN  % EXPENDITURES TO
ALLOCATED  BE FINANCED
A. Technical Cooperation                         11.3  100% of expenditures
excluding any taxes
B. Civil Works                                    9.6 80% of total
C. Goods                                          5.2  100% of foreign
equipment, 80% of local
equipment
D. Subloans                                       1.8  100% of subloans
F. Unallocated                                    3.2
(contingencies)
TOTAL                                           31.0



35
Table 4.7
Annual and Cumulative Disbursements
Bank's Fiscal Year
(US$ million)
FY98       FY99    FY2000
Amount                   4.0       13.4        13.6
Cumulative Amount        4.0       17.4       31.0






ST. PETERSBURG CENTER CITY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
5. SUSTAINABILITY, BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1   Summary. The Preparation of a viable plan would have major benefits for St.
Petersburg. The Project would provide a flexible blueprint for conserving and restoring
the city's major economic asset, its historic core. It would point out ways where cost
recoverable public financing of infrastructure and public services could be used to
facilitate private sector implementation of building rehabilitation in a sensible regulatory
framework. The restoration would stimulate tourism and business development, creating
employment and raising incomes. The restoration of the central city would also enhance
St. Petersburg's cultural development. Increases in property value, improvements in
infrastructure and amenities and the upgrading of housing would improve the living
conditions of existing residents. City officials and residents widely recognize the
importance this restoration would have for the city's future, for they have consistentlytold
Bank missions and others that "the restoration of the historic area is St. Petersburg's most
importantpriority." The Federal governmentalso views the project as a demonstrationfor
other cities in Russia on center city rehabilitation, regulation, social assessment and
promotion of private investment.
5.2   Cost Recovery. The city's weak financial position requires that investment
projects include provisions for self- financing and for cost recovery. The table below
shows the specific arrangements proposed in the project for recovering costs. The city
will use the project as a training exercise in experimenting with new forms of cost
recovery that could later be generalized to other parts of the city. The city shall submit to
the Bank. not later than December 31. 1998. a report on adoption of cost-recovery
measures for the investments financed under the Proiect.
Table 5.1: Cost Recovery
Component                   Recovery From               Terms and Conditions
1. Technical Cooperation    Future Projects and investments    Over long term
2. Pilot Schemes
Block 130                  |



38
Heating Subproject               from tariffs and cost savings     tariffs in line with present
commercial and residential heat
tariffs. Medium term plan to
reduce operating subsidies on
heat supplies to 0 in Year 2003.
Pedestrian Mall & Soil Removal   from leasing of land for pavilions    Market leases based on
evaluation at the time that the
property is leased.
Nevsky Prospeki UJpgrading        Increased lease fees             City plans to increase lease fees
by 10% or US$9 per square
meter to businesses located on
Nevsky Prospekt
Small Projects                    most subcomponents would be      short term
recovered through the sale or rental
of project facilities at market prices
Dumskaya Ulitsa Infrastructure   land sales                        land to be auctioned with
reserve price equal to cost of
infrastructure plus interest
Special Housing Fund              repayment of loans from developers  market rate (approximately
16%). Medium terrn loans    l
Elderly Housing                   sales of units                   price to be competitive with
prices on secondary market
(presently US$475/m2).
Kapella Courtyards                leasing of commercial and other  market leases for 49 years.
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ sp ace_                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Cultural Fund                    replaces future budget from central   no cost recovery planned
government                       (funds provided as central
government grants)
5.3    Economic, Financial, Social and Cultural Benefits of Center City
Rehabilitation. Rehabilitating the center city would provide financial and economic
benefits due to growth in tourism, in commercial activities, and in construction. It would
provide social benefits through amenities to residents, and improved services and
housing. Cultural benefits would be derived by rehabilitating historic buildings and
monuments. In addition to these separate benefits, combining activities into a
coordinated and coherent program should have a synergistic effect beyond the value of
each individual benefit service by incentivating and generating private investment.
5.4    The table below identifies specific benefits and beneficiaries of center city
rehabilitation, grouped into the three major types of benefit, cultural, financial, and social.



39
Some benefits that have multiple impacts (financial, social and cultural) are listed
according to their main impact. It also lists the specific benefits that could be quantified to
measure returns. The ex-ante measurement of these benefits would be done during the
project in examining specific alternatives for a priority investment program.
Nature of Benefit             Beneficiaries                  Measures
Financial:
Increased tax revenues        City Budget                    Sales tax
Property tax
Income taxes
Increased property sales and  City Budget                    Rental payments
rental income
Income from sale of property
Improved efficiency of city   City Budget                    Reduced operating costs
operations
Introduction of new methods of   City Budget                 Identification of new sources and
financing                                                    potential revenue
Long term employment          Companies, employees           Amount of activity generated
Increasedtourism              Business people                Amount of business activity in
the center city
Tourists
Number of tourists before and
after
Increases in property values  Property owners including the  Before and after analysis of
city                          property values
Construction employment       Construction companies,        Amount of activity generated
employees
Demonstration of lower price  Owners                         Number of new rooms
hotel altematives
Tourists                      Profitability
Price structure
Social:
Improved housing              Current residents              Comparison of amount and
quality of housing before and
New residents                 after the projectl



40
Nature of BenefIlt            Beneficiaries                Measures
Increased involvement of      Participants                 Number of organizations and
govemmental organizations, non-                            people in the process before and
governmental organizations and                             after
citizens in the capital budgeting
process
Reduced electricity consumption   Ratepayers               Energy consumption, output of
and improved street lighting                               new street lights
City budget
Improved traffic management    Users                       Travel times
Reductions in air pollution   People in center city        Air monitoring
Cultural:
Preservation of monuments     Residents, tourists          Number of monuments restored,
preserved
Generation of non-budget      Cultural organizations,      Amount of revenue generated
revenue by cultural organizations  government, residents, tourists
5.5    Specific Benefits of Project
(a)    Technical Cooperation. The project is an essential element leading to a
program of Center City Rehabilitation. It would assist the city in
establishing a flexible strategy of developing its assets in an economy that
will be largely driven by market forces. It will focus on identifying and
preparing feasible projects to provide the specific public goods -- basic
infrastructure for example -- that will generate private sector development;
and it will assist in developing the regulatory and institutional framework
that will facilitate private development and operation of facilities. In
addition to substantial non-quantifiable benefits, the project will have
economic, social and financial benefits through the development of pilot
projects.
(b)    Pilot Schemes. Each of the pilot schemes was analyzed in order to assure
that benefits were at least sufficient to justify the public expenditures
required. Only part of the benefits for each pilot scheme was quantified
and measured. Once the threshold for economic feasibility was reached,
the quantification of these other benefits would serve to raise the economic
rate of return higher than the threshold level. The table below lists the



41
pilot schemes, the measured economic benefits and economic rates of
return with these measured benefits. It also lists other benefits, both
quantifiable and unquantifiable, that would enhance this minimal
economic rate of retum, along with the beneficiaries of both quantified and
other benefits.
5.6    Economic Analysis of Pilot Schemes
Pilot Scheme        Quantified       Economic    Other benefits         Beneficiaries
beneflt          Rate of
Return
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (ER R )
A. Block 130
Heating Plant       fuel savings,    16%          Tariff revenues,      City budget
Avoided capital               comfort of residents,
repair                        additional incentive for  Residents
private rehabilitation
investment, Improved   Private investors
management
arrangements         Private
(contracting of private  operators
______________                  ____________   operator)
Pedestrian Mall &   Rental income    24%          Avoidance of health   City budget;
Soil Scraping                                     hazards; Income and    residents,school
employment; Increased  children and
property, VAT,       hospital patients,
corporate and personal  shops renting
income taxes         space and their
employees, city
residents and
tourists
Elderly Housing     Purchase price    21%         Improved housing and   Elderly
related amenities;   residents;
Incentives to        developers, city
rehabilitationof     budget
existing buildings
Total Block 130                      20%
(Aggregate)
B. Nevsky Prospekt
Upgrading
Street Lighting     Electricity      23%          Public security       City budget
Savings                       improvements,public
amenities, improved    City Residents
Maintenance                   appearance, tourism



42
Savings                         increases, rent
increases, increased   Tourists
Avoided Capital                 commercial activity
Repair                          (increasing incomes,    Businesses in
employment, taxes),    area
Incentives for
investment             Owners of
commercial
space (including
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   city)
Other investments    Increased          22%           Improved access,        City budget,
(signs, ramps,        commercial rents                traffic flow, increased    Handicapped &
sidewalks, traffic                                    tourism and             elderly residents
lights)                                               commercial activity,    and tourists,
investment incentives    Businesses, Car
and public
transport riders
Total Nevsky                            22%
Upgrading                               (Aggregate)
C. Small projects     Rental income     35%           Tourism increases       City budget,
leading to increased   Operators of
taxes, employment and   concessions,
incomes                tourists
D. Infrastructure    Infrastructure     13%           Higher price for land    City budget,
on vacant site       fees                             and faster sale,        businesses,
increases in           residents and
commercial activity,    tourists
incentives for
investment
E. Kapella            Rental income     15%           Increased property,     City budget;
Courtyards                                            VAT, corporate and      residents, shops
personal income taxes,  renting space
increased commercial   and their
activities             employees, city
residents and
tourists
F. Special Housing    Loan repayments  14%            Improved housing,       City budget,
Fund                                                  incentives to           Existing
development            residents and
developers
G. Cultural Fund                        N/A           More efficient          Federal budget,
operation by federal   residents,
institutions           tourists, students



43
Total Pilot Schemes                 20%
(Aggregate
ERR ) __ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _   _
5.7    Environmental and Social Aspects.I The Engineering Loan is rated "B"
regarding environmental aspects. Possible environmental issues included soil
contamination, solid waste disposal, air emissions, traffic noise, and ground disturbance
in the course of limited civil works undertaken through pilot projects. These issues were
examined during the preparation of the project and a mitigation strategy has been
designed. For example, additional soil removal on Block 130 was included due to the
contaminated soil in existing open spaces. There is a clear need for a comprehensive City
Center Environmental Assessment and Strategy for purposes of developing and
implementing the future Center City Rehabilitation Investment Project. The
environmental assessment would be undertaken as part of feasibility studies included in
the technical assistance component of the project.
5.8    Professional sociologists carried out comprehensive surveys of the population of
Block 130 and Kapella Courtyards. They found extreme heterogeneity of living
conditions between residents that live in communal apartments (46% of 3000 residents in
Block 130) and those that live in individual apartments (54%).2 Both studies noted the
generally low paying capacity of most residents, and the existence of extremely poor
living conditions of those living in communal apartments. They also noted that the
majority of communal apartment residents were eager to move to an individual apartment
even though it would be outside of the center city,3 though some had unrealistic demands
regarding the quality of new housing. A number of rooms in communal flats are vacant,
and some 20% of registered residents of Block 130 are not actually living in the space
allotted. Other deficiencies in Block 130 include the absence of elevators in the
buildings, which meant that some elderly residents had not left their apartments in years.
Both social reports concluded that "relocation [for existing residents] is the only chance
of getting out of a dead-end housing situation." Based on these findings and on
interviews with real estate developers, the City decided to include: a) the experimental
For a more detailed discussion of the social aspects of the project, see Ayse Kudat's Socal Assessment,
attached as Annex 14.
2An often quoted statistic for the whole of the center city is than about 60-70% of residents live in
communal apartments. The smaller percentage in Block 130 probably reflects the fact that many of the
communal apartment dwellers have already relocated.
Indeed many residents of communal apartments have been on the waiting list for an individual apartment
for decades.



44
Special Housing Fund to encourage voluntary relocation and b) the construction of a
building for elderly housing on Block 130.
5.9    The team also reviewed the City's policy regarding relocation. Existing
occupants have strong property rights. The City is extremely reluctant to engage in
relocating tenants involuntarily, even in situations where a few "holdouts" have prevented
the rehabilitation of an entire building. Though relocation practices are congruent with
Bank policy, the regulations are not very clear regarding relocation procedures and
policies. For this reason, specific relocation procedures were agreed to at negotiations
and are reflected in the supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement. The City has also
initiated work to formalize policies. A draft policy statement is available in Annex 9.
The General Consultant would review relocation issues and provide recommendations on
the formalizing of a policy. The City has agreed that not later than three months prior to
the commencement of resettlement activities under the Special Housing Fund to furnish
to the Bank a policy statement defining principles and procedures applicable to the
relocation of residents, from buildings requiring major rehabilitation in the center of the
city using the Special Housing Fund. The City has also agreed that it shall carry out
any resettlement in accordance with principles and guidelines agreed with the Bank and
pursuant to a time-bound action plan. satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be prepared on
the basis of the guidelines and furnished to the Bank not later than three months prior to
the expected date of the proposed resettlement.
5.10   Summary of Risks. The Central City InvestmentProject would be a complex
undertaking, requiring solution of difficult technical, institutional, financial and social
problems. It is precisely to reduce these risks that a prudent step-by-step approach is
recommended in which an Engineering Project is implemented first in order to carry out
studies, initiate regulatory change, build capacity and test approaches. In addition, major
policy shifts at either the central government or the city level may reduce the desire of the
Government to promote private investment, to borrow for St. Petersburg, and/or to work
withthe Bank. Althoughthe risk of major reversals in the move to markets appears to be
lessening gradually, the situation will remain tenuous for some time to come. Finally, the
project contains substantial technical assistance. Implementationof technical assistance is
especially problematic in other Bank-financed projects. Poor implementation of this
technical assistance will make it difficultto justify the follow-on investments. However,
implementationof the technical assistance in the Housing Project (the predecessorto this
project) has gone well, due to a committed counterpart agency and well-prepared
consultants who are drawing on substantial local expertise. These arrangements would be
repeated here.
Residents of communal flats cannot privatize their individual rooms unless all the other occupants of the
communal apartrnent agree; however, in all other respects they have the same rights as residents of
municipally owned individual apartments, in that they have the absolute right to occupy the apartment
along with their family.



45
5.11   The project poses the following specific risks:
(a)    Administrative. The St. Petersburg government is a large, complex
bureaucracy with many organizations involved in the success of this
project. These organizations must participate in the planning process and
they must also contribute to an atmosphere that makes development
attractive. Each of these organizations has its own priorities and
objectives. They also have different views of the solutions to the problems
of the central city. Moreover, the bureaucracy includes people who do not
understand, or are not committed, to reform. If these forces cannot be
focused to solving the problems constructively, the project may fail. The
Governor has recognized the importance of bringing these elements
together by personally chairing the commission responsible for providing
the policy direction for the project.
(b)    Financial. The city's financial situation may make it difficult to provide
the necessary counterpart funds; however, it is unlikely that obtaining
these funds will be impossible as the project will have high visibility and a
high priority. But, if the city's normal operations are severely crippled or
the tax burdens become excessive, the success of the project will be
jeopardized. The center city does not operate in a vacuum. If the rest of
the city is in serious financial trouble, incentives for private investment in
the center city will be seriously reduced. The city is attempting to deal
with these problems through a program of municipal financial
strengthening funded by the EBRD.
(c)    Market. The success of the project depends heavily on stimulating private
investment in the center city. Historic preservation is expensive and risky.
Even ordinary rehabilitation is subject to high costs and uncertain returns.
The uncertain political situation in Russia is a negative influence on
investment. Lack of financing for private investors could also prove to be
a critical problem. The Housing Project includes a component to stimulate
this area of investment by private banks but it is too soon to evaluate the
results. Moreover, there may simply be a lack of demand for facilities at
the prices necessary to support rehabilitation of a great many of these
structures. This is why the project takes a broad approach in which center
city rehabilitation is viewed as an opportunity to stimulate tourism and
commercial activity that will provide income to residents. Increased
economic activity will in turn stimulate the market and provide the means
for increased investment.



46
(d)   Legal. The rights to property are still under development in Russia and in
the city. Issues include providing full ownership rights, the timing of the
transfer of property rights so that they can be used as security for
borrowing and the rights of current occupants of property. St. Petersburg
has made satisfactory progress on the regulatory action plan for the
Russian Federation Project. The Center City Rehabilitation Project will
provide additional assistance to the city for developing appropriate
legislation. Other donors, including USAID, Sweden, and TACIS are also
active in this area.
(e)    Social. Although the project has built in significant safeguards to protect
tenants during voluntary or involuntary relocation and Russian legislation
provides strong protections of its own, resettlement always has an element
of risk. Specific relocation procedures to mitigate these risks were agreed
at negotiations and incorporated into the legal agreements including: (i) a
supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement detailing resettlement policies
and procedures; (ii) a covenant requiring a resettlement action plan, which
must be agreed to by the Bank; and (iii) availability of an ombudsman to
resolve any disputes that might arise under the Special Housing Fund.



ST. PETERSBURG CENTER CITY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1   Conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   Hiring of the General Consultant (para. 2.9).
(b)   Signing of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement (para. 4.4).
6.2   Conditions of disbursement:
(a)   Opening of the Special Housing Fund account (para 2.16) (for
disbursement of the Housing Fund Subcomponent).
(b)   Adoption of the Housing Fund Operational Manual by the City, approval
by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Construction, and
transmittal to the Bank (para 2.18) (for disbursement of the Housing Fund
Subcomponent).
(c)   Establishment of the Inter-Ministerial Grant Approval committee (for
disbursement of the Cultural Fund Subcomponent) (para 2.28).
(d)    Adoption of an Operating Manual acceptable to the Bank (for
disbursement of the Cultural Fund Subcomponent) (para 2.28).
(e)   A resettlement action plan for Kapella Courtyards (for disbursement of the
Kapella courtyards Subcomponent) (para 2.26).
6.3   Covenants:
(a)   The city has agreed to submit detailed plans acceptable to the Bank before
the elderly housing component is implemented covering disposal of units,



48
recovery of costs, building operations and recurrent cost financing, and
monitoring the continued operation and use of the building (para. 2.24).
(b)   The Government of St. Petersburg would prepare a detailed plan and
timetable by December 31, 1997, for undertaking specific improvements
in its overall financial management (para. 3.6).
(c)   The Government of St. Petersburg has agreed to: (i) not later than
February 1, 1997, open a Project Account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank with an initial deposit equivalent to
US$100,000; and (ii) thereafter maintain and replenish said account at the
beginning of each month to ensure that adequate funds are available to
meet expected local expenditures for the next two months (para. 4.6).
(d)   Not later than three months prior to the commencement of resettlement
using the Special Housing Fund, the City shall furnish to the Bank a policy
statement defining principles and procedures applicable to the relocation
of residents, from buildings requiring major rehabilitation in the center of
the City under the Special Housing Fund (paras 2.19 and 5.9).
(e)   The City shall carry out any resettlement in accordance with principles and
guidelines agreed with the Bank and pursuant to a time-bound action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be prepared on the basis of the
guidelines and furnished to the Bank not later than three months prior to
the expected date of the proposed resettlement (paras. 2.21, 2.26 and 5.9).
(f)   The city shall submit to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1998, a
report on adoption of cost-recovery measures for the investments financed
under the Project. (para 5.2).
(g)   The government of St. Petersburg has agreed to maintain the Project
Implementation Unit during project execution.
(h)   The government of St. Petersburg has agreed to prepare a mid-term review
by December 31, 1998 for review by the Bank.



Annex 1
SECTORAL CONTEXT
St. Petersburg History and Economy
1.    Peter the Great founded the City of St. Petersbur. in 1703 to be the capital of
the Russian Empire, its window on the West, and its admiiListrative, cultural and
intellectual center. Largely ignored during the Soviet era, St. Petersburg escaped
socialist-style physical redevelopment and its 54 square kilometer historic center
remains a masterpiece of architecture and its finest treasure. Designated by UNESCO
as a World Heritage site, the city has some 3000 registered historical and architectural
monuments, and some 900 cultural institutions (museums, libraries, theaters), including
the world famous Mariinskiy (former Kirov) theater and the State Hermitage Museum.
The historical center has one of the largest and most beautiful urban architectural
ensembles in the world, with its canals, churches, estates, palaces, public buildings and
monuments. However, St. Petersburg is more than a historic monument; it remains a
living and vibrant city. Some 800,000 people reside in the center, and one million
people have their workplaces there.
Historic Legacy
2.    St. Petersburg is a manifestation of the vision of its founder, Peter the Great.
Much influenced by Amsterdam, Peter's initial design for the city included a system of
canals like Amsterdam, but on a grand scale suitable for an imperial power. The city
began with the construction of the Peter and Paul's fortress on the strategic inlet of the
Neva River. The city was designed through architectural plans by the foremost
European architects of their time. These included Domenico Trezzini, a Swiss who
designed Vassilevski Island using European grid patterned city layout, and Leblon, a
French architect who completed a general plan for a fortified city in the classical
tradition. Succeeding architects included Schutter, Rastrelli, Cameron, Rinaldi,
Zakharov, Voronikhin, Monferran, Rossi and others. Starting in the late 19th Century
and ending around 1914, the city experienced a construction boom. During this phase
mansions and palaces were built and expanded in the city. However, St. Petersburg has
always managed to preserve its grand design which includes expanses of open space,
canals and parks that are interspersed with monuments and public buildings. The
buildings and monuments include many rare examples of 18th century baroque and
19th century classical and jugendstil architecture.
3.    As the capital of the Russian empire for over 200 years until 1917, St.
Petersburg also functioned as the intellectual and artistic center of Russia. Legendary
figures such as Pavlova, GlinkaTchaikovsky, Pushkin Gregol, Dostoyevsky, and many



50
others produced their best works and performances in the city. Its achievements in
literature, drama, music, dance and visual arts are a legacy that lives today. St.
Petersburg's museums and libraries are endowed with unique collections of works of
art, historical documents and books attractive to scholars, specialists, tourists and
ordinary city residents.
4.    The 1917 revolution was an abrupt break with the past, and the Bolsheviks
moved the capital to Moscow. This was fortunate for St. Petersburg. Unlike Moscow,
there were no attempts to tear down the historic center in order to "modernize" it into a
truly "socialist" city. Most of the churches, architectural ensembles, and buildings
survived intact, through the wear and tear is noticeable in all structures.
5.    The city's finest moments and its indomitable spirit are embodied in the heroism
of its citizens during World War II. The people of St. Petersburg were subject to
artillery and air bombardment and endured a blockade of 900 days. About a third of
its population of over two million people died during the war. Despite the hardships
and danger, the citizens made heroic efforts to save and hide their art and treasures.
Though the city suffered considerable damage, it was reconstructed after the war and
some historic structures, such as the Hermitage Museum and the imperial palaces in the
suburbs, were masterfully rehabilitated.
6.    The historic center occupies 54 square kilometers, 10 times the size of Venice,
though only a small portion of the total city area of 1400 square kilometers. It includes
two islands (Vassilevsky and Petrovsky) and two large city districts (Admiralty and
Central). Within its boundaries are some 8000 urban properties, of which 5300 are
historic monuments and 2500 are classified as important architectural ensembles (i.e.,
academies, monasteries, etc.). The center includes some 900 cultural institutions
(museums, libraries, theaters) among its historic structures.
7.    Today this cultural heritage is under stress. During the last 100 years, there
was little rehabilitation and renovation of the historic buildings; and routine repairs and
maintenance have been neglected for decades. Architectural and historic monuments of
world significance are deteriorating rapidly. Nearly every day the local newspapers
document injuries caused by collapsing structures. Priceless books and works of art in
historic structures are seriously threatened by complex preservation problems and a
lack of resources. Damp air, flooded basements, and antiquated plumbing systems are
destroying collections stored in the hundreds of libraries, museums, and archives that
line the city's 86 canals.
The City's Economy
8.    Like other cities in Russia, St. Petersburg's economy has suffered in the
economic transition. Large industries have collapsed, leading to reductions in



51
employment and in the City's revenue base. Manufacturing output decline more than
50% since 1990 and capital investment by 60%. Cargo flows through St. Petersburg's
commercial port declined by nearly 70% because of strong competition with ports in
Finland and other Baltic countries.
9.    However, there are early signs of economic recovery. The city witnessed
energetic growth of market-oriented industries (e.g., banking, small business,
intermediary services, etc.). The performance of retail trade and transport cannot be
reliably evaluated due to the importance of the newly emerging private sector,
including the informal sector. International trade has grown. For example, it
increased in 1994 by one third from 1993. Exports of machinery and equipment are
higher than the Russian average; and imports reflect the strong consumer market
economy.
10.   St. Petersburg is one of the leading cities in economic reform, especially with
regard to privatization. In 1995, non-state enterprises in the city employed over one
third of the workforce, produced over 40% of manufacturing output, and provided for
80% of retail and service turnover, and 60% of cargo motor shipments. It is estimated
that over 50% of employment by the end of 1995 was in non-state enterprises. In 1994,
the city had over 60,000 small businesses with 600,000 employees. Small businesses
are concentrated in services, trade, construction and science. Eight thousand enterprises
were registered during 1991-4 with foreign investment from 61 countries (with
strongest representation from the US, Finland and Germany).
11.   Analysts within the city have started to assess the city's economic prospects.
Their vision for the St. Petersburg of the future is that it will become a multifunctional
European city, preserving its role as a major scientific, educational and cultural center
for neighboring regions of Russia and for neighboring Baltic states. They note that it is
likely that there will be a further reduction of overall employment in the manufacturing
sector. However, they believe that overall economic growth in Russia will lead to
strong increases in transport turnover, trade, and services. Given St. Petersburg's
cultural assets, increases in both domestic and international tourism can be expected.
To date, international tourism has increased by 300% since 1990, though domestic
tourism is down due to the economic depression. St. Petersburg will remain an
important center for higher education, research and development, both in Russia and
internationally.
Tourism
12.   Cultural tourism will be of special significance to the economy of the historic
center. A 1994 study was financed by the European Commission (Tacis) on the
Privatization of the Tourism Industry. The study concludes that St. Petersburg has the
potential to attract visitors from all over the world in increasing numbers, but to



52
achieve this, it needs to improve its infrastructure, including the creation of a modem
and efficient hotel industry. Presently there are 150 overnight accommodation facilities
providing 32,000 beds. Two thirds of this capacity is contained in 36 hotels. There are
three five starts hotels, much fewer than in other European cities. There are four mid-
class hotels, some of them rather large. Although these have satisfactory locations and
are popular with groups, business travelers and individual guests usually prefer higher
quality and standards. Some 19 hotels are low tariff. Most have poor locations and
obsolete equipment. Although they presently have high occupancy rates (as a result of
domestic demand and a lack of competition), some are considered unlikely to survive in
the longer term unless they can be improved.
13.   The study points out that the hotel industry suffers from a lack of investment
capital, a low level of know-how and professional training, and inadequate
infrastructure for guests. Though staffing levels are high compared with international
hotels, customer service is low. The city particularly lacks moderately priced hotels
with reasonable management in good locations. There is also a lack of clean and simple
but well-run hotels for lower budget visitors. The city plans to encourage competition
in order to provide incentives to existing privatized hotels to improve service.
14.   The city also would like to provide professional tourism promotion. The
German Government plans to finance a study to examine alternatives.
Demographics
15.   The economic transition has had a dramatic effect on demographics. In 1993-4,
St. Petersburg had the lowest birthrate in Russia and one of the highest death rates.
The death rate has exceeded the birth rate since 1989. The number of deaths increased,
and the number of births decreased steadily until 1993. In 1995, there were 34,000
births and 76,000 deaths. Life expectancy is low, especially for men (58.1 years), and
migration from the city was higher than immigration from 1991-3. Immigration
rebounded in 1994 to a positive balance.
16.   The population of St. Petersburg is presently 4.75 million. The population is
aging. Twenty five percent of the population is elderly, including 35 % of center city
residents. About 50% of the population is in the labor force. Open unemployment is
low, around 2%, but expected to rise as privatized industries actively restructure and
shed labor. Underemployment is a problem in St. Petersburg, as elsewhere in Russia,
and 400,000 people at the beginning of 1995 (1 % of the labor force) were listed as
working part time or on administrative leave.



53
Social Hardship
17.   The collapse of production and investment had led to social stress and a sharp
decline in living standards for the majority of the population. Despite the economic
decline, real average incomes started to increase in 1994. In 1994, per capita income
increased by 4.6 times (in normal terms), while prices increased by 4 times overall and
the consumption basket prices increased by 3.7 times. Average income increases were
due to a surge in business activity, especially in enterprise profit sharing and from
finance and property operations. However, the gap between the rich and the poor
increased sharply. In 1994 the ratio of average incomes of the wealthiest 10% to the
poorest 10% reached 16.2 (compared to 15.1 in Russia as a whole.) Wages are highest
in management, procurement, construction, and distribution; and lowest in
manufacturing, education, culture and science. Sociological surveys show some
anomalies. For example, the percentage of household income that was spent on food
sharply increased with price liberalization in early 1992 to reach 88% of household
income; however, since then it has fallen to 58% of income (mid 1994, the latest
statistic available).






Annex 2
Sector Context
Housing and Infrastructure
General Considerations
1.    The housing and infrastructure of the historic center is old and poorly
maintained due to lack of funds and, in the case of infrastructure, unsuitable designs.
The ground water level in the area is high, the soil is corrosive and carries stray
electric currencies aggravating the corrosion problems of water, sewerage, gas and
district heating networks.
2.    Poor maintenance has led to numerous service disruptions and waste of water
and heat energy and has created hazardous conditions due to gas leaks and frequent
explosions. Heat and water consumption are 2-3 times that of comparable districts in
Western Europe. This is only partly attributable to the poor condition of the networks.
Buildings have very high consumption due to a lack of metering and automatic controls
and appropriate pricing.
3. Rehabilitation of infrastructure in the city center is expensive due to difficult
excavation conditions since the infrastructure is located in congested streets and often
under structures of historical value. Therefore, special installation techniques (inner
pipe insertion or internal lining of existing pipes, horizontal drilling, etc.) should be
used. The utility companies estimate that the approximate rehabilitation cost of piping
networks in the area would be about one million US$/km. About 20% of gas piping
(200 km), 20% of water and sewage piping (480km) and 100% of district heating
piping (500km) would need to be rehabilitated during the next 10 years.' The cost of
the rehabilitation would thus be approximately US$120m/year, representing an annual
cost of US$6/m2 per each square meter of floor space in city center during the next 10
years.
4. The City provides subsidies to assist in maintaining the existing housing stock and
provide utility services to the population. The Table below shows the amounts of
subsidies provided in 1995.
The Housing Project includes a component to reline waterpipes in the Central City. This is designed to
save sufficient treated water to more than accommodate new housing constructed under the project.



56
Total
amount of  Rent     Heating    Water      Gas         Energy
Millions   subsidies
of:       in 1995
Rubles    203,753    136,739  16,000      30,400     20,000      614
Dollars   43.8       29.4      3.4        6.5        4.4        .1
1. Even with the large amounts of subsidies allocated, the poor financial standing of
the utilities does not allow an adequate level of maintenance, thus leading to
unsatisfactory functioning of public utilities. High subsidies also provide disincentives
for buildings to organize condominium associations to contract for their own
maintenance. Starting February 1 of 1996 housing rents were increased by two times,
and household tariffs for heat and hot water supply - by 2.5 times. In September of
1996 the municipal governments increased payment again for water supply by 1.3 times
and for energy supply - by 1.4 times.
2. In accordance with the Resolution of the Government of Russia N 707, dated June
18, 1996 the cost of communal services paid by the population will reach the level of
full cost recovery by 2003. At the same time, targeted assistance is provided for low-
income families that are unable to pay the full cost of communal services.
Specific Services
Housing
3.   In 1995, St. Petersburg's residential stock provided an average of 19 square
meters per person. This is somewhat better than the average in Russia but only about
75 % of the average in industrialized countries. A particular characteristic of housing
in St. Petersburg, and particularly the housing in the center, is that a significant amount
of the stock was built before 1917. Most of this pre-Revolutionary stock has been
turned into "communal flats" or shared apartments. Typically, an entire family lives in
one room, and share a kitchen, toilet, and bathroom with other families in a once larger
apartment intended for a single family. The living arrangements are uncomfortable and
crowded at best. Maintenance within the apartment and in the building is severely
deficient. Many communal flats have leaks and vermin. Novels have been written on
the hardships and personal animosities that arise from life in communal flats. It is said
that communal flats comprises 12.5% of the housing stock in the city as a whole, and
accommodate 24% of the population overall and 60-70% of the population in the
historic center. However, the number of communal flats is decreasing both formally
and informally. The City's Housing Committee reported recently that the number of



57
communal apartments fell by 4.5% in 1995 alone. The municipal housing waiting list
contains 325,000 families, who are deemed to be living in substandard conditions, 17%
of households in St. Petersburg.
4. The St. Petersburg authorities are particularly concerned with the condition of
existing housing. They estimate that, in the city as a whole, only 39% of residential
housing is in good condition; another 50% is in satisfactory condition; and 11% is unfit
for occupation. The older stock in the center is in particularly bad condition. Many
buildings have never been rehabilitated or undergone comprehensive repairs. A
building survey in the historic center found 3170 buildings in need of rehabilitation.
Ten million square meters of housing (housing about 500,000 persons) in the city
center needs capital repair or reconstruction. One and a half million square meters of
housing should be repaired on an emergency basis. In addition some 400,000 square
meters of housing (representing about 20 thousand persons) are in such poor condition
that they cannot be repaired, and its inhabitants should be resettled.
5. Housing policies in the Soviet Union called for rapid industrialization and the mass
production of housing to accommodate new urban dwellers. Little Soviet-style
industrial housing is found in the city center however. Major housing reforms have
liberalized the housing industry and created the beginning of a private housing market.
New housing construction fell precipitously from 1989-92, but has since revived to
levels approaching those immediately before the transition. New construction in 1995
reached 1.14 million square meters, a 13% increase over 1994. New construction is
now being led by the emerging private sector. Three fourths of newly constructed
housing is purchased by families who have to pay its full cost.
6. The Bank supported Russian Federation Housing Project (Loan No. L38500 with a
Board Approval date of March 7, 1995) supports the creation of private housing
markets. Specific components include land development and construction finance in
five reforming cities (including St. Petersburg) and a national component to strengthen
the building materials industry. The project also includes technical assistance and
training and funding for project management. The land development component in St.
Petersburg comprises the servicing and subdivision of specific tracts of land outside of
the city center. This land will be sold through an auction process to private developers.
Thus far, land auctions have been successful and infrastructure provision is in process.
The private developers will build housing on the land and sell the housing on the
private market. The construction finance component comprises a line of credit to
accredited commercial banks. The banks will on-lend these funds to private investors
and developers for the construction and rehabilitation of modest housing that meets
eligibility criteria in terms of energy efficiency, size and type. In addition, the line of
credit may be used to rehabilitate historic housing in the center city of St. Petersburg
without regard to size limitations.



58
7. Economic liberalization of the housing and real estate industry has also led to the
conversion and upgrading of communal apartments in the central city into individual
dwellings. More than 300 private local real estate companies are active in the local
market. The process is to purchase an individual apartment elsewhere to relocate on a
voluntary basis each family in a communal apartment. Typically, the new individual
apartment has a floor area 1.5-1.7 times the floor area inhabited in the communal
apartment. In 1994, the cost of resettling tenants was estimated by private realtors as
$650-950 per square meter (in an old building) or US$10,200-11,800 per person (1994
prices). Realtors report that a professional agent spends about 4-10 days per family to
find suitable alternative accommodation. Typically, families are offered 5-6 apartments
before they will make a decision to accept the resettlement offer. Russian real estate
investors rank the time and cost connected with tenant resettlement as the major
constraint to rehabilitation, while foreign investors were more concerned about the
uncertainty of future city charges 2 The existing communal apartment is then repaired
and converted to an individual apartment, or, more commonly, to office space. A
considerable number of units have been upgraded in this manner; however reliable data
are not available on the extent of the process. Many buildings have some apartments
that have been upgraded and sold or leased to high paying tenants. Typically, there is
a mix of improved and unimproved apartments in a building, with the city continuing
to provide (inadequate) maintenance of common spaces. Although purchasing
individual apartments is feasible, obtaining enough apartments to permit private
ownership of the entire building is problematic. The scarcity of entire buildings that are
available is reflected in market valuations in the center city, in which private investors
typically put a premium of about 100% on the square meter value of a building that is
empty and ready for total rehabilitation.3
8.     Gas. All gas is supplied by Lengas, an employee cooperative that leases its
assets from the municipality under a long term lease. Under the lease, the purchasing
of gas from Lentransgas (Gazprom), billing, and operation of the system is the
responsibility of Lengas. The tariff setting is done according to federal decrees (based
on average federal costs) affecting the whole sector. The company's profitability
depends on maintaining an operational cost lower than the federal average, and on
other matters (lease negotiations, scope of maintenance works etc.). The company is
profitable. Routine maintenance is covered by Lengas but capital maintenance
(rehabilitation) and new investments come from the city budget. At this time Lengas
2 Foreign investors generally will not consider rehabilitating a building until it has been completely resettled.
3 The mean asking price for separate apartments in the center city in 1995 is estimated at $480-600/square
meter, with prices up to $1000 per square meter for apartments repaired under western standards. At the
same time, an unrepaired building cleared of tenants, with its inner walls demolished and trash removed, can
be sold for US$1200 per square meter.



59
sells gas to industry and power and heating plants (80%) and to households for cooking
and hot water preparation. Some 70% of the network assets and maintenance cost is
attributable to the household distribution.
9.    The gas distribution system has three pressure levels, 10 bar, 3 bar and 0.015
bar. Industry is served from the 10 bar and 3 bar pressure levels and housing mostly
from the 0.015 bar pressure level. It is the company's intention to eliminate the 0.015
bar distribution piping and connect all housing through individual pressure reducers to
medium pressure (3 bar) network (as in west European countries). All rehabilitation
that is now taking place is implemented according to this strategy. This will upgrade
the capacity of the distribution system to accommodate higher gas consumption. EC is
funding a rehabilitation study (ECU1.3m) for Lengas.
10.   Water and Sewerage. All water and sewerage services are supplied by
Vodokanal, which is a municipal company. The company is responsible for
rehabilitation of water and sewage lines. Construction of new installations, such as new
pumping stations and new major water and sewer lines is, however, managed by the
City Construction Department.
11. The major problems in water and sewerage networks in the city center are: a)
capacity deficit. Due to leaks and a deficit in pumping capacity, water pressure drops
during the peak load hours so that the upper floors do not get cold water4. This
problem is worse in the suburban areas where the buildings are higher, but it affects
also the upper floors in the city center5; b) numerous service disruptions due to old and
corroded piping. A substantial part of the city center piping was installed in the late
1800s and early 1900s; c) inadequate wastewater treatment capacity. Treatment covers
only 2/3 of the waste water output. There are some 400 open untreated sewage outlets
to Neva River of which about 200 are located in the city center area, many visible right
6
from the embankment between the statue of Peter the First and the Hermitage; and d)
20% of city center sewers leak and should be rehabilitated.
12. EC-TACIS has launched a comprehensive study of Vodokanal rehabilitation and
organizational restructuring. Finnish, Swedish and Danish foreign aid agencies have
financed training programs for Vodokanal personnel. German foreign aid has funded a
methodology study to eliminate the open sewer outlets in the city center. Vodokanal
The Hot water supply works since it is supplied from the district heating network.
5 Some relief to this problem is expected when the new pumping station "Parnass" financed from the proceeds
of the Bank's Housing Loan comes on line.
6 The Housing Project includes provision for a new collection system that will permit the closure of many of
these outlets.



60
has started a computerized network locator program under assistance from the Finnish
Ministry of Environment and a US company support.
13.  Heating. Forty two percent of the heating in city center is supplied to consumers
by Lenenergo from their three heat and power plants in the city center (district
heating), 57 % by Lentek from their medium and small size boiler plants and from some
autonomous heating systems (block or individual heating). The fuel for Lenenergo's
and Lentek's heat sources in the center city is gas. Lentek's boiler plants consist of
some 500 old coal fired boilers that have been converted to gas, achieving therefore a
low (50-70%) annual efficiency. There are only about 20 autonomous modem gas
boilers for individual building heating (designed for gas and achieving some 85-90%
annual efficiency).
14. The district heating supply in the city has been arranged technically in a special
way. Heat is supplied through a two pipe network directly to buildings in the city
center and to heat exchanger stations with two pipe secondary networks (7-70 Gcal/h)
serving large building groups in subdivisions outside the city center. The domestic hot
water is tapped at the buildings directly from the district heating circuit. This renders
the usage of corrosion inhibitor chemicals in such networks impractical and aggravates
the corrosion problem.
15. The technology used for underground district heating pipes consists of steel pipes
with concrete foam thermal insulation and a bituminous layer jacket. The pipes are
buried directly (without channel) in the ground. Due to high ground water, the channel
method (used elsewhere in Russia) would be impractical (flooding). The average life of
such pipes in the ground is about 11 years. Fortunately, in the city center, a substantial
amount of the network is located in the building basements where the conditions are
generally better than in the ground.
16. Lentek operates some 500 gas fired local boiler houses for individual buildings and
building blocks (57% of the city center's heat demand). The heat distribution systems
of these boilers are local and run mostly inside the buildings and thereby reducing
corrosion.
17.  Electricity. All electricity distribution in the city center is operated by
Lenenergo, a privatized joint stock company. The city center peak load is some 700
MW, and there is a latent deficit of transmission and distribution capacity in the area.
Some new capacity will be needed for a modernized center city. Should major
construction activity begin, Lenenergo would need to intensify its program of changing
the distribution voltage from the present 6 kV to the 10 kV standard of Western
economies.



61
18.  Street Lighting. Lensviet is a municipal organization that takes care of the
operation and maintenance of street lighting. Lensviet operates some 20,000 lighting
fixtures in the city center, 95 % of them are for street lighting and 5 % for decorative
lighting of some 100 buildings. In the city center, the total installed capacity of this
lighting is some 6 MW.
19.  Telephones. Telephone services are mainly owned and operated by St.
Petersburg Telephone Networks, a joint stock company owned jointly by the city
(43%), local banks (25%), employees (10%) and others. In October 1995 the city was
expected to sell a further stake, 10% of the share capital in an auction to private
investors. There are also three cellular companies and another private telephone
operator. St. Petersburg's telephone situation is expected to improve in 1996 when the
first stage (US$30m) of a US$60m program of St. Petersburg Telephone Networks will
be completed.






Annex 3
Sectoral Context
Real Estate
City Strategy and Description of Market
Summary of City Strategy
1.    The Government of St. Petersburg considers the rehabilitation of its historic
area to be its highest priority. The vision of its leaders is to restore and rehabilitate the
historic area to retain its present form, while making the city a lively center of
commerce, services, residences, culture, and entertainment. The goal is to complete
some major restoration works by 2003 in time for the 300th anniversary of the city's
founding. The City also hopes to be a serious competitor in selecting the site of the
Olympic Games to be held in the Year 2004.
2.    The cornerstone of the city's restoration strategy is to stimulate private
investment activity in the historic center. The private sector offers better prospects for
faster and more sustainable results in the rehabilitation of historic buildings, at least in
the short term. St. Petersburg has some successful examples of adaptive re-use of
historic buildings, including, for example the Nevsky Palace and Grand Europe hotels,
and the St. Petersburg Bank. Opportunities for private restoration are increasing. A
recent agreement was concluded between the Ministry of Culture of the Russian
Federation and the Governor of St. Petersburg to delegate more authority to St.
Petersburg's Committee on Historic Preservation in the preservation and maintenance
of historic landmarks -- including the privatization of historic structures of local
significance.
3.    However, thus far, the St. Petersburg authorities have promoted private
investment to foreign and domestic investors in an ad hoc manner. Results have been
slow in coming. It is now generally agreed that a comprehensive approach is required.
Such an approach will require a new flexible strategic plan for center city development,
an appropriate legal base, and a new financial policy.
4.    The city has made progress in all three of these areas. Regarding strategic
planning and financial services, the City's Committee for Finance and Economy has
completed preliminary work that will form the basis for a strategic plan; and they are
receiving support from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(EBRD) for technical assistance on financial policies and general investment strategies.
The work completed thus far is based on overall economic considerations, but lacks a
spatial dimension and any specific infrastructure and sectoral investment
considerations. In addition, USAID has started providing technical assistance to
complete a strategic plan for the whole of St. Petersburg based on an approach that



64
features: a) flexibility to modify the plan based on continuous feedback and b) public
involvement in formulating the plan. A major consulting firm has been contracted to
undertake this effort in association with local consultants previously contracted by the
city for strategic economic and planning work. The scope of work for the strategic
plan focuses particularly on issues concerning the economic base and transportation,
and will propose a series of projects that can be financed. The city hopes that the plan
will be used to activate public and private initiative and support investments with short-
term results. Regarding the legal bases, the City's Property Committee has sponsored
major legislative initiatives to improve legal rights including improvements on
information availability and documentation for these sites for city property (see
discussion on regulation below). The City's Committee on Urban Services has started
work on improving promotion plan of major sites for building rehabilitation.
Center City Real Estate Market
5.    Summary. Compared to Moscow, St. Petersburg has had limited experience in
major real estate development. St. Petersburg has lower demand for high quality
apartments, office space, retail, hotels and industrial facilities than Moscow. The city
administration had adopted a slow-growth approach to real estate development as a
means of protecting the city's historic character. Although the gap with Moscow
seems to be closing, many submarkets, especially the one for office is where Moscow
was three or four years ago. One of the main differences is that there seems to be little
speculation in St. Petersburg; no "bubble" effect took place. Overall, the markets
appear to be in relative balance, with demand slightly ahead of supply. Deals are
closed when an opportunity matches a specific demand, resulting in an uneven pattern
of opportunistic redevelopment of the central city.
6.    The center city real estate market is best reviewed in terms of its specific
submarkets. The box reviews demand and supply issues in several submarkets.
Submarket  Demand                                Supply
Office      Exceeds supply, developing slowly.   Absorption appears relatively rapid,
Demand in '96 estimated at 0.06-0.08   but data is poor. Prices for high end
million square meters. Demand highest  space are stable at $500-$800/square
for smaller spaces of around 100    meter for rents in prestigious locations.
square meters. Demand mainly from   New commitments are from 2-5 years.
large trading companies , foreign    Apartments often used as office space.
companies and financial institutions,  Financing for renovations (new
but increasing from Russian companies  construction is rare) typically by large
up-front rental payments by tenants.
Retail      Very sensitive to location and       Prices highest on Nevsky Prospekt (up
potentially more volatile. Tenants are  to $1000/square meter) where there are



65
varied, but local entrepreneurs     very high pedestrian and vehicle
dominate.                           counts. Leases are 5-10 years.
Residential  two tier market, affluent and       Highly segmented into pre-revolution,
affordable. Significant demand for  Stalin era, Krushchev era, new, and
apartnents to relocate families     fully rehabilitated. Absorption brisk.
presently in commnunal apartments.  Prices stable for 1.5 years. General
trend toward price increases for pre-
Revolutionary and rehabilitated
buildings; decreases for Stalin and
Khrushchev era stock. Higher end
apartments start at $1000 square meter
and go as high as $2500-$3000.
"Good" apartments are $600/square
meter and poor apartments are
$400/square meter.
Industrial   Modern industries want to be outside    Current stock is multi-story, low
the city center, near airport or in  ceiling, antiquated and on
Vyborgsky region. High demand for    contaminated sites. Significant
warehouses.                         industrial uses in center city. Quality
space is $200/m2; low quality -
100/m2 with short leases.
Hotels      Luxury hotels have good occupancies   Not many hotel development projects
and high rates, but high taxes and  are coming on line.
over-leveraging have reduced
cashflows.
7.    Feasibility. Profitabilities have been reported at 25-50% with a four year
payback, however reliable and consistent data are not available. Developers must
assume substantial risks that jeopardize returns, including uncertain site specifications,
high and unclear infrastructure costs, unclear property rights, difficult access to credit,
and uncertain timing to have all existing residents agree to relocate. In addition, the
lack of zoning in the City encourages negotiations with City officials for all phases of
development and permitting. These issues increase costs and tend to lengthen the
process, stretching payback periods and diminishing returns.






Annex 4
The Federally Targeted Program for Historic Center Development and
Preservation
1.    Work started in the mid 1980's on a major renovation program for St. Petersburg. The
original concept was to rehabilitate at a cost of US$15 billion equivalent all the infrastructure
and structures in order to preserve St. Petersburg in its present architectural form. The
collapse of the Soviet Union and the centrally planned and funded economy made this plan
untenable. The plan was revised several times to reduce the cost to the federal government and
to recognize governmental decentralization and emergence of a market economy. Although the
latest revision is still undergoing final reviews, the Federal Government provided some R 40
billion (US $9 million)' during 1995 for renovation of specific historic monuments.
2.    The revised version of the program includes the following goals2
a)    Preservation of the architectural, cultural and historic heritage as functioning entities,
not as museums
b)    Integration of St. Petersburg into the world economic system
c)    Improving the living standards of the population
d)    Providing the scientific and technical foundation for rehabilitation works
e)    Increasing private sector finance of reconstruction and rehabilitation
3.    The program anticipates rehabilitation in the historic center proper (including the center
city and the palace complexes in the suburbs) and development of major infrastructure systems
(e.g., seaports, airports, underground infrastructure and transportation) needed to support
historic area revitalization. This is clearly a very ambitious program (total cost of R 120
trillion or US$ 27 billion) that will be implemented over a long period (30 years).
Implementation of the first stage (1996-1998) is supposed to be financed with a federal
contribution of R. 550 billion (US$ 122 million), a city budgetary contribution of R 1190
billion (US $264 million) and non-budget funds (private investment and others of R 590 billion
(US$131 million ). The plan includes discussion of ways of raising non-budgetary investment,
including municipal bonds, contributions, foreign investment, private investment, leases and
1 This is the amount actually received. The amount budgeted was R 100 billion.
2 While the plan has not been completed, information has been provided to the Bank.



68
sales etc.; and points out that the most important loans from foreign investors (presumably
referring to the Bank) would be guaranteed by both the municipal and the federal government.
4.    The plan includes an economic analysis of the project in which benefits and costs are
identified and quantified. Benefits include: a) increased tourism revenues through a five fold
increase of internal tourism and three fold increase in foreign tourism; and b) increased tax
income to the city of 40%.
5.    The program is clearly ambitious in terms of its breadth and cost, especially
considering the critical shortage of public finance at both the federal and local levels. In
addition, the expert committee at the federal level that evaluated the program pointed out that
implementation arrangements are not defined sufficiently. However, many aspects of the
program are very encouraging: the program elaborates goals that are consistent with universal
human and cultural values (and the proposed Bank supported project), it recognizes the
importance of market based investment, it evaluates investments in economic terms, and it
demonstrates that the federal government is fully committed to historic area rehabilitation. The
Bank supported project should be viewed as an effort to assist the city in obtaining the
implementation capacity that it clearly needs to carry out this program in the future.



Annex 5
Financial Position of the City of St. Petersburg
Budget Deficits and City Debt
The city's short term debt position is worse than a typical western city because of the
unavailability of long term financing for capital improvements. The amount of principal required
to be paid in any year represents the city's total outstanding loans since the city does only short
term borrowing. The problem is especially serious because of the high interest rates - on the
order of 100 per cent - that the city pays on its debt.
At the beginning of 1996, the city had outstanding loans of US$254 million. In addition,
the city had accounts payable of US$ 210 million, or about 3 months' expenditures. By
September 1, the loan debt had risen to US$ 500 million. Interest on loan debt was US$ 130
million for the first six months of the year and expected interest for the full year is $270 million.
In 1995, interest on loans was $95 million. Interest is a major new expense for the city that it
cannot afford.
The city's debt has been growing rapidly and is now reaching crisis proportions.
Exclusive of debt repayment requirements, the city's deficit in 1995 was US$ 186 million while
a deficit of US$ 532 million is budgeted for 1996. It is likely that the city will reduce the 1996
deficit through reduced spending. Results from the first six months of the year indicate that both
revenues and expenditures are growing more slowly than planned. Officials in the city's Finance
Committee have indicated that a balanced budget is being prepared for 1997.
The 1995 deficit was 11 % of revenue while the 1996 deficit will be 24% of revenue
under the budget plan. City revenues in 1995 were about US$1.6 billion with US$ 2.2 billion
expected in 1996. Capital expenditures were US$200 million in 1995 and are expected to be
US$270 million in 1996.
City Revenue 1994- 1996
Table 1 shows the city revenue for the years 1994 - 1996. Actual figures are given for
1994 and 1995 and plans for 1996. Table 2 shows each source as a percentage of the total for the
year Table 3 shows planned and actual performance for 1996. In dollar terms, the city's
revenues grew by 6 % between 1994 and 1995 while expenditures increased by 19%. The city
has increased its reliance on local taxes (i.e., taxes for which the city sets the rates and defines the
base), while decreasing its reliance on the local portion of federal taxes. Revenue growth in 1996
is expected to be 36% with expenses growing by 45%. First half results show that the city was
about 4% short of its revenue target. The city's revenue position has been adversely affected by
the fall in local business and manufacturing activity, a reduction in the corporate tax rate,
diversion of 10 per cent of the income tax to the Russian Federation and the failure of wages to
keep up with inflation. The city has off-set this with increases in property and housing taxes.



70
Table 1
St. Petersburg Revenue
(US$ Millions)
Exchange Rate                                    2,266   4,650   5,000
REVENUE                                       1994      1995    Plan    Percent
Millions US$ equivalent                                         1996    of total
1996
SOURCES OF REVENUE
Tax Revenue
1. Direct taxes on profit, income, capital growth  776.2    869.0   912.8   40%
1.1. Corporation income tax (F)               503.8    605.7   518.4   23%
1.2. Personal income tax (F)                  272.4    263.3   394.4   17%
2. Taxes depending on the size of the wage fund  19.6  22.1    52.9    2%
3. Goods and services taxes                   270.9    352.6   431.0   19%
3.1. Value added tax (F)                      164.9    218.3   296.1   13%
3.2. Special tax on companies to financially support the  31.8    1.5   0%
most important industries (F)
3.3. Excises (F)                              63.3     84.0    102.4   5%
3.4 Other taxes on goods and services         42.8      18.4    30.9    1%
4. Property taxes                             50.7      124.6   266.4   12%
5. Natural resource fees (land tax, rentals, etc.)  37.5  42.3    43.6    2%
6. Other taxes                                146.7    107.9   207.0   9%
6.2. Tax for maintaining social services      58.2     99.9    147.1   7%
6.3 Others                                    88.5     7.9      60.0    3%
Non-tax Revenue                                                         0%
7. Income from the state property or state activity  28.4  53.4    69.3    3%
8. State property sale income                 0.5      26.4    28.1    1%
9. Fines                                                15.7    8.9     0%
10. Other non-tax Revenue                     18.6     23.7    72.5    3%
11. Federal budget fumds and other grants     224.4    24.5    169.8   8%
TOTAL REVENUE                                 1,573.7  1,662.0  2,262.4



71
Table 2
St. Petersburg Revenue
First Six Months Planned and Actual
REVENUE
Millions US$                             Plan 1996 Plan 1.01- Fact 1.01- % of Plan
1.07     1.07
SOURCES OF REVENUE
Tax Revenue
1. Direct taxes on profit, income, capital growth 912.8    367.2    392.3    107%
1.1. Corporation income tax              518.4    196.2    218.7    112%
1.2. Personal income tax                 394.4    171.1    173.6    101%
2. Taxes depending on the size of the wage fund 52.9  13.8  15.5      113%
3. Goods and services taxes              431.0    189.8    189.8    100%
3. 1. Value added tax                    296.1    127.3    124.2    98%
3.2. Special tax on companies to financially    1.5  1.5    9.0      595%
support the most important industries
3.3. Excises                             102.4    42.1      42.3      101%
3.4 Other taxes on goods and services    30.9     18.9      14.2     75%
4. Property taxes                        266.4    64.9      74.4      115%
5. Natural resource fees (land tax, rentals, etc.) 43.6  19.5  22.5   116%
6. Other taxes                           207.0    79.5      76.1     96%
6.2. Tax for maintaining housing stock and  147.1    65.8   63.8     97%
public services
6.3 Others                               60.0     13.7      12.2     89%
Non-tax Revenue
7. Income from the state property or state  69.3  39.9      45.6      114%
activity
8. State property sale income            28.1     11.6      10.5     91%
9. Fines                                 8.9      3.3       1.8       54%
10. Other non-tax Revenue                72.5     58.6      9.2      16%
11. Federal budget funds and other grants  169.8    42.4    17.1     40%
TOTAL REVENUE                            2,262.4  890.5    854.8    96%
City Expenditures 1994-1996
Expenditures increased by 19% between 1995 and 1994 and by 51 % between 1995
and the 1996 budget plan in dollar terms. It is difficult to compare years because the
budget presentation from year to year is different. Recently EBRD has been funding work
designed to improve the financial reporting of the city. Under this project, a major



72
international accounting firm has reformulated the city's financial statements for the
period 1993 - 1996. These statements provide for inflation adjustments and dollar
conversions as well as attempting to provide for consistent classification of categories of
expenses from year to year.'
Table 4
St. Petersburg Expenditures
(US$ Millions)
EXPENDITURE                                      1994      1995    1996    Percenta
ge of
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ 1 9 9 6
Exchange Rate                                       2,266   4,650    5,000 2%
1. Legislative + Executive bodies' operating costs  25.4   35.2    55.5      2%
2. Police, transport security, notary services, courts,   67.3  49.7    69.8  0%
lawyers' services, prosecution
3. Science and research                          1.6       1.3      5.4      1%
4. Industry, Power Engineering, Construction     8.9       18.1    23.2      0%
5. Agriculture                                   0.6       1.3      3.8      0%
6. Environmental Protection                      3.1       2.1      3.0      14%
7. Capital Budget                                306.6    218.3   377.9   3%
7.1 Equipment                                    23.4      46.8    90.3      10%
7.2 Construction                                 283.2    171.5   287.6    11%
8. Transport                                     105.6    175.4   306.0   26%
9. Housing and Public utilities                  357.8    571.1   716.6    14%
10. Education                                    290.8    284.1   400.1    2%
11. Culture and art                              31.3      37.4    62.7    l%
11.1 reconstruction + restoration                          13.6    17.5      0%
12. Mass media                                   0.3       0.3      1.4      10%
13. Health service                               183.2    202.3   269.6   7%
14. Social policy                                175.0    99.2    203.0   0%
15. Sport                                        1.6       4.8      11.7    0%
16. Elimination of Emergency Situation           1.8       3.0      4.5      10%
17. Others                                       50.8      144.3   280.3    100%
17.1 Net Loans                                   19.9      71.3    0.7
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                                1,556.2   1,848.0  2,794.5  _
'Unfortunately,the city has not yet approved these reports so the data cannot be used



73
Table 7
Subsidies
1994    1995    1996      Plan 1st   Fact lst
half 1996   half 1996
Exchange Rate                       2,266    4,650    5,000     5,000     5,000
1. Industry, Engineering, Construction                           10.7       10.1
8.9     18.1    22.5
2. Agriculture                                 0.8     2.5        0.9       0.1
3. Environmental protection           2.6      2.1     3.0         1.7       1.4
4. Transport, Communication         104.5   175.2   306.0       106.9      94.0
5. Housing and Public utilities     290.8   431.2   584.7       276.8     263.7
Total                             406.9    627.4   918.6   397.0       369.2
Financial Improvement Measures
Introduction. St. Petersburg must continue to make progress in improving its
financial management before considering additional loans from the Bank.. This will also
be necessary for the city to issue private debt at reasonable interest rates. Improvements
will be necessary in reducing the city's deficits, budgeting, financial reporting and cash
management. In most areas, the city has made a start but following the initiatives through
to completion will be difficult.
Measures regarding Financial Position.
The city has initiated deficit reduction efforts through both revenue improvement
and expenditure reduction. The governor has issued a forty four point program to
improving the city's revenues. This program requires that city departments and
committees complete and submit a number of reports and draft legislation before the end
of 1996.. The governor's program covers every aspect of revenues - taxes, leases, user
charges and gambling. The changes are expected to result in increased revenue of 1,020
billion rubles a year (almost US$200 million).
Some of the principal components of the program are:
i.    Modifying the law on tax privileges to bring in an extra 95 billion
rubles (US $ equivalent) a year.



74
ii.   Increasing leasing fees to bring in an additional 126 billion rubles a
year. (always include US equivalent)
iii.    Creating a road maintenance fund to bring in 400 billion rubles a year
iv.    Developing fees for trading to bring in 84 billion rubles a year.
In addition, the governor is pressing for expenditure reductions. Two areas that
are expected to be implemented in the coming year includes: a) the introduction of
contracting with private firms for specific tasks such as maintenance; and b) requiring
that utilities become financially self-sufficient.
Measures Regarding Financial Management
The city is working to improve its cash management and borrowing operations.
To do this adequately, it must: develop cash flow forecasts that will provide daily,
monthly and annual projections; improve its ability to produce accurate, meaningful and
timely financial statements; consolidate information on cash flow and debt management
for all city operations; and develop improved methods for budgeting and accounting for
debt and interest payments. The city is considering establishing a centralized treasury
function that will simplify this task but no final decision has been made.
The city has also been working for several years to improve its financial reporting.
For instance, reporting of debt changed in 1995 so it is no longer reported as a revenue.
The city meets Russian statutory requirements but these policies are not always consistent
2
with generally accepted accounting practices .
Budgeting is another area that needs attention. The city should produce
meaningful budgets that clearly distinguish between capital and operating expenses.
Budgets with large deficits that must be adjusted continually during the year, as now
happens, are not adequate tools for financial management. Formats should be agreed
upon between the legislature and the administration to ensure that everyone understands
what is taking place. The city has tried several formats and now needs to settle on a
uniform presentation. The city undertook an exercise earlier in the year under the EBRD
program that required city departments to produce budget and tariff proposals designed to
reduce the deficit but there was little follow up and the results have been slower than
expected. This may be due to the changes in the city administration.
2 as is the case with privatized enterprises and most municipalities in industrialized countries



75
In addition to the areas already mentioned, there are several areas in which the
city's financial reporting could be improved. These include:
I.    Monitoring short term loans of entities such as committees, departments
and districts.
2.    Recognizing accrued expenditures; in other words recognizing expenses as
they are incurred and reporting accounts payable on a regular basis
3.    Developing a financial system that will allow for independent audits of the
city's financial statements
4.    Clearly identifying capital expenditures as a separate item in the budget
using commonly accepted definitions. Equipment provided for new
construction and reconstruction are not considered capital expenditures.
5.    Recognizing interest and financing fees when they are incurred and
providing for full disclosure of the results of trading in the city's
securities.
6.    Identifying non-recurring revenue items
7.    Producing easily understandable reports to the public on a quarterly basis.






Annex 6
Terms of Reference for General Consultant
St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project
Introduction
1.    The city of St. Petersburg is planning a Center City Rehabilitation Project to be financed
in part from a World Bank Loan. The project will develop realistic plans for center city
rehabilitation that can be supported in the future through the Federally Targeted Program for
Development and Preservation of the Historic Areas of St. Petersburg, through the City's own
investments, through private investors and through loans from the World Bank and loans and
grants from other donors. The present contract is for consulting assistance in managing this first
center city project, performing engineering and construction management functions and carrying
out planning studies. The consultant will assist the city and the federal government to
successfully implement all aspects of the project.
Project Objectives
2.    Specific objectives for the Project include developing:
A.  a detailed strategic, action-oriented plan for rehabilitation and revitalization of the
center city, thus implementing the goals of the Federally Targeted Program for
Development and Preservation of the Historic Center of St. Petersburg;
B.  a program of public participation and information on urban planning and
investment;
C.  a center city rehabilitation project of about US$300 million that could be financed
by the Federal Government through the Federally Targeted Program for
Development and Preservation of the Historic Center of St. Petersburg, the World
Bank and other donors;
D.  completing design and engineering of public works for the first two years of the
project;
E.  a program to promote private investment in the center city;
F.   a number of pilot projects to demonstrate actions necessary for center city
development;
G.  the institutional capacity to plan, manage and support development.
Project Description
3. Table I shows the components of the project. They can be divided into two categories: 1)
pilot projects that will result in the construction of infrastructure and 2) technical assistance that
will assist the city in planning and managing change.



78
Table 1 - Indicative Cost and Financing Plan
Component                            Cost  Source of Finance
I. Technical Cooperation                    Bank Loan      Donors Municipality
Planning & Administration
General Consultant                     5.040          4.200               0.840
PIU                                    0.840          0.700               0.140
Leontiev Center                        0.600          0.500               0.100
Fund for Development of Real Estate Sector   0.240    0.200               0.040
Infrastructure Feasibility Studies     2.000                  2.000
Strategic Plan                         2.000                  2.000
Design and Engineering- general consultant   6.720    5.600               1.120
Institution Building and Regulatory Reform
Consultants                            6.000                  6.000
Subtotal                              23.440         11.200  10.000       1.800
II. Pilot Schemes
Block 130
Heating Plant                          2.817          2.254               0.563
Pedestrian Mall                        1.474          1.179               0.295
Soil Scraping                          0.500          0.400               0.100
Subtotal                               4.791          3.833               0.958
Nevsky Prospekt Upgrading
Street Lighting                        2.817          2.254               0.563
Signs, Cylinders, Maps                 0.106          0.085               0.021
Ramps, Handrails, Sidewalks            2.000          1.600               0.400
Traffic lights                         2.500                              2.500
Subtotal                               7.330          5.864               1.466
Small Projects Fund
Boat Landings (six)                    0.660          0.528               0.132
Other                                  0.340          0.272               0.068
Subtotal                               1.000          0.800               0.200
Dumskaya Ulitsa Infrastructure         0.500          0.400               0.100
Special Housing Fund                   1.750          1.400               0.600
Elderly Housing                        3.000          2.400               0.600
Total Pilots                          19.371         14.697               3.674
Physical & Price Contingencies         5.200          4.000               1.200
Total                                 47.011         29.897  10.000       7.114



79
Tasks
4.    There are three principal tasks in this contract.
a.    Assist the city and federal government in developing a strategy for central city
development; this will include assisting the city and Federal Government in reviewing,
preparing and implementing the Federally Targeted Program
b.    Prepare plans for follow on projects of about US$300 million. This task will
include:
* assisting the city and Federal Government in identifying and defining the project to
be supported with the World Bank loan
* completing all studies necessary for World Bank approval of the project
* completing detailed designs, engineering and procurement documents for the first
eighteen months of construction of the follow on project
* developing and implementing a simplified GIS system for the center city area.
* preparing plans and terms of reference for developing the institutional framework
necessary for the development of the center city.
* developing detailed relocation policies and plans.
C.    Provide all administrative support necessaiy to manage and implement this
project
Each of these is described in more detail in the following sections.
Complementary Work that is Underway or Planned
5.    Other contracts are scheduled that will provide services that will be useful in carrying out
this contract. These include:
Development of Strategic Plan for City Development
6.    Under a grant from the United States, this comprises developing a strategy for the spatial,
social and economic development of the entire city, including:
*  Determination of a Recommended Capital Budget
Extensive discussions with city government agencies, businesses and citizens will
determine needs for capital construction and develop a priority list.
*  Collection and Analysis of Existing Data



80
The consultant will identify sources of data needed for developing strategic and
detailed plans for redevelopment. This will include a data base showing where data
is available and a review of prior studies related to development and planning.
*  A study of the city's economic potential
Recommendations for improving the economic Ease of the city, for example, in
tourism, services etc., and the follow-on project should explicitly look at ways of
improving the city economy and the income of its citizens.
*  A study of the financial capability of the city for infrastructure development
This includes review of work done in cooperation-operation with the EBRD and the
recent city budget developments.
*  A general transportation plan for the city
This study will look at all modes of transport, assess transport and traffic
management needs and suggest short and long range plans with particular attention
to the center city.
*  Legal and regulatory framework
There are a number of on-going studies related to the legal framework for
redevelopment addressing issues such as zoning, relocation and property rights.
Recommendations for improving the process for issuing development permits
7.    This study will review the governmental processes necessary for obtaining permits to
redevelop and improve property and suggest improvements and reduce processing time.
Cadastre Work
8.  Several projects have looked at the city's requirements for developing a real estate cadastre
and pilot schemes have been implemented. A cadastre of the center city is presently planned to
be implemented with funding from the Swedish and Finnish governments.
Leontiev Center Consulting Assistance for this Contract
9.    This non-profit organisation has undertaken a number of planning studies for the city and
represents a significant resource for planning and economic data and information about the city
government. Under a contract funded by this loan, the Center will be available to assist the
General Consultant in carrying out it's functions. The particular tasks will be determined by the



81
consultant and the center with the approval of the city and the World Bank. Approximately 200
person months of assistance are expected to be available. These Terms of Reference indicate the
areas where the Leontiev Center is expected to be most helpful.
Detailed Analysis of Center City Utility Requirements
10.   Under a grant from the Government of Finland, a team of engineers is preparing a study
of the requirements for the infrastructure required for the center city development.
EBRD Financial Work
11.   The EBRD is financing several consulting studies designed to improve the city's financial
management practices and investment programming. This is designed to enable the city to enter
the long term debt market.
Tasks Under this Contract
Task 1   Develop a Strategy for Central City Development
12.  In co-operation with stakeholders including investors, local and federal government,
cultural groups and citizen groups, the consultant will do the following:
a.  Determine the need for additional data based on a review of the work funded by
bilateral donors described above. Recommend a work plan and budget for carrying out the
additional studies. Data collection will be done by the Leontiev Center. A separate budget is
provided for the data collection.
b.  Using the Strategic Plan for the entire city as a base, develop a land use, transport,
cultural and economic plan for the central city area that reflects the role of the center city in the
city economy. This plan should take the federally targeted program for the "Historical
Preservation of the Center City" into account as well as work done on the plans for general city
development. The consultant should carefully review work done to date and discuss current
planning activities with appropriate city committees and with the appropriate ministries of the
federal government. The plan should include short (1-3 years), medium (5 -10 years) and long
range objectives that can realistically be achieved given the resources available. It should be
based on reasonable, achievable socio-economic goals and realistic estimates of funds that can be
made available over the period. The plan should be developed in stages with considerable
opportunity for discussion and input from all interested parties. It should include a basic indicator
system to measure progress against the plan. The objective is to prepare plans that will be useful
to both the city and the Federal Government in implementing the Federally Targeted Program.
The Leontiev Center will assist in this effort.



82
c.  Identify alternatives for spatial and sectoral areas (e.g. infrastructure, zones, cultural
landmarks and assets) for follow on projects of about US$300 million in the center city. The
consultant should offer several alternatives for city and federal consideration including all of the
socio-economic, ecological, cultural, engineering and other information necessary for the city to
make a decision on elements to be included in the project.
* Identify spatial and sectoral areas and specific cultural landmarks with the greatest
immediate development potential and/or where assistance is urgent
* Estimate costs associated with the development of each area and landmark
* Quantify benefits associated with development of each area and landmark
This planning should include a simplified Geographic Information System that will comprise
several layers of data including financial, economic, land use, building conditions, identification
of historical structures and social data. To develop this system, the consultant will review the
existing system that is under development to determine if it can be useful for planning in the next
six months. If not, the consultant will prepare a budget for purchasing equipment and software
and training staff to use a simpler system.
d.  Identify key obstacles to development of private and public investment. Some may
be common to all areas while others will be specific to particular areas. Categorize as to ease of
solution (easy, moderate, difficult) and impact on development (high, medium, low). An initial
assessment of institutional problems is included as Annex 2. Subjects considered should include
each of the subjects identified in Annex 2 and the work done by the complementary technical
assistance. It should also include an assessment of infrastructure requirements that represent
barriers to development.
e.  Initiate and support remedial actions for dealing with each obstacle.
*  Provide cost estimates for remedial actions, including those that require additional
work on the part of the consultant.
*  At a minimum the consultant should plan to do the following:
i)   Describe approaches in other cities where redevelopment has been
successful, identifying best practices as they relate to St. Petersburg to the
extent possible.
ii)  Develop and implement training programs for city officials, business
people, cooperative-operative and condominium management groups and
general city residents. Programs should include carefully planned visits
to other cities with successful central city renovation programs.
iii) Identify possible non-governmental funding sources
iv) Recommend efficient but humane approaches to voluntary and
involuntary relocation that are consistent with Russian law and with



83
World Bank guidelines on involuntary relocation. Annex 3 provides a
draft relocation policy that should be discussed and amended as necessary
v)  Recommend project financing approaches that provide for payments from
users and developers to be related to benefits
vi)  Devise a system for updating an action oriented city development strategy.
This system will include capital budget items, legislative needs, citizen
participation, licensing and promotional activities.
a)  Design a process that provides an integrated framework for
incorporating participation and social analysis
b)  Define the roles of the local government, the federal government, the
Bank and other donor agencies, the private sector, citizen groups,
apartment and commercial space owners and tenants, and building
owners in the planning process
vii)  Develop a realistic program for infrastructure development that includes
construction of infrastructure either in the center city or in other areas
where additional infrastructure is needed to alleviate center city problems
viii) Develop a terms of reference and budget for development of a mass
property appraisal system
f. Study and recommend a list of cultural landmarks and assets that are of the highest
priority for further detailed review. Agree with the Federal Government and with the City on
this list. Based on a scope of work to be agreed with the federal government and with the city,
carry out detailed structural, operational and management reviews.
g. Review the federally targeted program for Preservation and Development of the Historic
Areas of St. Petersburg to ascertain if there are other high priority items that should be further
studied and possibly included in the follow-on project. Discuss these recommendations with
federal and local officials and carry out the studies necessary to include them in the follow-on
project.
h.   Agree with the city on items to be included in a follow on project to be financed
primarily by the World Bank.
*   Funds in the follow on project will be used primarily to provide the infrastructure
and support for landmarks and cultural assets that will give maximum benefit for the
development of the center city. Decisions should be made on the basis of economic
analysis undertaken in this project.
*   The project will also include funds for completion of legislative and institutional
changes identified or started under the current project.
*  Identify sources of financing for the project.
i) Bank
ii) City
iii)Federal



84
iv) Donors and lenders
v) User fees
Task 2 Prepare plans for a follow on project. Complete designs, engineering,
procurement documents and environmental analyses for the first
phase of the follow on project
13.   After the City, Federal Government and the Bank have agreed on the components to be
included in the follow on project, the consultant will:
a.  Prepare all remaining economic, financial, procurement, relocation, environmental
and engineering studies required for Bank appraisal for the follow on project, including detailed
recommendations for institutional and regulatory changes and project performance indicators.
b.  Complete all documents necessary for procurement of the first eighteen months of
construction work and consulting assistance under the follow on project. This should include
documents for pre-qualification of construction contractors. This task will not include
development of terms of reference for technical assistance under the follow project that would
disqualify the consultant from proposing on future work on that project. It will include reviewing
work done to date, discussing additional requirements with city officials and preparing Terms of
Reference for future work on improving the city's financial management capability, developing a
cadastre system, developing revenue systems and securing assistance in drafting regulations and
procedures related to development.
Task 3   Manage and Implement the Current Project
14.   The consultant will provide all staff support necessary for the city to plan and manage the
current project. This will include the following tasks.
a.    Design and provide construction management of pilot projects.
b.    Assist the city in the transfer, promotion and competitive sale of property in the
center city through development of marketing strategies and plans and necessary legal
documents. Plans would be developed for Block 130, the property known as Dumskaya Ulitsa,
and the properties associated with a series of courtyards known as "Capella" Courtyards, which
have been selected by the City as initial pilot areas for concentrated work.
c.    Develop relocation plans to conform with local laws and the World Bank
Operational Directive (Annex 4).
d.    Administer the Special Account under the supervision and direction of the
borrower. The Consultant shall: provide for servicing of the Special Account; prepare
documents for disbursements and payments to suppliers/contractors and arrange for periodic



85
replenishment of the Special Account. The Consultant will be responsible for: coordination of
the account, timely estimation of needed funds volume, office work, control of available funds
and timely disbursements. Authority for withdrawals and replenishment will be retained by the
borrower.
e.    Following World Bank procurement Guidelines, documents and procedures
advise the city on procurement as necessary. This work will entail the following:
* Develop a procurement manual including essential steps for Local and International
shopping and International Competitive Bidding actions. The manual should include
procedures and flow charts that describe each type of procurement action and provide
ample documentation packages for each type of purchase;
*  prepare packages for bidding including advertising, registering expressions of
interest, drafting bidding documents, reviewing and if necessary modifying
specifications;
*  organise workshops through its Training & Technical Assistance effort on bidding,
procurement and contract management;
- establish a "hot line" for designated personnel for general questions and case by case
problems;
?  assist the city to evaluate the bidding documents;
3  prepare recommendations on applications for all required CPIU approvals, including
"no objection" letters; and
-  for the selection of consultants for the Project prepare and/or review of Terms of
Reference (TOR) and the evaluation of proposals
f.    Ensure that proper accounting systems are in place that will accommodate both
this project and a follow on project. This will include responsibility to:
*  set up accounting system, documentation controls, and data bases covering financial,
technical and procurement information which will accord with the city's and the
World Bank's requirements
*  account for Components and Sub-components financed by the World Bank as well as
components financed through grant funds from donors such as USAID;
*  confirm supplier and consultant invoices, facilitate in the making of payments and
assist in preparing request for reimbursement and/or disbursement;
* report, as required, but not less than monthly on project disbursement and collection
performance in formats acceptable to the city, responsible federal ministries and the
World Bank;
* prepare requests for funds to the Government and the Bank;
*  prepare the Terms of Reference for the annual audit of the project, assist with the
preparation of the annual Audit and in any subsequent discussions with the Bank
concerning the Audit;
*  assist with any Government of Russia auditing requirements;



86
* supervise collection of repayments of subsidiary loans;
* maintain complete files, suitable for audit, of all documents supporting procurement
and payment actions; and
* provide regular reviews of all payment documents to ensure adequacy of records for
audit.
g.    As with administering any project, issues will arise on a day to day basis. The
Consultant should be prepared to assist with resolution of these and/or obtain assistance in their
resolution. The Consultant should be prepared to provide regular information on short notice to
designated representatives of the City, the Federal Government and the World Bank and to assist
these representatives at meetings, etc. The Consultant must also be available to Bank
representative who might be conducting industry research or in loan preparation for other Bank
loans.
Approach
15.   In carrying out the project, the consultants should assist in formulating strategies and
implementing involvement by a broad representation of the community in development planning
through a variety of means including focused group discussions, public hearings and widespread
public education and dissemination of new concepts. At an early stage the consultant should
identify key interest groups to ensure full citizen participation. These groups will include
residents and businesses in the center city, governmental organisations, representatives of donor
agencies and research and professional groups with an interest in the center city. Within the first
two months of the project, the consultant should develop a structured program for the
involvement of these groups. The program should provide a mechanism for enhancing co-
operation between city agencies and between city agencies and the public.
16.   In addition to involving community groups the consultant should provide for close co-
ordination and collaboration between service agencies, construction agencies and finance
agencies of the city government. This should be done through wide spread dissemination of
written materials and convening meetings of all agencies involved in particular aspects of the
project.
17.   The consultant should not dictate single solutions but, whenever possible, the consultant
should prepare alternatives for city and federal decisions. The evaluation of the alternatives
should include consideration of historical, architectural, economic, financial and social factors.
18. The Project will pay close attention to building institutions that are capable of planning,
implementing, regulating and promoting historic area renovations for the long run.



87
Budget
19.   A budget of US$9.8 million has been set aside for this consultancy . This is divided into
an allocation of US$5.6 for design and engineering and US$4.2 for the remaining work. In
addition to this consultancy contract, additional funds have been provided to the Leontiev Center,
the Fund for Development of Real Estate and to the Center for Operation of Bank Projects to
cover additional administrative, data gathering and other costs; donor finance is available for
consultants to be designated for complementary technical assistance.
Staffing
20.   The Consultant's proposal should indicate the positions that are to be filled along with
CV's for key personnel. It is expected that the project will require approximately the following
levels of effort. However, the consultant may propose less or more positions or a different
staffing pattern. Most of these positions will be short time. It will be advantageous if the required
skills can be combined to reduce the number of individual positions. Expected positions to be
filled by qualified persons include:
Area                                    Person months Skill Requirement
Project Management                            30       Project Director
32       Accountant
9       Procurement Specialist
Planning & Other                              30       Engineers
30       City Planners
36       Financial Analysts/Economists
12       Sociologists
15       Real estate Development Experts
26       Transport & traffic Expert
6       Public Administration Specialists
36       Cultural Asset Specialists
12       Environmental Specialists
20       Computer expert s- GIS & data base
1 I      Lawyers
Engineering for First 18 months of follow-on projects
21.    The Consultant must clearly display management ability and experience necessary to
administer a complex project. Experience of the team as a whole and the individual managers
must be clearly presented and verifiable. Ideally, the Project Director would speak both English
IThe total contract cost to the city is estimated at US$11.76 million. This includes taxes and other payments by the city that are
not to be included in the consultants' proposals.



88
and Russian and have experience with successful management of complex organisations and
construction projects, World Bank procedures and requirements, and Russian municipal
government organisations and functions. In addition, the director should have a proven ability to
work well with people with different backgrounds and objectives.
22.   The proposal should describe the management structure for the project. If there is more
than one firm included in the proposal, the proposal should describe the relative management
responsibilities of the firms. It should include the designation of a lead firm empowered to act
on everyone's behalf.
23.   The proposals should include the level of effort in person months for each position. This
level of effort will become a part of the contract between the City and the Consultant and be one
indicator of performance.
Monthly Reports
24.   The Consultant will closely monitor the progress on the project to determine if changes
are necessary to make the program more effective. Reports will include progress on meeting
project objectives, on meeting the individual objectives, and on measuring the developmental
impact of the project. A series of simple and verifiable indicators will be developed by the
consultant to measure progress toward meeting project and developmental objectives. The
monthly report will include specific accomplishments, problems, resolutions and
recommendations. Preparation of the monthly reports will require verification of information
received. The format and level of detail of the monthly reports must be acceptable to the city of
St. Petersburg, Minstroi, MinFin and other government ministries and the Bank. Reports will be
due on or before the tenth of each month.
25.   The Consultant will closely monitor the progress on each of the Project's Components
and Sub-components to determine if changes are necessary to make the program more effective.
Reports will include progress on meeting Project objectives and on meeting the individual
objectives set out within the regulatory action plans of the participating cities and those
objectives established within the individual components.
Reporting Relationships
26.   The Consultants will report to the Director of the City's Project Implementation Unit for
this project. The Director of the PIU will report to a City Co-ordinating Committee headed by the
Governor of St. Petersburg that has been put in charge of Center City Rehabilitation Project.



89
Project Review Unit
27.   There will be a small Project Review Unit that will provide advice on: Project
Preparation, Implementation strategy, Strategic Planning and World Bank policy and Procedures
to the organisations that are working on the project. They will also supervise the work of short
term consultants hired by the World Bank with funds provided by the Government of Finland.
The Terms of Reference for these consultants will be discussed with the PIU and General
Consultant. The PRU will also co-ordinate work of international donors and develop
performance indicators for this project and follow on project.
Timing
28.   The city expects to award the contract within 90 days after the proposal is received. The
consultant should mobilize fully within two months of the award of the contract. The contract
should be completed within 30 months. If the project continues longer than expected, the
contract may be extended on mutually agreeable terms substantially the same as those in the
original contract.
Office
29.   Within 30 days of contract signing, the Consultant will be responsible for establishing a
physical office complete with adequate work stations, office equipment, computers and
communication systems including local and international telephone & fax lines and electronic
mail. The Consultant will be responsible for maintaining a responsive and professional office
atmosphere throughout its obligation period.
30.   The main office of the PIU will be located in St. Petersburg. All central staff should be
accommodated in one central office to facilitate communication and maintain efficiency. The
office should be convenient to loan participants.
Russian Consulting Participation
31.   Firms are encouraged, but not required, to associate with local firms. It is the policy of
the Russian Government and the Bank to encourage and foster the development of domestic
consulting firms.
Conflict of Interest
32.   No consultant, city employee, member of the current PIU or of Minstroi who has
participated in the drafting of these Terms of Reference or selecting the short list may participate
as a part of a group submitting a proposal.






Annex 7
Terms of Reference
Strategic Plan for St. Petersburg
1. INTRODUCTION
During the transformation period of the social and economic systems in Russia, the creation of a
favorable investment climate is vital and essential for the development of the St. Petersburg
region. The office of the Governor of St. Petersburg is paying close attention to the interrelated
issues of city management and strategic planning.
A concept of the development of a strategic plan for the city of St. Petersburg was developed by
the Leontiev Center in 1995, based on the following principles:
a.    ongoing work in preparation and revision of a development strategy;
b.    highly professional strategy justification, with the integration of city leadership
into the decision making process; and
C.    development of a prioritized agenda of concrete action programs based no realistic
implementation.
The Strategic Plan should provide the basis for the development of St. Petersburg into a multi-
functional European city, a transport juncture and scientific, educational and cultural center,
integrated into the world economy. Most important, it should provide a realistic approach to the
city's development of increasingly high living standards for the inhabitants..
St. Petersburg should not just become a "window to Europe" but an integral part of Europe and a
major center of the Baltic Region and the North-West of Russia. The plan will support the
achievement of theses goals by addressing the issues of maintaining social stability and
improvement of quality of life. For the city center, tourism infrastructure development is of the
top priorities.
In 1995, the results of the development study of the Leontiev Center were published in a
document entitled;
"A Socio-Economic Development Strategy for the City of St. Petersburg (an Invitation
for Discussion)".
This document was published with the intent to stimulate the discussion process leading to the
formulation of an organization devoted to the development of a Strategic Plan for the City of St.
Petersburg.



92
The strategy is to ensure common understanding of social and economic goals, and potential
directions for development. To accomplish this goal an appropriate context for dialogue and
constructive contacts will be established between city authorities, managers of companies,
investors, developers, condominium associations, and social institutions. This process will begin
the moment the Head of the City Administration approves the plan for the Strategic Plan.
2. SCOPE OF WORK
The program outlined in these Terms of Reference is the logical next step. USAID grant funding
directed to this effort will be utilized to establish a planning organization which will develop the
basis for a Strategic Plan for the City of St. Petersburg. We envision that the planning effort
which is initiated through use of this USAID funding will evolve into a permanent city
government planning department similar to that found in most of the world's great cities.
The principal challenges facing the city in development of the Strategic Plan are:
_ structural transformation of the economy, employment issues
* inefficient municipal services
* poverty levels and increased differentiation of incomes
- housing shortage
* budget deficit
The Strategic Plan will address these challenges by defining social and economic policies,
principles of spatial development by city zones and by defining a framework for institutional
development.
This vision is facilitated by the reality of the upcoming World Bank financed St. Petersburg
Center City Rehabilitation Project. The work performed with these grant funds will be closely
coordinated with World Bank personnel developing the workscope for the St. Petersburg Center
City Rehabilitation Project, which will ensure transition and continuity of the planning process
when the center City project begins.
The work will consist of the following major phases:
a.    mobilize staff and facilities in St. Petersburg;
b.    schedule and conduct management level meetings at each city department to
identify development priorities;
c.    validate priorities;
d.    presentation of goals to City Administration;



93
e.    development of Strategic Plan (prioritized)
f.    presentation of Plan to City Administration
The following is detailed description of the activities of each of the phases, which will be
performed in sequence.
A. Mobilization of Staff and Facilities
*The work will be performed in the City of St. Petersburg. The Project Director is Dr. Leaned
Limonov, Director Coordinator of Research Projects for the Leontiev Center St. Petersburg. Dr.
Limonov will be assisted by a multi-national staff consisting of personnel, as needed, from
Leontiev Center, Parsons International and sub-consultants.
Mobilization will occur in mid-July. Approximately 300 sq. meters of office space will be
required in central St. Petersburg. This space will be either an existing city government building
or in leased space in a commercial office building. Office equipment, including a computer
network, telephone system, copiers and fax machines will be procured for the project. The
project will need one vehicle. We will transfer one (1) vehicle, (7 passenger Dodge Caravan
minivan) from the Military Housing Project to the St. Petersburg office.
B. Schedule and Conduct Management Level Meetings
After mobilization, a series of "stake holders" meetings will be held with residents, city
government agencies, private developers and investors, cultural institutions and donors. The
purpose of these meetings will be to obtain priorities for development and reconstruction from a
wide range of participants. These meetings will be at the spokesman or managerial level with
stake holder institutions and organization. These meetings will be organized and conducted
primarily by staff of the Leontiev Center, under the direction of Dr. Limonov. Priorities will be
categorized into various social, economic, infrastructure and development categories. The result
of this work will be listings of development goals and objectives from a diverse spectrum of
groups within the community.
C. Validate Priorities
Development and reconstruction priorities identified by stake holders will be validated by social,
financial, and economic and technical engineering experts. During this validation phase,
urban/regional planners, engineers and architects from Parsons and our subconsultants, as well as
financial and economic subconsultants will participate. The result of this phase will be
identification and ranking of valid development priorities.



94
D. Presentation
Upon completion of the validation phase, a highly professional presentation will be held for the
city administration, detailing the methodology and results of the identification and prioritization
of development objectives. This presentation will provide an explanation of how the
development objectives will form the basis for the Strategic Plan. The objective of this
presentation will be to provide an understanding of the planning process and to gain approval and
"buyin" by the city administration.
E. Development of the Strategic Plan
The development priorities obtained in prior phases will be used as the basis for the strategic
plan. The plan will encompass the broad spectrum of city needs, including infrastructure,
commercial, residential and industrial facilities, economic development, with particular emphasis
on the center city, transportation planning, financial planning and development of a legal and
economic framework for historic preservation.
During this phase of the project, the team will determine ways to meet the main transitional
challenges faced by the city through,
* combining the socio-economic and spatial approaches to planning
- involving the city's public and business communities in decisions
* transforming strategic decisions into specific actions and programs
v assuring the recovery potential and/or social importance of investment
This phase will include, but not limited to the following major activities.
*  Data collection and analysis will include development of a central data base which catalogs
previous studies and reports. A reference center will be established with copies of all
documents available, organized by economic segment and/or facility, as related to planning.
*  Identification of development priorities in the Strategic, Plan Concept.
+  Preparation of Strategic Programs.
+  Discussion of the Plan.
+  Development of specific requirements for Plan monitoring.
2. A specific program will be formulated for economic development, with particular reference to
the center city. This will include an assessment of the city's strengths and weaknesses from an
economic development standpoint, and will contain recommended types of economic activities
which will be developed and steps necessary to realize the potential. The specific employment
and income gains as well as costs, including social and environmental costs will be included.



95
3. A general transportation plan for the city will be developed, which contains specific
recommendations for the center city. The transportation plan will take all modes of transport into
account and will provide cost estimates and identify priorities for economic development. Costs
will include social and environmental costs.
4. A public utilities development plan will be developed, taking into account existing
demographics, the state of existing facilities and needs to support planned growth and
development. This plan will include cost estimates and will be prioritized to support the
economic development plan.
5. The legal and economic environment for historic preservation will be developed, to include
cost and revenue estimates, administrative procedures and relocation requirements.
6. A comprehensive review of the city's finances will be undertaken, to set out a realistic cost
envelope for financing services and capital development, building on work already accomplished
by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and studies undertaken by others.
Particular emphasis will be given to priorities identified by various stakeholder organization, and
continuous coordination with these groups is envisioned during preparation of the plan. During
the plan preparation stage, a trip will be organized to a major European city which has a recently
conducted a strategic plan and has an active full time Planning Department. Candidate cities
include Barcelona, Spain and/or Prague, Czech Republic. The field trip will be coordinated with
planning officials in the visiting city, and will include comprehensive discussions concerning
strategic plan development, the legal framework for city planning and plan enforcement, and
ongoing planning activities. Key decision makers from the City of St. Petersburg and
stockholder organizations will be included in the field trip.
F. Presentation of the Strategic Plan
Upon completion of the Strategic Plan, a phased presentation structure will be initiated. The
initial presentation will be to the City Administration, for approval and comment. Upon
preliminary approval of the City Administration, the plan will be presented to the city, via a
meeting/presentation to major city stakeholders. A comment period will be allowed wherein the
public will be invited to provide comments to the planning team. Comments will be compiled,
catalogued and published by the planning team. After comments are taken into consideration, a
final plan will be developed for approval by the city administration.






Annex 8
St. Petersburg Center City Rehsbilitatioli Project
Pilot Projects, Economic Rate of Return
Year       1997       1998       1999       2000       2001       2002  2003-2017
Block 130
Heating Plant
lnvestments
Works for boilers asnd network                  0 100      0 488       0 122
New modular gas boiler units                    0.224      0 672      0.112
New hesting network, pipe supply                0 liS       0 3S3      0 059
Total                                              0.442      1.513      0 293
Economic Benefits.
Fuel savings                                               0100        0 100      0 100      0.100      0 100      0 100
Avoided capital repair, boilers                            0.100      0 200       0 300      0.500      0.400      0.000
Avoided capital repair, networks                                      0 150       0 ISO      0 150      0050       0.050
Total                                                         0.200      0 450      0 550       0 750      0 550      0 ISO
Economic Rateof Return:                  16%      -0442      -I 313      0.157      0 550       0.750      0.550      0.150
Other
Investments
Pedestrian Mall (Works)                         0.491      0.491      0 491
Soil Scraping                                  0500       0 000       0 000
Total                                              0 991      0.491      0 491
Economic Benefl:s
Rental income                                              0.250      0 400       0462       0 462      0 462      0.462
Ecoonnitc Rate of Return:               24%       -0.991     -0.241     -0 091      0.462       0 462      0.462      0.462
Elderly Housing
Investment.                                                   0947        1 353
Economic Benefits:
Sales Revenue                                              0.514       1 028      1 028
Economic Rate of Return:                21%        0 000     -0.433     -0 325       1.028      0 000      0.000      0.000
Aggrepte Economic Rate of Return:             20%       -1.433     -1.555      0.066      1012        1.212      1012       0.612
Nevsky Prospekt Upgrading
Street Lighting
Investments
I 1I lamp posts 'St Petersbturg                 0.000      1.043      0.963
Electrical equipment                            0.000      0.224       0.020
Related works                                   0.000      0 344      0.034
Total                                              0.000      1.612      1 016
Economic benefits:
Electricity savings                                         0.02       0 02        0.02       0 02       0.02       0.02
Maintensance savings                                        0 01       0.01        0 01       0.01       0.01       0.01
Avoided capital repairs                                    OSO       0.600       0 700      0.800      0.900
Total                                                  0       0.53       0.63       0.73        0 83       0.93       0.03
Eronemkc Rate of Return:                23%        0.000     -I 082     -0.386      0730        0.e30      0.930      0 030
Other
Investments.
Signs, Cylinden, Maps                           0.053      0.053      0.000
Ramps, Handrails, Sidewalks                     1.000      1.000     OO.O
Traffic Lighsts                                 1.250      1.250      0.000
Total                                              2.303      2.303      0.000
Economic Benefits
Increasd rental income and tax revenue                     0.750       1 .000     1000       I 000      1.000      1.000
EconomicRate of Return:                 22%       -2303      -1.553      1.000      1I000       1.000      1.000      1.000
Agrepte Economc Rate of Return:               22%       -2.303     -2.635      0.614      1.730      1.830      1.930      1030
Smill Projects
Investments:
Smail Projects (six)                            0.000      0.660      0.000
Other                                           0.000      0,340      0 000
Total                                              0.000      I.ODO      0.000
Economic Benefits:
Rental revenues                                              0.64      0.128      0.12S      0,128      0.12S      0.12S
Economic Rate of Return:                35%        0.000     -0 360      0.128      0.128       0.12S      0.128      0.12S
Dumskays Ulltsa Infrastructure
Investment                                                    0.250      0.250
Economic Benefits:
Infrastructure fees                                                               0.604
Economic Rate of Return:                13%        0.000     -0.230     -0.250      0.604       0.000      0.000      0.000
I(apella
Investments
Small works (3) - electr. net., tel, wer           0.000      0 066      0.066
Boiler house                                       0.000      0.347      0.347
Paving, landscaping, lighting (3)                  0 000      0.692      0.692
Heating plant                                      0.000      0,157      0.157
Small goods                                        0.000      0157       0.157
Resettlement of tenant                             0.180      0.000      0.000
Total                                              0.180      1.417      1.417
Economic benefits                                  0 000     OO.O       0 000      0.550       0 550      0 550      0.550
Economic Rate of Return:                15%       401SO     -1417       1 417      0.550       0 550      0.550      0 550



98
Speciil Housing Fund
Disbursemenu:                                                0.700      0.642
Repayments:                                                             0.011      0.112      0.224      0.224     0.224
Eonomic Rate of Return:                14%        0.000     .0.700     -0.631     0.112      0.224      0.224      0.224
0.000      2 *14     3.6347    5.164      3.144      3.U4       2.544
Total Pilot Projects                                   3.916     10.233      .462       0.000      0000       0.000       000
Aggregate Economic Rate of Retur:           20%       -3.916     -7.349     -I I.164                3.944     314       2.344
* Computed rate of rturm is based upon fhicbal beei of sale of units an subsidized propety.
AchtAl rate of return, based upon volue of unlts at fr  maoet rate, would be sirtltly higher.



99
Annex 9
Principles of Tenant Relocation
1.    The housing stock in the center of St. Petersburg continues to deteriorate at an alarming
rate. Much of that stock is found in buildings of great architectural and historical significance,
making rehabilitation a matter not only of living standards, but also of preservation of the city's
invaluable architectural heritage. The city is committed to rehabilitating the deteriorating housing
stock, but is incapable of doing so without enormous investment of scarce public resources or,
alternatively, encouragement of private investment.
2.    Most deteriorating housing in the center of the city is social housing presently in the
ownership of the city, and most of that housing is in the form of communal apartments. Most
tenants are persons of limited financial means. Even where deteriorated housing units have been
privatized, it is likely that the new owners lack the means to perform needed rehabilitation.
Given the scarcity of public resources at this time and the need to provide an adequate return to
private investment, it is therefore inevitable that the strategic plan for rehabilitation of the
historic center of St. Petersburg will include some change from residential to commercial uses
and from lower quality housing to higher quality housing, and that such changes will result in
relocation of some present tenants and owners.
3.    In the context of the St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Loan Project the World
Bank has discussed with city authorities the requirements of the World Bank regarding
relocation. The present policies and procedures of the city and the Russian Federation are fully
in accord with those requirements in spirit and in law. It has always been and remains the policy
of the city that relocation is to be undertaken as a last resort, and is to be accomplished with
maximum respect for the economic rights and social needs of the affected citizens. The laws of
the Russian Federation erect stringent standards for relocation of tenants of social housing. As a
rule, where relocation occurs by municipal initiative, Russian law requires:
*     relocation only in cases of severe housing deterioration constituting a threat
to health or safety or threatening irreparable deterioration of the housing
stock;
*     implementation of relocation through voluntary means whenever possible;
*     relocation standards based upon a minimum space standard and almost
invariably better housing conditions;
*     providing relocatees with a suitable choice among several relocation
opportunities.
4.    Rehabilitation of the center of St. Petersburg is a vast project which will be accomplished
over an extended period of time. It is not possible at this time to define all of the projects in



100
which relocation may be necessary. Moreover, only a small portion of the work contemplated
now will be undertaken with the assistance of the World Bank. Nevertheless, the city is
committed to establishing, with the ongoing assistance of the World Bank in the context of the
Center City Rehabilitation Project, a comprehensive policy toward relocation.
5.    In all projects to be undertaken with the assistance of the Center City Rehabilitation Loan
from the World Bank, the following principles will be applied:
*  Relocation will be permitted only in those instances specified in the laws of the
Russian Federation and the City of St. Petersburg.
*  Relocation will proceed in accordance with the procedures of relocation specified in
the laws of the Russian Federation and the City of St. Petersburg.
*  Project planning will seek to minimize relocation, voluntary or involuntary.
*  Relocation will occur only in accordance with a plan of relocation prepared by the
city or approved by the city in the process of awarding redevelopment project
opportunities to private investors.
*  To prevent speculation and ineligible claims and to assist in evaluating relocation
plans, relocation needs will be evaluated early in the planning process, before project
announcement, through appropriate socio-economic surveys
*  Voluntary agreements are viewed by the city as the best assurance of fair market
evaluation of tenants' economic rights. The first approach to tenant relocation will be
through voluntary agreements negotiated between the designated redeveloper of a
building and the tenants.
*  Though private negotiation will be main principle of relocation, the city recognizes
that it has the ultimate responsibility to assure through appropriate supervision and
monitoring that relocation is carried out in accordance with the established policies.
*  Relocation on the basis of cash settlements alone will not be permitted except in
those cases where it is the clearly expressed preference of the tenant. Relocation will
be based on the principle of assisting those persons to be relocated to find
replacement housing of better condition and equal value.
*  All efforts will be made to relocate tenants near to transportation to their places of
employment and to avoid commuting times which are unreasonable in light of the
prevailing standards of St. Petersburg.



101
*   In the case of the elderly in particular, all reasonable efforts will be made to relocate
the tenants to the vicinity of their former homes.
* In no case will the alternative dwelling premises provided fall below the required
minimum space per person as defined in the housing standards of the Russian
Federation and the City of St. Petersburg, whichever is greater.
*   In accordance with Russian Federation law, relocation benefits will be extended to
all persons residing in housing under rights of "naym"1 or ownership. Members of
extended families residing together will be offered relocation as a unit in accordance
with applicable space standards. In accordance with present law, persons occupying
housing units in violation of the laws of the Russian Federation who are not members
of the extended family will be relocated to housing which is equivalent to the
housing that they are presently occupying.
*   It is the policy of the city to preserve a social and economic mix in the city center to
the maximum extent possible given scarce city resources. To preserve a social and
economic mix of citizens in the city's center, the city will explore the potential for
developing or rehabilitating relocation housing in the city center, giving particular
attention to the elderly and persons whose health needs require that they remain in
the place.
*   Relocation efforts will be based upon full disclosure of plans to affected citizens at
appropriate times in the redevelopment process and continuing communication with
affected citizens and their representatives throughout the relocation process. The
policy of the city is to involve the affected citizens in the relocation process to the
maximum feasible extent.
*   The city will provide or require provision of services and mechanisms to reduce or
avoid conflict and to assure that the relocation process will be carried out with all due
regard for the economic and personal rights of the tenants. Included arnong the
proposed mechanisms will be the services of professionals or organizations with
expertise in conflict resolution and assistance to the tenants to organize appropriate
representative councils.
*   Involuntary relocation will proceed only as a last resort and only in cases where (1)
the building to be reconstructed is deteriorated and poses a threat to health and safety
or threatens irreparable deterioration to the housing stock if not addressed through
comprehensive reconstruction, as determined under the laws of the City; (2) all
efforts have been exhausted to reach a negotiated agreement; and (3) the demands of
'"Naym" is the Russian term given to long-term rights of use.



102
the tenant lack an economic basis under the prevailing standards of St. Petersburg.
In no case will involuntary relocation proceed without court judgment as provided in
the laws of Russian Federation and the City of St. Petersburg.  Involuntary
relocation will not affect the rights of the relocated tenant or the quality of housing to
which he is entitled under the law.
* All relocation efforts undertaken in connection with World Bank assisted projects
will be closely monitored by the city with the assistance of the World Bank and
evaluated on the basis of the established policies.
* The city will work with the World Bank in the context of the Center City
Rehabilitation Project and any future projects to further define and develop its
relocation polices on the basis of experimentation with innovative concepts and
lessons learned in project implementation.



Annex 10
STATEMENT OF CITY POLICY IN THE SPHERE OF
IMMOVABLE PROPERTY (REAL) PROPERTY LEGISLATION
To:   Mr. Jonathan Brown
The World Bank
Re: St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project
Dear Mr. Brown:
The government of St. Petersburg understands that in order to obtain the Center
City Rehabilitation loan further development of the nornative (regulatory) and legislative
framework in the sphere of the (urban) city real estate market is necessary.
Development of a comprehensive local legislative framework is rather a
complicated task. Development of important urban policies regarding housing, land
relationships and municipal finance is within the authority of the federal Government and
it affects the development of city programs-proper.
In St. Petersburg the process of reforn is ongoing and not only the city
administration, but also Legislative Assembly and business community are actively
participating, and each of them play an important role. Significant progress in the
development of a modern legislative and regulatory framework for the real estate market
has been achieved. Housing reform - an important factor for normal functioning of the
urban economy and one of the major principles in developing the city's financial plan is
an example.
The following steps have been taken recently:
* The comprehensive city program "Zhilishche" (Housing) on reform of the entire
housing sector has been prepared on the basis of the Federal program;
* Began a program to encourage and support creation of associations of home owners,
and to date associations have been created in over 30 buildings;
* Began a program to support management and maintenance tenders for city housing
stock, including creation of a coordination committee within the city administration.
*  Before other cities of Russia, began a program of transferring land into (private)
ownership. More than 400 land parcels have been transferred into ownership of
privatized enterprises, and approximately 500 applications are under consideration.



104
* In conformity with the privatization program of the Russian Federation, privatization
of approximately 95% of city-owned retail space has been completed.
* Implemented a program of registration of rights to and transactions with privately
owned real estate, including housing, land and commercial buildings.
Currently in preparation are additional actions concerning reorganization of the
city administrative structures dealing with management and maintenance of the housing
stock; normative acts regulating relations between residential home owners and the users
of non-residential spaces are being adopted, as well as normative acts concerning city
participation in repair and maintenance costs of buildings under the management of home
owners associations.
It should be noted that most of these initiatives were taken in the absence of
federal legislation on these issues, and at the same time in total conformity with the city's
obligations under the housing loan from the World Bank. All this is an evidence that the
city is serious regarding its obligations under agreements with the Bank.
In the future, the city intends to continue work in the housing sphere and also
focus its attention on further improvement in urban development policies and
development of real estate markets. Significant proposals are under preparation for the
nearest future:
Reform of Housing and Communal Services:
*  further support for creation of home owners associations through training programs
for city departments and home owners and development of a model charter of
associations:
* an accelerated program to turn condominium housing management and maintenance
responsibility over to private companies;
*  contacting of management and maintenance of housing through competitive tenders,
and redirection of housing subsidies from municipal housing maintenance companies
directly to condominiums;
*  a program on tariff increases for communal services charges to the level of actual
costs, coupled with implementation of targeted housing subsidies (housing
allowances) to persons most in need;
Support for Creation of Real Estate Markets:
* further development of the system of registration of private property rights to real
estate;



105
* adoption of the law on protection of private investments in the real estate sphere,
which is presently in draft form and under the supervision of the City Real Estate
Commission with active involvement of the city's business community;
* introduction of a system of market appraisal of real estate offered to private sector;
* use of market appraisal to determine reasonable infrastructure development fees on a
case by case basis, and reduction in infrastructure development fees on the whole;
* development of normative acts on privatization of city-owned buildings of
architectural and historical significance;
*  development of normative acts on granting of permits for land use, construction and
commissioning of newly completed buildings ready for use and occupancy;
* development of better normative acts and documents on leasing urban or municipal
land for development; and
* development of optimal normative acts on urban development and functional zoning
or territories, drafts of which have been completed and under active discussion by the
administration and the Legislative Assembly.
The most recent regulations of the city and proposals under discussion by the city
administration are shown on the attached chart.
Considering the complexities of the political and legislative process in Russia it is
not possible to assure that each of these initiatives will be accomplished on schedule. It is
also possible that further developments of a legal or economic nature may lead to
reconsideration of some items on the program. However, the city administration will
carry out the planned reforms of vital necessity to the city's development.
MAYOR OF THE CITY OF ST. PETERSBURG






Annex 11
MEMOR ANDUM
TO:           Mr. Sergei Istomin
CC:           Mr. Boris Smirnov
Mrs. Adrienne Nassau
FROM:         Mr. Stephen Butler
RE:           St. Petersburg: Progress On Housing Loan Regulatory Action Program as
of            June 1, 1996
DATE:         June 15,1996
In connection with the recent World Bank mission to St. Petersburg from May 13
through May 25, 1966 I reviewed the city's progress on meeting the terms of the Housing
Program Regulatory Action Program ("RAP"). I was able to gather information on most aspects
of the RAP and my general conclusion is that the city has complied with the RAP is all material
respects.  The reasons for my conclusion are set out below.   Also set out are my
recommendations for issues needing attention during the next phase of the housing loan.
Pertinent to consideration of the city's compliance with the RAP is my initial report
prepared at the time the housing loan was declared effective, dated April 10, 1995, which
focused on the essential conditions of title registration and land privatization procedures. A copy
of that report is attached as Appendix A of this memorandum.
Also pertinent to the issue is the schedule of legislative initiatives proposed by the city
for consideration in the coming year, which is attached as Appendix B of this memorandum.
Registration of Rights To Real Estate
The city was required to demonstrate an adequate system of title registration prior to
loan effectiveness, which it did. Further development and refinement of the system is a long
term process which the city continues to implement. The requirements of the St. Petersburg
RAP in the sphere of registration of rights to real estate and an update of the city's progress
follows:
Objective: To create and implement the technical and legal basis for registration and protection
ofproperty interests in land and other real estate.



108
Task 1: Preparation of laws regulating title registration.
The city has substantially met its obligations under this task. It adopted its local
regulations on registration of rights to real estate as outlined in my report to Mrs. Nassau,
attached. The regulations establish a comprehensive basis for registration of real estate titles.
The relevant city regulations include the Order of the Mayor of St. Petersburg No. 1329-p, On
State Registration/Record Keening of Real Estate On the Territory of St. Petersburg, December
29, 1994, and accompanying appendices.
There is not yet a city law on registration of rights to real estate, partially due to the
delay at the federal level, where the proposed law on registration was approved by the State
Duma in its third reading only on July 19, 1996. It is anticipated that the national registration
law will be adopted by the Federal Council and signed by the President in the near future, which
may resolve the underlying issues in this sphere.  In anticipation of this event, the City
commissioned the Fund for Development of the City Real Estate Market to prepare a draft city
law of registration, which has been completed and is presently in circulation for comment.
Task 2: Selection of a design for the title registration system.
The city has an active program of registration of rights to land and real estate objects.
The system created by the city is under the supervision of the City Committee On Land
Resources and Management, but is comprised of two separate registries - one for rights to
residential property and another for all other rights.
Rights to residential property are registered by the Municipal Bureau For Housing
Registration, which, using local firms, developed a sophisticated software system for registration
which has been fully implemented at this time.
Rights to land and non-residential structures are registered by the district offices of the
local variant of the Bureau of Technical Inventory, using another software system developed by
the City Land Committee with the assistance of local firmns. The system has not yet been fully
implemented in all districts because of funding shortages, but the system design appears to be
well settled at this time. Further development of the system may be recommended in a review to
be undertaken by the City Land Committee and Swedesurvey under a grant from the Swedish
Govemment which has been offered as a component for the Word Bank's Center City
Rehabilitation Loan Project.
The existence at present of separate information systems for registration of housing and
all other real property may pose a problem at some point in the future if both systems are
integrated into a single city-wide system for registration of rights to all real property. On the
other hand, either system is capable of being extended to registration of all real estate, and the
present situation perhaps gives the opportunity for experimentation with competing systems.
Taskc 3: Implementation of title registration system in the project district.
This task has been completed. Title registration for residential property is carried out by
the Municipal Bureau for Housing Registration on a city-wide basis, including the district in
which the project site is located. Registration of land and non-residential structures is carried out



109
in the project district by the district office of the Land Committee (formerly the district offices
of the BTI). The office in the project district is presently operational.
Task 4: Training of staff
Staff training continues on an ongoing basis in both the Bureau of Housing Registration
and the Land Committee, as resources allow.
Task 5: Identification of existing land users and land plot boundaries.
The task of systematically identifying parcel boundaries and existing ownership rights is
a long term project that has begun under the direction of the City Land Committee. It is an
expensive process and the city lacks the resources to undertake it on a comprehensive basis.
Accordingly, the task is proceeding on a selective basis in certain key districts of the city. It is
likely that the first districts to be completed will be the four districts of the city's historic center,
where some work has already begun. Creation of procedures and the technical basis for
systematic identification of boundaries and users is part of the scope of work of the aid to be
provided to the City Land Committee by Swedesurvey under a grant of the Swedish Government
which is being offered as a component of the World Bank's Center City Rehabilitation Loan
Project.
Task 6: Integration of the district title registration system into a unified city-wide
system.
Considering the constraints caused by delay and confusion in federal law, the city has
substantially complied with this task. Creation of a unified system of registration for the entire
city has already been accomplished for residential property under the auspices of the Municipal
Bureau for Housing Registration. The Bureau is gradually opening new district offices in
selected locations which from the start will be fully integrated with the central system.
Registration of land and non-residential buildings is proceeding by district offices of the
City Land Committee (formerly BTI offices) and integration of the data from these offices is a
longer term process that has only begun. The City Land Committee has established a fully
integrated system as a principal objective and is pursuing the objective through various means,
including the ongoing technical assistance program offered by the Swedish Government
(Swedesurvey) under the auspices of the World Bank's Center City Rehabilitation Loan Project.
The issue of creating a single, unified system of registration for all forms of real estate -
which was an aspiration of the Regulatory Action Plan - is dependent upon many factors,
including the future development of the national legislation. The Director of the Municipal
Bureau of Housing Registration offers the opinion that the future real estate registry will be
created as an independent agency, meaning that it will be taken from the Land Committees
which presently have administrative and executive responsibilities for land privatization and
enforcement of land use restrictions. This is seen by many as a conflict of interest that will not
survive. In anticipation of that possibility, the Municipal Bureau of Housing Registration has
deliberately designed its system to be able to accommodate registration of all forms of real estate
and real estate interests, including land. The outcome of this present policy debate remains to be
seen over the coming year, but it appears that the national law on registration, if finally adopted,
will create pressure for a unified local registry independent of the City Land Committee.



110
Land Privatization
A minimally adequate system for land privatization, consisting of an auction and tender
regulation and assignment of land privatization responsibilities to a designated agency of the city
government, was provided by the city as a condition of loan effectiveness. The city's land
auction regulation was described in my report to Mrs. Nassau, attached. The city's efforts in land
privatization were partially reflected in the recent land auctions successfully conducted under the
housing project.
. Generally, the city should be considered in compliance with the requirements of the
RAP. Land privatization is proceeding, though with some problems. The requirements of the St.
Petersburg RAP in the sphere of land privatization and the city's progress since loan
effectiveness are as follows:
Objective: Create a fair and open procedure for transferring land from public to private
ownership and support development of the private land and housing markets.
Task 1: Allocate authority for the land disposition program to an appropriate city
agency.
The city's initial approach to land privatization was through the Investment Tender
Commission ("ITC"), a city commission responsible for identifying and offering land parcels for
development, either through competitive procedures or negotiated transactions. The ITC was
initially staffed by the City Construction Department, but has recently been removed to a newly
created City Department of Construction and Investment. It remains to be seen whether the
reorganization will affect the operations of the ITC.
Despite creation of the ITC, at this time authority to allocate land in the city remains
spread over a number of city agencies and actors, including not only the ITC but also the
Architectural and Urban Development Committee, the Mayor's Office, and the City Property
Committee. In effect, there is no single authority for land privatization issues, resulting in
different approach being taken by various city departments.
There is some indication that the existence of various sources and methods of land
privatization has to some extent undermined the effectiveness of the ITC. Recent reports show
that only a very small portion of the land privatization transactions - perhaps less than 5% - are
through competitive procedures and that the preferred method of allocation remains the
negotiated transaction. Moreover, the overall rate of privatization through city identification and
offering of land plots to the private developers remains questionable, but whether that is due to
the market or to the procured or privatization requires further consideration. Staff of the ITC
complained that the power of the Chief Architect and Mayor's office to allocate land for targeted
purposes through decree frequently undermined the efforts of the ITC to market land through
competitive procedures.
Task 2: Develop a city land allocation policy.
The city has not yet formulated a comprehensive policy statement for land privatization,
though it has developed several ongoing programs of privatization which are noteworthy.
Primary among these is the program of enterprise land privatization which is being carried out



111
under the direction of the City Property Committee, and which is uniquely successful among
Russian municipalities. Under that program, authorized under the President's post 1994-95
national program of privatization, hundreds of land parcels are in the process of being conveyed
to ownership of enterprise, a process which is hoped will ultimately result in a increased
availability of land in the city for other development purposes as the enterprises further convey
the land in secondary market transactions.
In 1995 the Mayor promulgated an order relating to the creation of area development
companies ("agencies of territorial development") which would have the responsibility to
develop whole areas of the city, but it is apparent from my recent research that this concept has
been largely on paper and few of the designated territorial agencies have any real powers or
responsibilities with respect to city owned land.
Aside from these examples, the city has not yet enunciated a broad vision of land
privatization, though some additional legislation is under development or consideration at his
time, as discussed further below.
Task 3: Prepare and adopt regulations governing disposition of land through auctions,
investment tenders and purpose oriented allocations.
The city adopted its current regulations on land auctions and investment tender
competitions prior to loan effectiveness. Since then there has been no significant additional
legislation enacted on this topic. At this time there is some dissatisfaction with the substantive
rules and procedures of land privatization and the city has under consideration a second
generation of laws to address the issues, which are based largely on experience and lessons
learned over the past several years. Legislation dealing with land privatization which is under
consideration, either conceptually or in a more advanced stage of development, include the
following:
*  Draft law of St. Petersburg On Private Investment in Real Estate
*  Regulation on Creation, Coordination, Implementation and Consolidation of the
"Address Program" for Capital Investment and Reconstruction
*  Regulation on the Procedure for Creation, Coordination and Implementation of
the Address program Fund for Capital Construction and Reconstruction
*  Regulation On Procedure of Creating, Coordinating and Implementing the
Address Program for Construction Objects at the Expense of the Federal Budget
*  Regulation On Preparation and Realization of Investment Projects in the Sphere
of Real Estate
*  Regulation On the Procedure Of Offering Real Estate Objects for Construction
Through Investment Tenders
All of this proposed legislation is described in more detail in Appendix B.



112
Task 4: Develop basic conditions and legalforms for land disposition contracts.
The city developed its basic forms for conveying land parcels through auction, tender
and targeted allocation prior to loan effectiveness. However, there are significant complaints
from the private development community that the current legal documentation fails to provide
the protections needed for private investment. In fact, my assessment is that this complaint is
well grounded. There is some opinion that the inadequacies of the legal documentation is at the
root of the lack of interest in many city offerings of land and real estate for auction or tender.
The problem is particularly acute in cases where redevelopment requires the developer to invest
large sums in relocation of present tenants.
The city has expressed interest in reviewing the current documentation and making
necessary changes, but that proces has not begun formally.
Housing Reform
Housing reform, along with reform of land use and development controls, is under the
RAP one of the policy sectors to be addressed by the city over the long term. At his time the city
appears to have made an adequate start and should be considered to be in compliance with the
RAP. The requirements of the St. Petersburg RAP in the sphere of housing reform and the city's
progress to date are as follows:
Objective: Create a local housing policy that (f) encourages and supports private housing
ownership; (2) encourages and supports transition to private management and maintenance of
allforms of housing; and (3) provides opportunities for training and assistance to those engaged
in housing privatization, including public officials, associations of owners, private sector
housing developers and mortgage lenders.
Task 1:  Allocate responsibility for housing reform  issues to appropriate city
departments.
Responsibility for coordinating the housing reform effort in the city was placed with the
City Committee On Management of the Municipal Economy, in which are found the
Departments of Housing and Communal Services. It is not clear at this time whether the recent
election will result in a reallocation of responsibilities, though there is some indication at this
time that the Housing Department may be recreated as a separate City Committee.
Task 2. Create a city working group on housing issues.
Mayor's Order On Establishing the Coordinating Commission on Development of New
Forms of Housing Management and Maintenance in St. Petersburg (No. 347-p, 04.10.95)
created a coordinating committee to oversee the effort to encourage creation of associations of
homeowners and privatization of building management and maintenance. It is not clear what the
future of this coordinating committee will be after the recent election.



113
Task 3: Development of documents establishing the city housing reform program.
In June, 1996, the city adopted the local program "Zhelistschye," which follows the
federal program of the same name. The program is a general, comprehensive policy statement
on housing reform in the city which identifies both short and long term objectives as well as a
program of local legislative and regulatory reform in the housing sector.
Task 4: To the extent required, adopt local laws or regulations on implementation of
housing reform, including condominiums and private management.
In the past year the city has enacted a great deal of significant legislation dealing with
housing reform, including:
*  Mayor's Order On Establishing the Coordinating Commission on Development
of New Forms of Housing Management and Maintenance in St. Petersburg (No.
347-p, 04.10.95)
*  Mayor's Order On Representatives of the City of St. Petersburg in Home
Owners Associations (No. 1071 -p, 05.10.95)
*  Mayor's Order On Approving the Regulation of the Coordinating Commission
on Development of New Forms of Housing Management and Maintenance (No.
1251, 01.12.95)
*  City Property Committee Instruction On City Representation in Home Owners
Associations (No. 721-p, 29.12.95)
*  Mayor's Order On Creating Home Owners Associations in St. Petersburg (No.
55-p, 25.01.96)
*  Program  of the City Committee for Municipal Services For Creation of
Associations of Home Owners in St. Petersburg (05.03.96)
*  Mayor's Order On Payment of Housing and Communal Services Charges in
Buildings Belonging to Home Owners Associations (No. 296-p, 04.04.96)
*  Mayor's Order On Approval of Transfer of Housing Management to Home
Owners Associations (No. 219-p, 18.04.96)
Task 5: Design and implementation of a program for training housing associations and
formation of condominiums and otherforms of commonly owned housing.
The city has begun a program of creating condominium associations pursuant to an
Order of the Chairman of the Committee On Municipal Economy (the present Governor) dated
March 3, 1996. Associations are to be created in approximately 100 buildings which have been
designated in the order. The program is proceeding with technical assistance from the local
office of the Russian Privatization Committee, and to date associations have been setup in
approximately 40 buildings.



114
Also with the assistance of the Russian Privatization Committee, the city has begun a
training program for officers and directors of condominium associations. The first class of
approximately thirty persons began in April, 1996, to be followed with training for
approximately 150 persons.
Task 6. Design and implementation of training programs in private housing
management for municipal officials and private sector firms, including demonstration
programs.
The city has established a working group under the direction of the Housing Department
to conduct pilot experiments in private management and maintenance of social housing pursuant
to the Mayor's Orders On Establishing the Coordinating Commission on Development of New
Forms of Housing Management and Maintenance in St. Petersburg (No. 347-p, 04.10.95) and
On Approving the Regulation of the Coordinating Commission on Development of New Forms of
Housing Management and Maintenance (No. 1251, 01.12.95). The city is receiving technical
assistance from The Urban Institute to hold its first public tender competitions for housing
management, which is now expected to occur in September, 1996. The number of housing units
which will be offered for private management and maintenance competitions will be quite small
at this time. In this regard, St. Petersburg is significantly behind some other cities - most
particularly Moscow, which has a substantial program of management privatization - in
experimenting with private management and maintenance.
In addition, in Mayor's Order On Approval of Transfer of Housing Management to
Home Owners Associations (No. 219-p, 18.04.96) the city has adopted the necessary local
regulations to begin to transfer housing management and maintenance responsibilities over to
associations of home owners, and is actively in the process of working out the terms and
procedures for transfer.
Task 7. Demonstration and implementation of a mortgage lending program for
individual housing
The city included this task in its Regulatory Action Program with the intention of
encouraging development of a private sector market for individual mortgage loans. At this time
several local banks, including Promstroibank, Baltishsky Bank, St. Petersburg Ipotekabank and
Bank St. Petersburg, are actively working with The Urban Institute and others to develop retail
mortgage lending programs. In addition, the city administration is developing a program of
direct subsidy assistance to persons on the housing waiting list to purchase private housing,
focusing primarily on downpayment assistance to be used in conjunction with private mortgage
loans. The program - identified as a priority in the local program "Zhelistschye" - is presently
in the early stages of development with technical assistance from The Urban Institute.
Task 8: Demonstration of an insurance programfor emergency housing maintenance.
The city included this in its Regulatory Action program with the intention of creating the
basis to encourage the use of private hazard insurance to protect privately owned housing. The
concept is still under development at this time.



115
Land Use and Development Controls
Reform of and use and development controls is the second policy sector identified in he
RAP in which the city is committed to make progress over the longer term. Like housing
reform, this is a complex area of reform which involves many city actors and long-entrenched
methods. At this time it is possible to say that there is a great deal of ferment regarding these
issues and an openness to reform, but that the process will probably be slow and deliberate.
However, the complexity of these issues was anticipated in the position of the RAP, which
allowed for progress over the entire course of the housing project loan. Most of these issues,
while begun in good faith by the city, will require increased attention over future project years.
In the sphere of land use and development controls the RAP called on the city to
consider the following:
Objective: Create a fair, flexible, open and efficient system of land use regulation responsive to
the needs ofprivate sector and housing markets.
Task 1: Prepare acceptable town planning assignments for the land auction project
component.
This task was completed prior to the recently completed land auctions.
Task 2: Revise the city's architectural and planning rules to accommodate the needs of
private sector development.
The procedures of obtaining land use and development permits and approvals remains
the same today as approximately five years ago. However, there is a great deal of activity in this
sphere that may eventually result in some advances being made.
Task 3. Consider enactment of a city zoning law.
City zoning is much under discussion in the city today and the city must be viewed as
being in compliance with this task. Proposed zoning laws have been created by different
sources, including the Committee On Architecture and Urban Development, the Fund for
Development of the St. Petersburg Real Estate Market and the Urban Development Committee
of the Local Legislative Council. Technical assistance has been provided on various aspects of
municipal zoning and land use controls by USAID through The Urban Institute and the Bancroft
Group. The work of the latter consultant was considered in the context of the World Bank
project on center city rehabilitation, while the urban Institute's work has been connected with
development of fundamental legislation. It is possible that a zoning law might be enacted by the
city council in 1997.
Task 4: Consider enactment of the city law On Urban Planning Regulation.
The law On Urban Development (Planning) has been prepared and is under
consideration by the city legislature.



116
Task 5: Consider enactment of the local land code.
A local land code has been prepared by the Fund for Development of the St. Petersburg
Real Estate Market and is under the consideration of the City Real Estate Commission.
Task 6: Review related regulations concerning land use.
The city is considering initiatives in various spheres which are related to land use and
development controls, some of which have been identified in the local program "Zhelitshchye"
as well as the proposed legislative program for the center city rehabilitation project. Legislative
and regulatory initiatives related to land use and development controls include the following:
*  Regulation On the Procedure for Carrying Out City Orders for Construction
and Reconstruction
*  Regulation On the Procedure of Obtaining Technical Conditions for
Connecting to Communal Facilities and Resolving Disputed Issues
*  Elaboration of the List of Project Planning Norms in St. Petersburg, With
Generally Applicable Standards for Calculating Technological and
Economic Requirements
*  Regulation On the Procedure for Elaborating and Modifying the General
Plan of Engineering Infrastructure
Task 7. Review and revise the city master plan to the extent necessary.
The city, in particular the Committee On Architecture and Urban Development, has
proposed comprehensive review and revision of the obsolete city master plan. There is a general
consensus that such a revision is required, particularly in the context of increasing land
privatization, but the process is costly and the city presently lacks the resources to begin.
Revision of the master plan has not been the focus of bi-lateral technical assistance programs,
though as part of the World Bank loan project on center city rehabilitation the city will explore
the concept of strategic planning for the center city, which will perhaps become a first step in the
process of revising the city master plan.
Issues For Future Attention
The following are in my view the main issues during the second project year:
Registration of Rights:
* Rapid adaptation to the national registration law, if enacted, in particular creation of the
unified local registry for all types of real estate and transactions.



117
Privatization:
*  Attempts to increase the rate of privatization through public offerings of city owned land;
further investigation of the current slow rate of privatization through public offerings.
*  Further development of a comprehensive city policy on land privatization, taking into
account the enterprise land privatization program; the agencies of territorial development;
privatization of condominium land as called for under the recently enacted condominium
law.
*  Resolution of issues of authority surrounding land privatization; coordination of privatization
practices among various city bureaucracies.
*  Further progress on developing legal rights and documentation which will encourage private
investment.
Housing Reform:
* Accelerating the pace of converting to private management and maintenance of social
housing.
Land Use and Development Controls:
- Development and issuance of transparent regulations on land use and development controls,
including some form of local zoning code.






Annex 12
City Planning Issues
Saint Petersbur, Center City Upgrading Project
Main issues
1.           The upgrading of St. Petersburg city center raises a number of issues which should
be discussed and clarified before the implementation of any large scale project. These issues are:
a)    objectives in upgrading the city center
b)    clarification of current occupants rights
c)    the role of Govemment in the upgrading of the city center
d)    the need for the deveioprment of ai uDgTading st-,ategy li.l..g !and a  e
reguiaLions, ioca; guvei-nment spatial development objectives and the development
of the city infrastructure;
e)    Realistic expectations on the pace of upgrading under current conditions;
fl    the need for data collection and dissemination
The objectives
2.           The main objectives in upgrading the city center should be:
a)    to preserve the image of St. Petersburg as a unique historical city with a rich
cultural past;
b)    to promote the type of economic activities which are compatible with the
preservation of the historical building stock;
c)    to allow the property market to function with maximum efficiency within the limits
imposed by the preservation of the building stock;
3.           The rapid improvement of the quality of the housing stock is not a main objective
of the upgrading. Preservation of residential historical buildings is very expensive. It is too costly
to be subsidized on a large scale by the public sector. Because apartments located in upgraded
historical buildings will cost much more than apartments in equivalent modem buildings it is not
realistic to pursue a direct social housing objective within the upgrading program. Hiowver -.this
does not mean that the rights of low income households who are presently occupying apartments
located in historical buildings have to be abridged. see below "Clarification of occupants rights"



120
Clarification of Current Occupants' Rights
4.    Allowing current occupants to collect their share of the market price of the apartnent they
occupy might be an eficient way of redistributing the wealth generated by real estate market
forces. If, in an effort to decrease the cost of relocition, a policy was adopted to provide
occupants with an apartment "equivalent" in size but not in market value, this would result in a
regressive transfer of wealth from poor to rich. The preservation of the right of the occupants -
not simply the right to housing but the right to a share of the market value of their apartment-
should be one of the major concern of the government. If the preservation of this right contnbutes
to slow down the upgrading process, so be it! The social cost of dispossessing the current
occupants from a large part of the value of their real estate assets and transferring it to wealthier
households would be much higher than the few additional years that might be required for
upgradina if the full right of occupant is respected.
The role of Government
5.            The traditional role of Govemment in a market economy is to provide and
maintain city infrastructure and to establish the rules under which the market will function.
Because of its role as a regulator, the government could not become a supplier of the commodity
it regulates without having a conflict of interest. Exceptionally,*and only when a large government
investment in infrastructure justifies it, the government could justify entering into financial
partnership wicn private reai estate developers in order to recover more directly its investment.
This might be the case for instance in urban development around railways or metro stations.
6.            In the case of the upgradinc project of St. Petersburg, the government should
concentrate its effort on the following tasks:
a)     upgrading infrastructure in the historical area to a level consistent with the
projected land use and population and employment density;
b)     keeping a detailed inventory of the buildings or part of buildings with historical or
art,istic value which should be preserved, including an assessment of the urgency of
repairs
c)     preparing a strategy for upgrading the historical districts. This strategy would
provide a framework for government investment in infrastructure and for special
regulations affiecting the area.
d)     establishing the rules un der which the upgrading will function.
7.     Some part of the infrastructure network in the city center is often dating back from pre-
Revolutionary times . Temporary repairs of the inifrastructure network are regularly being
conducted on an emergency basis. The proposed project should provide the resources to build in
the center of Saint Petersburg an infrastructure as efficient as its superstructure is prestigious.
However, emergency measures having been taken, many of the investments would have to be
considered in the context of the entire city. The regulatory part is as important as the
infrastructure and should mobilize government resource and attention.



121
8.           Should the local government build a "demonstration project"? Given the present
slow pace of upgrading the local government might be tempted to stimulate the process by
participating directly-in the selection, financing and construction of a demonstration.project. The
objective being to show private developers that it is feasible to upgrade a building quickly and
profitably. The temptation to conduct this type of demonstration should be strongly resisted for
two reasons: (a) projects conducted by the govemment to demonstrate the flexibility and
efficiency of its own bureaucracy is never very convincing to the private sector, and (b) the
financing and costs parameters used by the government are not equivalent to those met in the
private sector. For instance the time spent by government employees in the design and
administration of a project is rarely accounted for at its full cost. Interest paid during construction
by government --if accounted for at all-- is rarely at the same interest rate as the one which would
be paid by the private sector. So what may appear profitable to government may be a loss making
venture for the private sector.
Development of an upgrading strategy
9.    It is important that the upgrading measures --investments in infrastructure and regulations-
- be consistent with an overall upgrading strategy which takes into account the spatial land use
issues confronting the city. The development of this strategy will also allow the staff of the
government urban planning department to redirect their skill and energy toward regulatory
activities based on solid analytical work and away from the design of detailed urban design.
schemes which should be left to the private sector.
10.   As part of the strategy, the city should prepare an upgrading scenario where middle term
(5 years) altemative transformations in land use and population densities are projected. This
strategy is not a plan nor a blue print, it is more a series of positions that the Municipal
government is taking on a number of issues taking into account the full implications of these
decisions and insuring that the various positions taken are fully consistent with the objectives. A
preliminary list of issues related to the upgrading ofthe.historical city are discussed below.
11.   Methodologv. The development of the upgrading strategy will be done in three stages:
first, a list of issues with a short discussion of the possible alternative ways of resolving them;
second, collection and anslysis of data which would be relevant to the issues; third, city officials
in consultation with private sector representatives take decisions on each issue; the expected
spatial outcome of the decisions taken should be sumrnarized in a land use model and a schematic
land use map which would represent the likely distribution of population, land use and
employment in the central district after a period of about 5 years. This projection is a concrete
reflection of the spatial outcome of the policy decisions taken. The land use projection is not an
approved plan nor a legal document, it is more a management tool, and can be amended any time
to reflect new circumstances. It is an anticipation of the private sector investments triggered by
the new regulatory framework and by government infrastructure investment decisions.



122
12.   To be usefil and operational, the preparation of a strategy document should not take more
than 3 months. It should be done mostly with the expertise available locally, using data already
available. In my opinion, once the scope and tasks of the strategy document are defined, a
number of local consulting firms could conduct all the work required, including the spatial analysis
and monitoring using GIS technology.
13.   The strategy guides the location of public and private investment alike. After the strategy
has been defined, the Physical Planning Department or a consulting firm contracted by the city
will conduct a careful spatial monitoring of the physical changes occurring in the central districts,
feeding back into the model the updated information. For instance it will be essential to monitor
the location, sale or lease price and usage of renovated historical buildings. The pace at which
communal apartments are consolidated into single apartments should also be monitored. This
monitoring is used to update the projection on a continual basis and eventually raise new issues or
change strategy on old issues.
14.   In order to help explain in less abstract terms what parameters could be essential in the
development of such a strategy, I have prepared (Annex 1) a simplified land use map of the
Admiralty and Central districts and a corresponding land use table representing the current
situation (using the data made available to the mission) and a 5 years projection based on a
number of policy decision provided for illustrative purpose. The methodology for preparing the
strategy is presented in Annex I together with summary terms of reference for such a study.
15.   Land use and regulatorv issues which should be Dart of the upgradin . Some of the most
important land use and regulatory issues which would have to be addressed by the upgrading
strategy are:
a)    Should the transformation from residential to commercial land use be limited by
renulation?.
The current pressure on the historical building stock tend to transform floor space
currently used for housing into commercial or office space. Indeed, it seems that in
many cases, upgrading is financially feasible only if such land use change is allowed
to occurs. The elimination of many down-town apartments has already happened
on a large scale in many cities of Eastem Europe (Warsaw, Budapest, Prague), and
are a constant concern in many Westem European cities (Paris, Lyon, Bologna).
Many urban planners do not consider it desirable that a city center be entirely
devoted to business activities and be empty of habitations. In former planned
economy the transformation of some of the residential space into commercial space
is necessary given the little floor space available for the service sector. Regulating
strictly this transforrnation could strongly hinder the development-of the economy
of the city and therefore should not be considered lightly.
I strongly recommend that St. Petersburg Urban Planning office monitors the pace
and the location at which this transformation occur before taking any regulatory
measures. In the case of St. Petersburg, the topography creates such large
accessibility differences within the 4 central districts that, relying entirely on



123
market forces, a balance between commercial and residential space could be
reached "naturally" without relying on regulations. The consequences of land use
changes triggered by market forces is an issue which will have to be -addressed by
the upgrading strategy.
b)    Spatial issues raised bv the relocation of households currentlv living in historical
structures.
All cities which have developed under a centrally planned economy tend to have an
inefficient density gradient and a widely dispersed population compared to cities
developed under a market economy '. The upgrading of historical structures and
the replacement of current households by either conmnercial and office space or
higher income households occupying more space per family will tend to lower the
density of the central districts and further aggravate the dispersed pattern of St.
Petersburg. This could results not only in longer commuting costs and a higher
energy consumption for transport but also in a social segregation of low income
population in distant suburbs. This relocation is presently occurring at a lirmited
scale, as new apartments are mostly built in the periphery. It is not inevitable that
this situation continue. St. Petersburg possesses vast reserves of highly accessible
underutilized industrial land which could be redeveloped to increase the supply of
middle and low income housing. The upgrading strategy will have to look into the
issue of dispersion and propose altemative to relocation in the periphery.
c)    Recycling of industrial land close to the historical district
According to a prelirminary mission estimates the Addmiralty and Central Districts
alone (see annex 1) contains more than 5 square kilometers of industrial land or
about 20% of the total district area and about 45% of all the salable area in the
district (salable area consists of all land not used for streets, canals, parks, utilities
and government ). However, extrapolating from employment survey and land use
maps it appears that more than 100,000 industrial jobs are still located within the
two districts. Within the framework of the strategy the municipal authorities will
have to address the issue of industry and job relocation.
d)    Land use standards to be used in non historical areas and in reconverted industrial
areas
The high cost of construction in upgraded areas and the high market value of the
most prestigious areas will attract a high income population into the central
districts. At the same time, low income households presently living in historical
buildings will have to be displaced. To compensate for this loss, it is important that
a large part of the housing stock of the central districts be affordable to middle and
low income households. The upgrading strategy should therefore recommend land
use standards which are compatible with the development of low income housing
in areas which are not part of the historical areas but are located in the central
see 'Cities Without Land Markets" World Bank Discussion paper # 227 by Alain Bertaud & Bertrand Renaud



124
districts, in particular in areas where industrial land can be recycled into residential
use. This will require keeping the same type of land use intensity than the one used
in thel,istorical part of town and not controlling the population density but let
affordability determine apartment sizes and standards. The Tolstowsky Dom, built
in 1905 by Fiodor Lidval on Fantanka canal is a good example of high intensity use
of land made culturally acceptable by imaginative design. The new land use and
zoning regulations which are being prepared for the center of the city should be
able to pass the following test: would they allow a modern replica of the
Tolstowsky Dom to be built? Land use regulations which will be compatible with
affordable housing for low -middle income households will also contnbute to the
spatial restructuration of St. Petersburg by increasing the density in the central
areas and decreasing the population dispersion.
e)    Transport
Many historical central districts have passed by several phases in their
dealing with transport. The first phase consists in frantically trying to adapt a city
center designed for carriages to accommodate individual car. During that phase,
new highways are built on or under river embankments and no building permits are
given without adequate facilities for off-street parking. In the second stage of
development, many cities realize that by trying to catch up with the automobile
they reach a point where they destroy the city itself and its public transport system.
At that phase, the provision of private parking space is discouraged. In developing
its upgrading strategy the city will have to decide what mode split of transport it
wants to keep and whether it is compatible with the economic activities which will
take place in the center. The decision to keep or decrease the 100, 000 industrial
jobs still provided in the central districts will be closely related to this traffic
option. The land use projection derived from the strategy will be the framework
under which transport planner could develop their own sectoral investment
program.
f)    Infrastructure and social services supply in renovated areas
The development of the upgrading strategy will provides an images of population
distribution and jobs in the central districts quite different from the present
situation. This will change the profile of demand. It will probably require an
adjustment of infrastructure and social service provision. The strategy will provide
the demographic figures on jobs and population spatial distribution for the different
sector agencies to develop their own program in support of the strategy.
g)    PhasinQ of upgrading and relocation
Finally, a realistic approach to upgrading will probably lead to the conclusion that
it is a long range process. When the city would have put in place all the regulatory
and fiscal instrument and the necessary infrastructure it will still not completely
dominate the renovation process which will depend on many exogenous factors. It
is therefore necessary that the phasing of the renovation of the entire stock be



125
realistically done. This phasing will have a number of policy implications. If the
formal renovation of the entire stock takes, say, 10 years, what should be the
policy toward apartments which are in very bad conditions but are unlikely to be
renovated in the near future? would the city have a budget for emergency repairs
of roofs and structure? would tenants be provided with incentive to repair their
own houses? Would occupiers of historical apartments have an incentive to see
their dwellings decay faster than would naturally occur in order to jump the queue
for renovation?
Projecting the pace of renovation: how many upgraded historical buildings are
likely to clear the market under current conditions?
16.          No matter how elaborate is the legislation concerning upgrading, the pace of
renovation will be dictated by market forces. At present, using the limited information available
on upgrading cost and market prices, it seems that only a small fraction of the stock would have a
post-upgrading market price higher than the cost of renovation. The streamlining of administrative
and regulatory procedure, the clarification of property rights, the improvement of building
technology, the wider availability of credit could increase the number of structures for which
renovation is economically feasible. However, for the majority of historical structures a complete
renovation is far in the future.
17.    At present the total number of apartments in the Central and Admiralty district is
estimated at around 150,000 units. The cost of the construction work for the renovation of a
listed historical buildine2 range from USS 500 to 1500 per m2. The average cost of relocation is
around S 800 per m2. In addition most developer have to pay back the city or the owners in kind
for the purchase of the structure representing about 20% of the renovated apartments. So the
average total cost of renovation (civil work, relocation and overheads) is around $1,800 per m2,
this would require a market sale price of at least $2,000 per m2. While some buildings in specific
location can fetch even a higher price, most locations and building quality are unlikely to justify
such a price when a new apartment in the periphery cost about $500 per square meter and an
unrenovated apartment in a central district but with undesirable location sell for $300 per m2. The
same exercise could be conducted for unlisted but protected buildings -buildings that are not
historical themselves but are located in a protected block where a number of constraints on
building bulk and materials do exist, thus increasing renovation costs.
18.          It would be important to complement the upgrading strategy with an evaluation of
the distribution of the current market prices of the entire housing stock of the central districts.
Graph I has been prepared for the Admiralty and Central districts to illustrate the methodology
proposed and how such an evaluation could be used to take strategic decisions. It is
recommended to develop one similar graph for each historical district. The figures used on the
graph are purely illustrative, but a rapid sample survey conducted on stratified samples and with
the help of a land use map could permit to conduct such an analysis very rapidly.
2 Historical building are on one of three lists :National, local or temporary list. The constraints on renovation are
the same for building on any of the list.



126
19.          On the horizontal axis of the graph are the market prices of renovated buildings
based on the distribution of the stock by location and building attractiveness. For instance the
highest price is reached by structure along the main canals, Nevsky Prospect and in general in the
eastern part of the Admiralty district. The lowest prices correspond to apartments located close to
the western industrial zone.
20.          The building stock is divided into 3 categories related to the cost of renovation. In
the first category are the listed historical buildings where the renovation work entails a large
amount of craftsmanship to keep up with the character of the building. In the second category are
buildina located in protected historical areas but which are not historical themselves. These
building are submitted to special regulatory constraints concerning building materials and exterior
shape and design but do not require costly finishing craftsmanship. The last category includes
buildings which are free of constraints except those from the current building code and the new
zoning regulations which are being prepared by government agencies. To each category of
building corresponds an average cost of renovation -- represented by vertical bars on the graph -
based on the regulatory constraints imposed by their historical character and a cost for relocating
present occupants. The buildings whose market price are higher than the cost line of their
category (to the right of the vertical line) clear the market, the other(to the left of the line) do
not. One can see on graph I that under current assumptions not even 5% of the stock is likely to
be renovated without subsidies.
21.          The graph can be used to take strategic decisions because the distribution of the
market price of buildings and the cost of renovating them will change over time. The objective is
of course to combine measures which would push as many building possible to the right of the
cost line i.e. increase their value. Several types of actions are possible for doing so. It should be
possible to increase the market value of part of the stock by ameliorating the infrastructure, the
maintenance of a neighborhood or removing some nuisance (for instance reconverting some of the
industrial areas). It should also be possible to move the cost lines toward the left by streamlining
administrative procedure, reducing investors risks by clarifying property rights, and disserninating
information.
Data Dissemination
22.   Data dissemination is going to be an important part of the strategy. It is essential that all
the data concerning upgrading, land use, regulations, demography and market prices be
disseminated as widely as possible. In particular, the addresses of buildings on the 3 historical
building lists, with location map should be published as soon as possible. Currently the two
published list, State and local, contains the name of historical "objects" to be protected. The
amount of floor space which is subject to historical building regulatory constraints should be
calculated as soon as possible. In addition the City planning office should draw a list (with
location map, floor space and current occupancy) of the historical buildings which are in the worst
structural conditions.



n KM     ZKH                 KMM                                   KH KM  K
CA[HHT IIETEPBYUYPrr
Admiralty  &   CentrallDstrict                                           P2
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1 



CAHKT-IETEPBYIr
COUHIAbHO-3KOHOMFMECKOE PAfIOHHPOBAHUE TEPPHTOPHH
IAEHTPAJ]bHOR 'ACTH CAHKT-flETEPEYPrA
/      .
s- 5,4 3C1
- 7
r~~~~~~~~~~~~          AoT lilienu
S~~~~            cr7xrV ''      ---"(  
XLe8   tv 7\'   I ,,Is,7 I                        C ;  
- - .  / . .  L.. /                  -e
v ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ , .
.....~~-".                     57AI~    ~4



-           ..-   ~~bi
_ _ r ~~~55-05
/.-        195.54       r-
a3  \        a4       !     120.37
job density           /     86.18                    r J   a5
LI~       L~             _Z  1~25.l6
lY                                        7    
552T                         a6   /
7   \   216.10  ...        /    ~~~a2   (176.26(
,X  2l6l0 -tu2318.40    , A
- lB8.66 14                                 />/N2B
/b   '     \a9                    a7                              A
ii04)4                   a 8  -     183.38/
f   b7      '                                  be'\
f~%~ (~162.82  b"  >bb5
K     ~~alO     V         9. 1     57.82  >
b 6          275.77                         --
1B2.217



,/b I 
X -       - -Z2 -1   -     b
o-a
29 4  79   ,,{1312
Grosss dens.tJes-
32.20 r<                           / -\   /35620
/   \   ~~~22?76    r -\>                           >  
/bB                 a7~~~~~~~~~~
I     V                                /      a2   (4900   (z                    0
10369 ~  23                         , X
__Y                 a_____1_ _ _--  a,l
b 6             a t-O -     -       1-L 8---



131
*J.sw,ju                        Thrie fgwes used in lhis:04s ate f4rat r'u!v9 p,ur,aose and do not nrecessartiy *Rect acDF sitaionfl
TABLE 1: ASSUMPTIONS ON CURRENT LAND USE AND FLOOR SPACE DISTRIBUTION IN THE ADMIRALTY DISTRICT
boldcuftols in sheded boxes               m           n         c             O                 r      SC                  1 U              w
art input of Ith model                            Land Are.    %                               Assumptond mode to  culat.
fth floo area and number.ta of o   n
Tot4t Are a                                                     1 1                                Land uSeintenmts
I      ."                                                                                   Averae .nurbi o*f Ciir5         _
P mnm rrO.mds                                        ;1., 80                                          iit; Pttyt ANA RAU 
L;9 t Sritts                                         4  '       %11                         Pe.7 6    rPsoll   r4sionflil NWo
I     Canals                                              i)j l I                                 o trtons per apafirneit
par ;1     Wao% in lNt!>tllC Nt1rFurn*ntr                 I  |t   IT
t3      ,                                                                                                     Jobs
14       Puic Ueonurnonts 'l% _
rN4mvemnrnt Bu'lnqs                        LZEftI3i
Communiw faciltlas                               It 7IT  IJPR1%
Salable LAW                                     I 2S  1            not
o.11e                                  ]                                 r^jn            *         <mt  I      -Hj
indui4ml                                                                                                   220
1 [          nP.idenbal &Cornmorcili                I      6121  2567*    I    I 4J3                                        I
C.rnnmmercial                                               L    *l O        TM
_ Residental                                                               U    7A5J11    4 55 %                                     i I I
m~~~~~~~o.w                                                                          %ofs tatolanetrosdonti   c       _um
Listod Hsticinca 8uelngs
Unhsoed bLA in Protected oreas                          =       3 t          1                 off
3                    UnlihsCd an unprotxetcd sraOi
lASS      100%        147.679    49.001
Ilr4acdry rnovet4d or in good cOndio.n                      18&  1 ;   2 6# 1 1       7T2 I10              I _S 0 4t1
not -et renovatel                                     I       S11      75d3 1  f dill    ^314                 7451  1
7.A55     '00%        147.571     410.001)
cormunal apdrtrnents                                         3So     . 45      I   7 A 1  272 l             .O 1   4 3X 1
4                mj~~~~~~~~Ildivual oplrtrnwsot                              4,102 1    5SW    !  107992T 1210340 1   1    is95 1               1
7.cSa     100% tO117.67t           *t0.0
.1J I iPlhnning ndlctort derved trorm prevlous assumptions
FA~J   I iros deinsiinhn  e 'nsmct                                                   190 peopl         Job CenelsC       X0  gem
Fjr1        ehit in residenal ore sin chuAc  oca    151rtin1                         $             I
ITABLE 2 PROJECTION Of LAND USE AND FLOOR SPACE DISTRIBUTION IN THE ADMIRALTY DISTRICT
414         REFLECTING AN UPGRADING STRATEGY over a 5 years perlod
m           ni        o      o      C                 s      t           u       V      w
taEI                                                 Land Area                                    A Asumption made to ealeulate
[S|911, rKrn21                                 floor area and numberocrop
T.:.teiLrq.A                                    1            7. KW                              mL ,"  use intenr rf
1        1                                                                                       Arageli numere olfoos
Pnmar roads                                          P19|   848% 1                          Floor Area Ratio
LV.a Strtolet                                            s IL`                   L                   &0715s r$ o Nttgroeslangl tor 1
Canals                                              r 18 1  2 25$1                          persons per apmement
Parks & Men Oublic MonumrntI 11 R l
Bult_up Area                                         m       I
ST -ch                                                                                               Jobs
Pubilc Monuments                          I         7t 1   2 s  Is
Gr.-ymmern Buirdlinqs                     r                                                                    ago
Corvvmnnie facilitts
8r1      S^jFroSalable Land                            I   1121i I    ,
Residetia                                                             itCrtezt n               l    bn_ 
in"mrtna                                      I      Am t I  is  lSI                            l  ftl00         ;240
aiiisid#nDsl . Omirriwill                            2"0i%    1    13e1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                         1  M -^ .         3 1.W .. 1 I-
Commercial                                                  l          I               eiral  I ,mu 90P  td
1 1         dWll*~~ofhah                                                                             515 Tir
Previously conimnrcil                                    1i_
ConvPeiNtd from residendstidol                            r
LI               Innew areas                                              L:                    I
22l                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.1 is  soorb
.4            Residental                                                                  55       I  tS2794 i  4780S71               5ti I _     l
Not Rsadedntial
1              dz ers                                        s~~0'WhN                     of totail n4t sdntlGorfKs
APantro'ntns in now statrea
renovated es aptnent during tne planning period        pu'       .             r   1
prevousti5 renotaed or in good Condition
1                   nnotVetrenovsted
7,474     I05%        132.764     471.057
c7romninal aoetonents consohdared dunno me oltn. Doenod   F     t   1   1 t    i   12 l   1 44 44441
communal apartnenta                                         255 1            1
individual apar4nIntS                                                          r        1      20l         r
[7                                                                                 7.174     100%         2279       478.017
SQ   IPlsnrrinmgIndicators derivte from  previouct ssumipUtns
90   |  Gross derisily in myre distnct                                              18l  pe0pteMa    Job Dcnsiry        207 jobMa
L91       O.nsrm eiiredeiriai areas  cludin tocaweer^s}                            1. F42   



132
ffl0.:Ppf4u*.xIS
TABLE I .a: EXTRAPOLATION OF AREAS MEASURED FROM LAND USE MAP
Measured from Land use map
area(km2)
Residential & Commercial (R&C)                  14.23
Industrial                                      5.70
Parks & Large Public Monuments                   3.15
Main roads                                      2.19
Canals                                           0.58
25.85
area(km2) %total
net R&C                              6.12    23.7%      43% %ofr&c
R& C community facilities            1.71     6.6%       th
R&C Local streets                    3.56    13.8%      25%
Public monuments                     0.71     2.8%       5%
Government buildings                 2.13     8.3%      15%
Net Industrial                       5.13    19.8%      90% % of industrial
Industrial local streets             0.57     2.2%      10%
Primary roads                        2.19     8.5%
Parks & Large Public Monuments       3.15    12.2%
Canals                               0.58     2.2%
25.85   100.0%



133
Tall I1 -Arsa mrnur d from map
AREA        Map raartence    huwecn   AREA    Map rmfr*nct .1wczcn   AREA         Mapirfeargice hjnrOf
0.231907 t               Car       0.12t452 cI          canals        0.049198 P1           pks          14.:3          .&TW11
0276001 10               etr       0030279 CIO          fanals        0.058467 PtO          oan           0.58          cUIs ThS
0820594 11               cpw       0017766 Ci1          canals        0.04t125 P11         9pa1           5. 70hllTorol
0.332151 12              Cow       0010081 Ct2          Canals        0.111140 P12          D4ws          3.15          pDeftT4al
05.24044 13              etr       0010828 C12          cnal          0.1t15108 P13         pkl           2i.t9         4 mrgeaTotI
0237601 14               ctr       0009633 C13          canals        005994T P14           poasr
0.057409 15              C8r       0 t27417 C14        enals         0.324969 PIS          pRo
0105t34 1e               ctr       0032005 CIS          canas         0325580 PIS          park
0116351 1T              t.ti       0 063610 C2          cA4as         0250105 Pi?          p&ll
0 56044 Is               ttr       002isa1 Ct           eanals        0077125 PIS           D kt
o 121384 19              C'r       0019755 CS           canals        0.323088 P19          pak
1693302 2               etr        0022379 CS           canall        0051852 P2           pDl
0081420 20               fjr       0014306 :t           canals        0.53078T  P20         pah
0011659 20A              ctr       0.031100 C1          canals        0.509472 P20          par
0O85587 21               c&r       0030714 CO            conls        0.038457 P21          park
0009-'00 22              car       0.5.J0328             canals Tel    0.070915 P3          pWks-
0083381 23               tar       0444375 INI          indusrlal     0022565 P4            pa"
0 76908  24              car       0 124041 INIO        andusaal      0.013751 PS           pas
0342116 25              ceS        0.074804 IN11       iantus eid     0.020017 P4           paOk
0.020144 26              tar       0.142489 1`412       mduual        0.0441" P7           gpu
0021260 27                ar      0d012028 INl2A         nduamal      0.017025 P8           Pam
0741773 28               CLr       0,126491 NINS        inIuslniu    0.032160 P9           pakl
0251072 29               Car       0037681 N14          fduUhai      3145361               pu,kToI
0338629 3                Ctf       0216028 INis         Indusat       2 91904 R             largeada
0475343 0                 &e       a 0033708 IfNiG      irnduaa       2.191904              lun reads eret
0864724 31               c.6r      0.233702 INl7        indusmal      14 230335             GOdTdtl
0279266 3?               c4c       0183134 INIS         unduwlal
0.273r29 33              c&:       0091459 INIt         tnduela
0 121760 34              car       0 109204 IN2          nduWal
0487516 35               eLf       0039695 1`20        rIfduwal
0.152709 36              Cr        0025285 IN21         rnduusd
00151t7 37               ci:f      0046497 IN22         undusStl
0040524 36               car       0048430 r1N23        Ifftwel
0 37078U 39              ci:       0 191289 IN24        industmal
0670S2M   4              cLf       0019910 b1,2S        w4umagl
0TISS76  5               ctr    0 140196 IN26           mnusial
0222248 4                c:        00.31754 IN27         INdwsal
0209144 7                cI,       0t83472 IN2t          Indusal
2 2102S t8                        007TS694 IN29       ineustnal
0012278 9                e'.r      0VrJ72j0 111         :rdusu,al
14'23035                  c&Total  0036762 INSO          undusmal
0294442 INA          indusua
o093t7r IN,5         mudu#rWa
0 122281 NO          induaglal
1251890 IN?          indureal
00440  lo            Induabal
OOS1528 Ng           irndluSal
5 69784              lnductral Total



134
TABLE 1.c: POPULATON AND JOBS mY SUB-ADMINISTRATVE AREA
a       -b   I        1   d     I       I     t                     h      II                - k    I    I
NAME    Map Ref. popufation Actle_.pop   jobs   AREA (Qn2) Indus Area  indusryf  hdusjob servjob   pop_dons Job_dns
/911     al        25.700    14.110   88,480     1.6026      0.1179       7%    6,508   81,972      16O      552
f922    a2         47,400    26.380   42,370     1.3307      0.0381       3%    1,214   41,156      356      318
f1  3    a3         5.500     2.930   14,720     1.7080         -         0%      -     14,720       32       as
11;24    a4        73,840    39,110   48,980     2.5049      0.1059       4%    2,071   46,9009     295      196
1915     a5        19,800    10980   18,160      1.5086      0.3819      25%   14,528    3,632      131      120
1916,   a6         41,400    22,950   15,180     0.8612      0.0361       4%      635   14.545      481      176
11;7     V7        45,730    25,440   24.430     1.3322      0.0774       6%    1.420   23,010      343      183
f1g8     aS        36,530    19,990   53,150     1.2399      0.1511      12%    6,478   46,672      295      429
19s1    a9         36,170    19,720   35,090     1.6238      0.2079      13%    4,493   30,597      223      216
f19110   dO        60,470    33,550   62.530     2.2875      0.4485      20%   12,369   50,161      267      276
0911     bi         1,660      080    7.480      1.3588      0.5958      44%    5.984    1,496       12      as
0912    b2          9,410     5,220   17.440     1.3934      0.8844      63%   13,952    3.488       so      125
0913     b3         3.410     1,890   10,S40     1.0670      0.2306      22%    2,278    8,262       32       s9
0914     b4         3,940     2,180    6,070     1.0498      0.9427      90%    4,8s5    1.214       38      s5
0915     b5        23.250    12,920   26,570     1.3590      0.2602      19%    5.087   21,483      171      19e
0918     bO        14,090     7,820   24.780     1.3589      0.5562      41%   19,eo8    4,952      104      182
0917     b7        41,630    22,700   20,660     1.2689      0.0263       2%      428   20.232      328      163
0918     bs           -               13.580     1.0116      0.6371      63%   10.864    2.718      *134
489,930   268,770  530.190    25.8469                        112,972  417,218
Souce:  Data hi Column a to . provided courtesy of 'PerspeetIva'. St Petersburg.
Column f to k measured or extrapolated fom land use map



135
St. Petersburg- distribution of apartment by market price In the Admiralty
3s5ooo                                                District
nset of                                                                     osat 
Uprtedl       ,1200/m2                                     $200Ur2
30,000   Judtlg bn .I- sa4e4
weMS                                           upgrading
un..ht d
~sooo                                                   aulidin s in
|                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mtar t  prcto S1i2
I            Y_
isUnlisted In Unprotected kreas
a  N din Protected Armas
*g Listed Histor[cai Buldins
5.000
-MarIRit prlc:F(US$ffi2)
lbs Nwus ni tiegrphraesawng tiedstnbuimonof the housingtock bysale prce armnat based  I~tald     am~ usead 1* to
Imtam fti matadalogy



o,z retersburg - Land Use
in Admiralty and Central Districts
Land Use
Park
Resi.&COM
S
2        7 I<ilometers



St. Petersburg - Residential Densities
in Admiralty and Central Districts   Fig. 2
Paks& Monurat
Irndusres
0- 106                          aP
107 -212
213- 318                  .
Wt-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t~
1   _12               4    5.   8   7 Kioria



't. Petersburg - Job Densities
in Admiralty and Central Districts                                                        FRg. 3
ME Parks & Monuments
Net Job density
L1162 -182
183 -303
666 - 786
00
S
1          0          1           2          3          4           5          6 Kilometers



139
A Model to Project land Use Changes Consistent with an Upgrading Strategy
A. List of Maps and Tables
hIaps
1.    Map 1: St. Petersburg: Land use map of Admiralty and Central districts
2.    Map 2:        4      residential densities in Admiralty and Central districts
3.    Map 3: "    "       : Job densities in     "4            " 
4.    Map 4: "    "       : Polygons (homogenous land use) used in land use table Lb
S.    Map 5: "    '       : Polygons (administrative areas) used for job and population
surveys table l.c (courtesy "Perspectiva" St. Petersburg).
6.    Map 6: Gross job density by administrative area;
7.    Map 7: Gross Residential densities by administrative area;
Tables
S.    Table 1: Land Use Model part 1: Assumptions on Current Land Use, Population, Jobs and
Floor Space Distribution;
9.    Table 2: Land Use Model, part 2: Projection of Land Use, Population, Jobs and Floor
Space reflecting an upgrading strategy;
10.   Table l.a: extrapolation of areas measured from land use map (Admiralty and central
District)
11.   Table l.b: Polygons area corresponding to Map I
12.   Table lc: Population and Jobs by administrative areas (Map 5,6 and 7)
B. Methodology
13.   The development of an upgrading strategy requires taking decisions on a number of issues.
Each decisions taken triger a chain reaction of physical and financial consequences which
are made explicit in the model. These physical consequences are then examined and tested
for their feasibility and desirability. If the the test is negative, strategic decisions have to be
iterated until the consequence are both feasible and acceptable
14.   For instance:
Example of Strategic Decisions
a)    50% of the listed historical housing stock will be upgraded in 5 years;
b)    Displaced tenants will receive a compensation of 1.5 m2 for each m2 vacated;



140
c)    no limits will be put on conversion of residential floor space into commercial and it
is expected that in 5 years the conmmercial space will have raised to 45% from the
current 35% of total floor space
15.          Physical consequence
a)    80,000 people in 25,000 apartments will have to be relocated;
b)    1,250,000 m2 will be recovered with a potential average market price of $ 900/m2
c)    1,875,000 m2 of floor space will have to be built
d)    the decrease or increase in number ofjobs and households in the central districts
Financial Consequences:
e)    Public investments
f)    Private investments
16.   The Model includes 4 mathematically interrelated parts:
a)    A digital land use map
b)    a land use data base directly extracted or extrapolated from the map
c)    a land use transformation model showing current land use and its transformation
after 5 years based on strategic decisions and assumptions on market trends;
d)    an histogram of representing the current market prices' distribution of the housing
stock;



Annex 13
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
ST. PETERSBURG CENTER CITY REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.     Background
The City Govermnent of St. Petersburg considers the rehabilitation of its historical area to
be among its highest priorities. The justifications for this priority include expected high
economic return to such activity through tourism, increased commercial and service activity,
preservation of culture, as well as the improvement of the living conditions of the population,
especially those who live in overcrowded communal accommodations without access to adequate
infrastructure.
In the past, housing was largely provided by state enterprises, the military and by the
municipality free of direct charges. Owing to a chronic shortage of housing, large segments of
the population, especially those living in the inner city, were allocated to communal apartments
in which often unrelated people shared rooms. Ironically, the center city had a much larger
concentration of communal apartments; after the revolution the properties of the wealth families,
which were located in the best parts of the center city, were taken over and divided among many
families. As a result, building and apartments which would have been particularly attractive for
the private sector development are often more complicated to acquire for redevelopment. The
families who share these flats, on the other hand, suffer from lack of privacy, overcrowding, poor
access to sanitation infrastructure and extremely poor maintenance of the exterior and interior of
their residence.
Citizens who were in communal, transitional or temporary housing, those who wanted to
get married and establish a family, those who were in unsafe homes, and those who were
allocated space well below the legally accepted standard of about 10 sq.m. per person were
entitled to a new allocation. There existed a long list of residents waiting for re-allocation of
somewhat more adequate housing; this re-allocation was commonly referred as "relocation" and
the process as "resettlement."' As is the case today, there was high demand among those in the
I      It is essential not to confuse this terminology with the involuntary resettlement resulting from development
projects. In St. Petersburg, except for the occupants of buildings certified unsafe for human habitation, both the de
jure and the de facto situation excludes any possibility of involuntary resettlement. In those cases where a building
has to be evacuated for safety reasons, the State is under obligation to provide at least three choices before a family
is resettled.
The Housing Code of 1982 (Chapter 10) of the Russian Federation defines the basis for eviction and
restricts it to the following categories: temporary workers temporarily housed in company boarding houses;



142
waiting list (the majority of whom were residents of communal apartments) to be relocated;
indeed, the citizens strongly feel that they are entitled for relocation to private residential space
having already waited years for one. In the past, it usually took over ten years to get a new
allocation (or to be "relocated"), "but the system worked". However, the ability of the public
2
sector to continue to play the role of the provider of housing has dramatically weakened .
3
According to a recent (1994) study , only 2.2 percent of households in St. Petersburg were
4
allocated housing through the waiting list mechanism4.
Currently, some 325,000 families or 850,000 people are in the official waiting list and are
entitled for relocation. Thus, "relocation" has historically been an entitlement, and acquisition of
5
a relocation home meant a long awaited improvement in housing conditions . There has been a
dramatic reduction in the ability of the public sector to allocate housing to tenants of communal
housing in the past years. Instead, a relatively rapid process of private transactions are taking
place in well maintained prestigious buildings whereby residents of communal flats are provided
with independent flats in exchange for the original flat they share with others. However, there is
need to expedite this process. This will depend largely in putting the right policies in place and
workers who loose their jobs because of illegal/criminal behavior and who live in company housing, and those who
voluntarily quit their jobs with a company but occupy company housing. The only other concrete possibility for
eviction from municipal, state or enterprise housing is limited to those cases where the family clearly occupies a
residential space illegally, without being allocated to that space. Even these cases are subject to a court review
before a decision is made whether or not the State has the responsibility to resettle the concerned families. In
enterprises which are closed down, even when enterprise housing is not available, the State is under obligation to
provide housing for the families concerned.
There are additional by-laws and amendments to the Law of 1982; those which are made in 1989 at the
State level and the amendments made for St. Petersburg in 1993. There is need to obtain full text of these texts for
further analyses. Some of these more recent amendments to the Housing Code specifies the condition of eviction of
a tenant from a privately owned home; however, no such act can be enacted without full review by a court.
2      The housing reform in Russia, and accordingly in St. Petersburg, began in 1992 with the suspension of
centralized funding for housing construction and major repairs from the State budget and the privatization of
municipal flats. The result was that in 1993, the rate of housing construction in St. Petersburg was a tenth of its
1989 level and refurbishment was transferred to the private sector completely. To ensure refurbishment of their
privatized homes, many owners have sought to let their space as "office space" with the effect that office space in
the city was renting for $600 per square meter per annum, more expensive than New York (Baranov 1994).
3      Commissioned jointly by USAID and the World Bank.
4      During the past two years, the public sector provision of relocation homes have practically stopped except
for three homes created specially for the elderly, accommodating about 70 families each.
5      According to the 1994 USAID/World Bank Study, nearly 10 percent of households in St. Petersburg were
able to improve their housing situation over the 5 years prior to the survey; of these about a fifth did so through re-
allocation. However, when the households were asked whether they improved their housing situation in 1993,
about 5% percent responded affirmatively. Of these, less than one tenth did so through the re-allocation process
(waiting list).



143
providing sufficient incentives for the private sector to have a safe and profitable environment to
function .
There is also need to strengthen public programs of housing allocation to tenants of
unsafe municipal housing7. It appears that the location, zonal and historical characteristics of
8
these buildings provide disincentives for private sector development . It also poses a broader
issue of urban management when severely reduced public resources will further accelerate
9
deterioration of the existing housing stock
2.     Overall Objectives of Social Assessment for the Engineering Loan
Social assessment is a process which provides an integrated framework for
incorporating participation and social analysis into the design and delivery of Bank-assisted
operational and analytical work. In the context of the St.Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation
Engineering Project, social assessment will consist of establishing the needs and priorities of
different stakeholders, ensuring that their interests are reflected in the alternative models
developed for the rehabilitation of the city, and developing mitigation plans for any negative
social impact that may be implied by any of these models.
Perhaps the most important issue to be addressed by the social assessment of the St.
Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Engineering Project will be the identification of
mechanisms for citizen participation in the rehabilitation process. Given the current level of
private sector development and the diminished strength of the public sector as the provider and
safe keeper of the housing stock, it is evident that citizen's energies has to be released and
directed towards this goal. There are no easy solutions and one that would be applicable across
different socio-economic groups cannot be found.
6      Discussions held with developers point out that the current arrangements for 50/50 sharing of finished
apartments between the municipality and the developers do not provide sufficient incentive to the private sector to
rehabilitate many buildings. The uncertainties concerning turn key mechanisms for rehabilitation activities also add
to these disincentives.
7       In the Center city alone there are 300 such buildings; of these 28 represent immediate danger and are
occupied by 890 families. The City has a program that would allow only half of these 28 buildings to be evacuated
over the next years.
8      A pre-feasibility of an emergency pilot program (as part of the engineering loan) to accelerate public sector
assistance to these families is therefore recommended.
9       Several experts met believe that such deterioration is evident and that the slow pace of development of
tenant or condo associations contribute to this factor.



144
Thus, the social assessment will be an ongoing and continuous function, built into the
project implementation. It will consist of social studies as well as social impact evaluation of
technical and economic studies undertaken in the context of the project. It will provide a
participatory process whereby a system of consultation and public hearings will be integrated
into the project implementation and community participation in alternative rehabilitation models
will be among major project outputs. Likewise, contributions of different categories of
stakeholders will be sought for the identification and implementation of pilot projects.
3.     Procedures for Social Assessment
The Terms of Reference Outlined here provides:
* a broad framework for the participatory approach that needs to be adopted;
* defines the scope for the type of social issues to be investigated; and
* proposes the following type of surveys focusing primarily on the Center City:
(a) needs assessment surveys with special modules designed for the particularly
vulnerable groups;
(b) affordability and willingness to pay surveys carried out with a representative sample
of 'resident" groups identified below; and
(c) housing/residential mobility surveys to understand the social dynamics of urban
development and to design policies and projects that would help strengthen socially and
economically desirable processes.
Needless to say, unless otherwise justified (by the consultants), there is no need to
undertake several different surveys. Rather, the issues identified under (a)-(c), above, can be
covered by one research instrument10. Although several relatively recent surveys are available
(e.g., affordability survey of 1994), their results do not appear to be well analyzed. More
importantly, the sub-sample they provide for Center City socio-economic trends analyses is
extremely small and not easy to disaggregate. From qualitative studies and expert interviews11, it
10     Likewise, unless otherwise shown to be essential by the consultants, city wide surveys are not
recommended given the limited territorial scope of the Engineering Project. Should information be needed to
compare Center City trends with trends elsewhere in the city, there is potential to use some of the more recent
survey information (such as those prepared for the Housing Project). It is also possible to rely on expert knowledge.
I I    As well as such physical clues as "new windows" which indicate business take over of private residential
property



145
is clear that a dynamic process of social change is in place in the Center city and thus new and
comprehensive information will help guide the Proposed Project in a systematic fashion.
These representative surveys need to be complemented by such social assessment tools as
"focused group discussions" and "participant observations". Qualified local social scientists are
available to undertake these work.
Through these quantitative and qualitative social investigations, a social map of the
Center city should be developed. This geographical specificity of the social data is important to
stress in order for the social assessment to provide sufficient guidance for the formulation of the
follow-up investment projects to the proposed Engineering Loan.'2
4.     Policy and Pilot Project Focus
The proposed social assessment also suggests social impact assessment of (a) policies to
be developed under the project, and (b) the pilot projects to be defined for implementation.
Social impacts of policies, Laws and regulations regarding:
(a) private land ownership;
(b) privatization of rooms in communal apartments;
(c) tenant and condo associations
(d) zoning regulations are particularly important and should be undertaken for each of the
stakeholder groups identified in the following section.
This earlier phase of the social assessment also makes an attempt to suggest several pilot
projects for implementation under the engineering loan. These consist of the following (and can
be further defined for the appraisal of the project):
(a)    "Bed-and-breakfast" type of tourism development in the Center city to (i) enhance
household income: (ii) encourage productive use of residential space: (iii) facilitate households'
ability to pay real estate taxes; (iv) encourage development of tenant or condo associations; and,
most importantly, (v) mobilize citizen participation in the urban rehabilitation process'3;
A computerized and geographically specific registration data may be available and can be used as a
baseline.
13     There is a small network of families who have already started this type of activity and this network can be
used to legalize and expand the process.



146
(b)    Support to the private sector development of condo management institutions and
carry out a large scale public education program on citizen ownership of urban rehabilitation14;
ic)    Support the development of commercially viable housing for the care of the
elderly
16
(d)    Support the city administration for an emergency evacuation program
5.     Specific Objectives of the Social Assessment
Specifically, the social assessment to be carried out for the Project will be carried out as
an integral part of the other studies and pilot projects to be prepared under the Project and will:
(a)    identify key interest groups (stakeholders) and establish an appropriate framework
for their participation in the project development and implementation;
(b)    ensure that alternative rehabilitation models developed, pilot projects identified,
study tours organized" and the incentives for change underlying these are acceptable to the range
of people intended to benefit, and that interest of key social groups (different categories of
tenants, the elderly, women, etc.) are reflected in these;
(c)    assess the social impact of alternative rehabilitation models, policies, regulations,
etc. developed during project implementation and the pilot programs defined and ensure that
they have no adverse effects. If such effects are anticipated, develop satisfactory mitigation
plans to minimize negative impacts; and
14     Currently, the municipality has a monopoly over maintenance activities and the development of a
competitive housing management environment would be particularly beneficial to the consumers.
15     The municipality has recently completed a housing project for the elderly; however, the costs are high and
there are no plans for even the cost recovery of operations expenses.
16     A public fund has been established for this purpose; however, the resources are inadequate and an
implementation plan in not in place.
"7     Many development projects confine their 'study tour' and 'training' activities to the immediate
stakeholders: the borrower agency personnel. A participatory projet, on the other hand, should make a broader
assessment of stakeholder needs for training. An immediate study tour or training component of the project may
consist of supporting the private sector development for condo management (in support of the pilot projects
suggested under (c), below).



147
(d)   develop capacity within the project implementation framework to enable
participation, resolve conflicts, permit service delivery, and carry out mitigation as required.
6.    Mitigation
Preliminary analysis of the social processes involved clearly indicate differential impact
of housing policies and project on different stakeholder groups. Anticipated mitigation measures
consist primarily of policy interventions rather than public sector investments. For instance,
over the past few years about 100 construction firms have basically assumed full responsibility in
facilitating the access of residents of communal apartments to private flats; policies that would
hinder, retard or halt the private sector initiative are thus likely to negatively impact this
particularly vulnerable group. The solution is in putting the appropriate policies in place.
Involuntary resettlement or involuntary relocation is unlikely to be an issue during
the course of the Engineering Loan preparation or implementation. The issue is whether or not
one or more of the projects prepared under this loan may lead to projects involving involuntary
resettlement. Because of the need to maintain the historical integrity of the Center city, none of
the projects that may be prepared with financing from the proposed engineering project is
expected to cause resettlement. No changes in road infrastructure is envisioned; and other
possible infrastructure projects will have to consist of rehabilitation of the water and/or the
heating systems. Should, however, be any projects identified and prepared for possible
investment under the proposed engineering project involve involuntary resettlement, the social
assessment team will put the World Bank Operation Directive on Involuntary Resettlement in
effect and will prepare a resettlement plan as per this ODs instructions.
7.    Definition of the Participation Framework
Stakeholder definition
A broad range of stakeholders with different, but not necessarily conflicting, interests is
identifiable for the development of the Center City. The highly heterogeneous composition of
the center city makes the formulation of an approach that would be acceptable to the whole range
of stakeholders difficult. It is therefore essential that the social assessment defines the most
critical groups and ensures that policy and project impact assessment is undertaken separately for
each of these.



148
Of the many stakeholders, those residents of the communal apartments are the most
vulnerable and require a special focus. It is therefore essential that all legislative, policy and
engineering proposals developed within the framework of the engineering loan carry out a social
impact assessment for this group as well as for other low income families.
While in the short time available for the preparation of this TOR a claim for a
comprehensive identification of all stakeholders cannot be made'8, key interest groups appear to
be the following:
(i)    St. Petersburg Municipality: Other than being the borrower, the client, and the
counterpart implementation agency, the municipality is the single largest owner of the housing
19                          20                                          21
stock in the Center city  . In its seven sub-districts , municipal ownership ranges from 93%   to
599%22. Given the continuing political unclarity of landownership, municipal ownership of
23
land also expands to the privatized housing stock  , thus increasing the stake of the municipality
24
in urban rehabilitation  . The municipality is also the single largest manager of the housing
stock; its crews provide maintenance services throughout the city, even to the privatized
buildings25.
Is     And thus the implementation of the TOR would require an independent assessment of all key stakeholders.
19      By 1995, about 338,000 apartments have been privatized in St. Petersburg. This allows the right to sell or
lease and has been an important contributor to the process of socio-economic homogenization of buildings. Those
with financial means, have been selling their sma1l size apartments and buying larger units in more prestigious
buildings and neighborhoods. This process also contributes to the development of tenant or condo associations.
20      Four of these have been combined about a year ago into a larger "Central" sub-district. It appears
advisable for the engineering project to define a territorial scope not broader than this new sub-district.
21     With 1993 official figures received from the St. Petersburg Statistical Committee (Annex 1).
22     In other districts and outskirts, municipal ownership is substantially lower, and the share of enterprise
housing, private housing as well as cooperative housing (not reflected in available statistics) is significantly higher.
23      This situation also provides an important disincentive for privatization. Especially in deteriorated stock of
housing, tenants are particularly reluctant to participate in the privatization program not only because they will have
to pay taxes and assume greater responsibility for maintenance, but also because State responsibility for re-
allocation or relocation ceases once homes are privatized. For instance, if a building bums down or becomes
otherwise inhabitable, the public sector assumes no responsibility for the private owners. Thus, tenants of older
housing stock query the logic for the privatizing their apartments.
24     While the Law for Condo Associations has not been adopted, there is a Presidential Decree. Accordingly,
private home owners organizing themselves around such associations become legal owners of land. What this really
means when the sections of the Civil Code relevant for private landownership is not yet in effect is, however,
unclear.



149
Within the municipal structure, there are of course many departments, each with their
own responsibility and interest: the department of construction and rehabilitation, of cultural
heritage, of relocation department, etc. The representation of all relevant departments in a
26
steering committee is no doubt important
The local government has much in stake in ensuring a dynamic rehabilitation program for the
city. Its political ranks will owe the continuity of their office to the success of this process; those
in technical and professional roles within the local government have the potential to shape their
career to the same success.
It is also worth noting that within the formal municipal maintenance monopoly, an
informal housing maintenance system is growing, but requires a legally acceptable definition27.
Nevertheless, it is increasingly necessary to consider the maintenance crew of the municipality
as an independent stakeholder, one which may resist formal private sector development in
condo management.
(ii)      Residents. Several categories of residents are distinguishable, but little is known
about their socio-economic characteristics 8. While varying from one group to the other, there is
a remarkable lack of energy within the resident groups to contribute positively to the city's
rehabilitation efforts. Despite extremely high levels of dissatisfaction with the housing
conditions, residents do little to improve their own private space, let alone contribute to the
maintenance of common spaces. Obviously, part of the answer lies in historically conditioned
behavior patterns and the sharp fall in purchasing power of lower income groups during the
transition period. Yet, the prevalent levels of citizen passivity cannot all be accounted by these
factors. As already stressed, there is need for the social assessment to develop a better
One of the key "pilot" activities under this project may consist of support to the development of municipal
monopoly in maintenance management.
26     The mission has already received recommendations concerning the composition of this Steering
Committee; thus, the stakeholder analyses presented here focuses primarily on the participation framework for non-
municipal actors.
27     All municipally owned buildings have cleaning personnel on municipal payroll. If tenants really want the
cleaning to be done, however, a direct payment is often to be made to the person in charge. If painting, repair and
similar work is needed, without direct payment to the "master" services are rarely received. The municipality sends
the master craftsmen with the understanding that he would receive some direct payment. Because the demand for
such payment is not strictly legal, charges are in accordance with the general level of affordability of the customers.
The heterogeneous social composition of apartment buildings coupled with lack of tenant associations makes it
difficult for some of the masters to operate fully independently in the private sector.
23     It is therefore recommended that this initial stage of the social assessment (corresponding to stakeholder
identification) carry out a survey of stakeholder characteristics).



150
understanding of these issues and identify mechanisms or incentives which would help mobilize
citizen participation in urban rehabilitation29.
Owners of privatized housing stock. These are owners of some of the non-communal
apartments who have chosen to register the residence they were occupying to their own names
and have thus accepted to pay a certain real estate taxes30. Because privatization provides the
right to sell, inherit or give away property, those who have left (for other countries), old age
pensioners and tenants whose flats include a surplus of space compared to the stipulated standard
were the first to privatize3'.
A rapid transfonnation of the existing communal housing stock, better management of
the buildings, the development of tenant or condo associations, the finalization of legislation
dealing with private land ownership, development of a competitive housing maintenance system
are all among the major stakes of this group.
Tenants of individual flats owned by the municipality. This is a highly undefined and
fluent group and the largest resident stakeholder group within the center city. It is therefore
critically important to establish the socio-economic characteristics of this group, their levels of
affordability, their expectations with respect to housing and, especially, their information
requirements for key decisions concerning privatization, tenant association formation, etc. They
have much to gain from a successful privatization program, but this can only be articulated if
their current behavior patters are better understood.
Tenants of communal housing owned by the municipality. As mentioned above, this
is a particularly vulnerable group, consisting of about 20% of all residents of St. Petersburg at
32
large, and about a third of the residents of the center city  . It is obvious that they are the least
29     It is worth noting for instance, that major improvements in the potable water supply infrastructure of the
center city is impossible without full citizen participation in leak prevention. Current levels of household level
leakage appear extremely high, with potential for positive action difficult given the highly deteriorated condition of
the housing stock and the high incidence of communal tenancy.
30     Despite the fact this is less (one/tenth?) than one percent of the assessed value of the property, many
residents shy away from privatization because of fear of taxes. An affordability study carried out in December 1994
by the Urban Institute found that majority of the citizens could afford to pay only twice as much as they did for rent
(consisting primarily of utilities) when they were charged only 1/5th of the actual cost of these utilities. Although
the rent levels were adjusted subsequent to (or as a result of) the study, the scientific team also established a huge
default rate with many citizens not paying at all and the majority reluctant to pay taxes.
31     There has been a net outmigration from the city and a decline in population by about 200,000. This has
created a breathing space in housing, thus allowing the private sector to move in, buy from occupants of communal
housing, relocate them in apartments privatized, and sell newly emptied flats to pritave owners.



151
influential and lowest income groups. The representation of older age groups and pensioners
within this group is particularly high. A communal flat of 4-5 bed rooms usually accommodates
3-4 families or about 9-1 1 persons which share a kitchen, bathroom and toilet. Among them is
also a large group of "specially privileged" citizens who because of their contributions to the
Second World War, to the Siege of St. Petersburg, etc., are promised an individual flat.
There are no legal basis for any authority to relocate this group in parts of the city which
may be less congested; or is there any hidden agenda for doing so. It is nevertheless obvious that
communal tenancy is a major bottleneck for the rehabilitation of the city as well as a major social
problem that needs consolidated attention. For the same reason, it is worth repeating that the
process of social assessment continuously focus on this group, understanding their needs and
expectations well, and assessing potential impacts of all proposed policies and programs from
their perspective33.
Owners of cooperative housing. There are a number of cooperative housing residents in
the city. Experts estimated the total housing stock of cooperatives as 16% of the total, but what
portion of this total is within the center is yet to be established. How new housing policies effect
this group of residents and how their energies can be mobilized for center city rehabilitation is to
be assessed.
Tenants of enterprise housing. The city's housing situation is markedly influenced by
industrial enterprises which maintain hostel and company housing. Holding on to such
accommodation is unprofitable while raising the rents is legally prohibited. Attempts to tum
hostels into hotels have met the resistance of their tenants. Meanwhile the city cannot take
ownership or responsibility for the hostels and the solution requires consultations both with the
residents of enterprise hostels and with the enterprises themselves. The extent to which these
issues are pertinent for Center City development is yet unknown; there is nevertheless a
substantial stock of enterprise housing within the Center (Annex 1).
Temporary residents. There is a relatively large group of temporary residents in the
city, but no statistical information is available about them. This group includes students, job
hunters, and many others who may be registered in a different part of the city or in another city.
32     The data of the 1989 census shows 3,209,000 people (1, 099,000 families) living in one family flats; 1,
118,000 people (485,000 families) living in communal flats; 28,000 people living in houses; 400,000 people living
in residential hostels; several thousend people living in barracks, and 20,000 people officially homeless.
33     For instance, there is a proposed legislation to allow residents of communal apartments to privatize their
own rooms within a flat. While such a move would allow these citizens to sell their rooms and look for another and
individual flat, it would also remove them from the waiting list of people with entitlement for an individual flat.
Given low incomes and the low value of a room in a communal flat, many social analyst rightly point to the
potentially damaging implications of this proposal.



152
They also include people who can or expect to make multiple claims for privatized apartments in
different parts of Russia.
Tenants of boarding homes. There appears to be a relatively large group of people
living in boarding houses. While some of them may be enterprise employees, others are reported
to be pensioners and the elderly. Little is known about their housing conditions, entitlements and
expectations.
Tenants in social homes. There are several homes for the elderly in the Center city.
Those visited are new and provide good quality accommodation to the elderly, predominantly
elderly women with long and recognized careers. The conditions of other social homes (if any
available for the disabled, or the veterans, etc.) is unknown.
Tenants/owners of homes which generate income. There is a growing number of
professional families with relatively good accommodation who are putting a room within their
flats for tourists. An informal network exists and should be studied in order to built a pilot
project to support them. This type of an initiative could be particularly valuable for St.
Petersburg should its intention of hosting the Olympics come true.
The Elderly. St. Petersburg as a whole and the Center city in particular has a large
elderly population (over 30%); the majority of the elderly are women and constitute a large
proportion of those in communal apartments. Again, a large majority of this group belong to the
'special cases' of veterans of wars, etc., and are also at the top of the "waiting list". In February
1994, the Russian Government expressed its intention of supporting housing construction by
making available specially allotted credits for the purchase of housing on the market to those
citizens who have been longest on the housing waiting list. The majority of these are elderly
women. As yet, the law has not been passed. Should the law pass, there is danger that these
credits may be swallowed simply by the corporation's putting up the property prices without
increasing construction.
The Homeless. The number of the homeless are obscured by the fact that vagrants,
beggars, alcoholics are not in a hurry to register themselves. According to experts (Sokolov
1994), there are 30-50,000 homeless in St. Petersburg and they can be seen in the Center city
markets, parks and other common places. A social survey has recently been undertaken by a GO
with this group and local experts believe the existence of a correlation between housing
privatization and homelessness.
Special groups. Much of the confusion in the housing allocation results from various
rules laid down by the Supreme Soviet and Russian Government which stipulates 'special case'
allocation to a substantial number of social categories such as the military, police and detectives,
employees of the office of the public prosecutor, refugees, Afghan war veterans, Chernobyl



153
victims, etc. In St. Petersburg, it is very difficult to find housing for all these categories;
nevertheless political and populist considerations require consideration of their needs. In 1993, in
order to eliminate distortions in the distribution of the limited public housing available the
Petrosoviet adopted a special limitation in the distribution of housing by singling its focus on the
official 'waiting list' only. Given the political realities, however, an assessment of the needs of
these groups appears advisable.
Owners of summer homes. According to the USAID financed survey of 1994, about a
fourth (26%) of all households in St. Petersburg own summer homes; this percentage is higher
for the residents of the Center City.34 Several processes are evident and may have an impact on
the Center City rehabilitation process. First, many households with this type of housing have
been planting food in their gardens, generating in-kind income. Secondly, those with resources
have been expanding and re-building their second homes and some have started permanent
residence there, making their Center city residence available for sale or rent. Parallel to this
process, a substantial level of building (villas) is reported in the outskirts of the city by the
wealthy families; this process too releases housing for sale or rent in the Center city. Regulations
concerning these developments therefore will have an impact on urban rehabilitation process and
their social impacts need thus to be studied.
(iii) Business community
Several categories of the business community have a particular stake in the rehabilitation
of the Center city:
Construction firms and developers
Brokers and real estate firms
Banking Community
Businesses in search of rental space in the city
Engineering and Architectural Firms
Building Materials Companies
For each of these categories of business, there is an informal sector as well as a rapid
growing formal sector. Preliminary discussions held with representatives of these groups clearly
34     Center city residents also have higher incomes and a visibly higher than average car ownership.



154
point to the need to assess their interest, the positive and negative contributions they make to the
rehabilitation processes, possible conflicts of interest among themselves, and between them and
the other stakeholder groups.
(iv)   Donors and International and Bilateral Development Agencies
8.    Proposed Mechanisms for Participation
These can be summarized under four headings:
(a)   Information sharing
(b)   Consultation
(c)   Collaboration
(d)   Ownership
For purposes of information sharing, three mechanisms are appropriate:
(i)   select number of public hearings on key policy issues and final project draft
outputs;
(ii)  targeted public education activities. Some of these will support broad range
reform agenda (such as the condo association developments), while others may target special
groups (e.g., in support of the development of a private sector condo management capacity); and
(iii)  targeted study tours or training programs as discussed above.
Consultative mechanisms are proposed for all resident groups identified and for business
community. Under municipal leadership and ownership, a Steering Committee may be
organized with representation from these groups for consultation purposes. The representation of
the business community can be ensured through the participation of the relevant associations,
chambers and boards. Citizen participation is currently made difficult by the fact that the status
of the groups identified are highly fluent and interchangeable, there is lack of NGOs, and a
general mistrust and disinterest in civil society development. It is therefore proposed that several
expert social scientists (or the Institutions they work in) represent the "interest of the
stakeholders" on the basis of "focused group meetings" to be held with relevant citizen groups
prior to the consultative meetings. Needless to say, systematic social assessment results will also
provide views of the resident groups to the Steering Committee. Several names are worth
suggesting for further discussions with the City administration:



155
Prof. Nikolai Kornev and
Prof. Igor Travin of the Inst.of Sociology
Dr. Pietz Shelish, Parlimentarian and the President of the
Russian Association of Consumers, Sociologist
Prof. Galina Starovoitova, anthropologist
Prof. Gilinsky, criminologist, Inst. of Sociology
Collaborative mechanisms will be in place within the different Departments of the City
Administration and will be defined under the institutional development framework of the
proposed project.
Ownership is sought at two levels: local government, through participatory inputs
defined above, will develop and take full ownership of project outputs. Donors will provide the
needed financial and technical assistance. Ownership is also envisioned for the identification and
the implementation of the pilot projects.
9.    Schedule
As outlined throughout the Terms of Reference, the social assessment in an integral part
of project development and implementation.
10.   Budget
The specific inputs defined for the social assessment are estimated to cost $300,000. The
participation cost will depend on whether study tours are organized, training held and public
education programs are conducted. Excluding these, the participation costs are estimated as
$200,000.






Annex 14
ST. PETERSBURG CENTER CITY CENTER REHABILITATION
PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF THE BLOCK 130 PILOT
PROJECT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    This Environmental Assessment was prepared by the St. Petersburg State
Architectural Institute and Regional Environmental Geology Center, a division of the
State Geological Enterprise Nevskgeologiya, in accordance with (i) the Russian
Federation and St. Petersburg environmental legislation and regulations.
2.    Russian Federation and city of St. Petersburg intend to implement proposed St.
Petersburg Historic City Center Rehabilitation Engineering Project, to be financed in part
by a loan from the World Bank. The proposed Project will include, along with provision
of technical assistance and capacity building, several pilot projects to develop , test, and
demonstrate efficient and effective mechanisms for rehabilitation of the historic center of
St. Petersburg. One of the above mentioned pilot projects will be implemented within the
city Block 130 and will consist of (i) creation of a pedestrian mall between the
Mayakovsky and Vosstaniya streets; (ii) replacement of the heating plant and network
within the Block and rehabilitation/replacement of utility infrastructure; and (iii) soil
removal and. Block 130 was selected for the pilot project implementation and related
intensive studies because it is representative of conditions that exist elsewhere in the
center. While the relatively limited physical works are planned under the pilot project,
some impacts and disturbances are unavoidable and need to be considered and mitigated
in course of the project planning and implementation. At the same time, successful
implementation of such projects will allow to develop and replicate mechanisms for
improving environmental conditions in the entire St. Petersburg city center.
Background and Baseline Environmental Conditions
3.   Initial development of the Block 130 can be traced back to the late XVIII century.
Its territory was primarily used for residential construction, with currently existing
building stock erected mostly in the XIX century . In addition there are several public
buildings, including a maternity hospital and secondary school, located in the inner part
of the Block, an area previously occupied by the public Italian Gardens.



158
4.    Existing environmental conditions within the Block 130 are characterized by the
following:
Air
Two old heating boiler plants located within the Block 130 account for most of point
source air pollution.. Pollution levels, generated by the boilers, normally are relatively
moderate: SOx concentrations are always significantly below Maximum Permissible
Concentration (MPC), and CO concentration is higher than MPC only under calm air
conditions. Exception is NO2 concentration which is generally nearly twice as high as
MPC. Wind direction does not appear to have significant influence on air pollution levels.
Automobile traffic is another major factor, contributing to non point pollution. Block 130
is bordered by Nevsky Prospekt, the major thoroughfare in the city center and primary
area of the automobile related pollution.
Water
There are no permanent surface water bodies within the Block. As the Block is supplied
with water through the centralized network, local groundwater sources are not used for
either commercial or household purposes. Depth to surface of the first aquifer is very low.
Considering that the existing storm water drainage and sewer system is well past its
useful life period, groundwater contamination via infiltration and pipe leakage is quite
possible.
soils
Geochemical soil surveys undertaken within the Block 130 as part of this Environmental
Assessment indicated significant heavy metal contamination. For instance, concentrations
of lead, zinc, cadmium, copper, and nickel exceed Provisional Permissible Concentration
(PAC) by more than one order of magnitude. Extent of contamination with organic
compounds was not determined during the Assessment.
Radioactivity, Noise and Electromagnetic Pollution
Radioactivity within the Block does not exceed acceptable background levels. Nevsky
Prospekt and other streets surrounding the Block, generate noise levels of up to 76 dB.
There are 7 power substations within the Block boundaries, with electromagnetic
emission levels estimated to be below maximum acceptable.
Vegetation
About 2 ha. of the Block territory out of total 13 ha. are covered with vegetation, mostly
poplar trees (with some lime, maple, elm, and birch) and grass lawns. Public park is
located in the central part of the Block. State of vegetative cover is unsatisfactory , with
substantial backlog of overdue landscape management measures.



159
Environmental Benefits
5.    Several project alternatives were considered. Implementation of the proposed pilot
project is expected to bring substantial positive environmental impacts including , but not
limited to, the following:
*  substantial reduction of point source air pollution and increase in energy
efficiency due to replacement of the old boiler plants by the new, less fuel-
consuming and more energy efficient.
*  reduction of power losses and decrease in electromagnetic pollution via
rehabilitation/replacement of power distribution network;
*  reduction of water consumption/losses and soil/groundwater contamination
due to rehabilitation/replacement of water supply and sewer network;
*  reduction in non point source air and noise pollution via limiting /restricting
traffic within the Block;
*  improvement in environmental health conditions through removal of
contaminated soil;
*  introduction of improved landscape management practices;
*  improvement of air quality and aesthetic appearance via tree replanting.
In addition to positive environmental impacts, the above measures will
contribute to cost recovery of the pilot project.
Negative Impacts and Their Mitigation
6.    Some inadvertent, if largely temporary, negative environmental impacts are
expected to take place in course of the pilot project implementation. These include soil
and vegetation disturbance, temporary incremental noise and air pollution, temporary
traffic increase, and related disturbances to established pedestrian movement patterns.
Incremental solid waste will be generated as old pipe, cable, plant etc. will be removed.
In elation to the above, accepted mitigation measures will need to be introduced. These
include:
* appropriate construction equipment/ traffic management and safety practices,
minimizing disturbances and safety risks;
* adequate system of waste disposal and scrap metal utilization;
e appropriate removal and storage of contaminated topsoil; and
* revegetation;
Overall, environmental benefits arising from the pilot project implementation will, are
expected to greatly outweigh the negative impacts.






ANNEx 15
LIST OF DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILES
Project Reports
Report on the Visit to St. Petersburg of the First Working Group from the World Bank
(Sept. 17-28, 1995. Olga Kaganova (the Urban Institute). January 1996.
St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project Aide-Memoire. World Bank
Identification Mission. October 24, 1995.
St. Petersburg Center City Upgrading Project: Main Issues. Alain Bertaud. 1995.
Recommendations for the St. Petersburg Phase 1 Center City Rehabilitation Project.
Stephen Butler. 1995.
Social Assessment of St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Proiect. Ayse Kudat.
October 1995.
St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project Aide-Memoire. World Bank
Preparation Mission. January 4, 1996.
St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project: Technical Annex (white cover).
March 16. 1996.
St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project: Minutes of Pre-Appraisal Review
Meeting. April 16, 1996.
St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project: Final Executive Project Summary.
April 22, 1996.
Mission Report: Mission to St. Petersburg. 15-21 May 1996. Michael Lincourt
(UNESCO, World Heritage Center). June 1996.
St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project Aide-Memoire. World Bank Appraisal
Mission. July 1, 1996.
St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project Aide Memoire. World Bank Appraisal
Mission. August 8, 1996.



162
Additional Project Information
Detailed Cost/Financing Table. February 20, 1997.
Detailed Procurement Schedule. February 20, 1997.
Real Estate Markets
St. Petersburg Markets. M-Noelle Brisson. 1996.
Real Estate Market in the Central City. Olga Kaganova. September 1995.
Privatization and Restructuring of the Hotel Sector: City of St. Petersburg. European
Commission (TACIS). 1994.
St. Petersburg Office Market Report (May 1996. The Western Group Incorporated, a
member of Colliers International.
Municipal Finance
St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project: Initial Financial Analysis. (23 p.)
St. Petersburg City Budget. European Commission (TACIS). August 1995.
The City of St. Petersburz Financial Report. St. Petersburg Mayor's Office Committee
for Economy and Finance and the Leontiev Center. 1995.
City of St. Petersburg: Restated Statements of Revenues and Expenditures and 1996
Budget. Ernst & Young (CIS) Limited. April 26, 1996.
The Plan of Actions which Aims at Drawing the Additional Income to the Budget of St.
Petersburg.
Historic Preservation
Saint Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project: Historic Preservation. Steve Butler.
1995.
Preservation of Monuments under the Conditions of Historical Areas Privatization' s.
Marina Istomina. December, 1995.
Stakeholders
Stakeholder Seminar: Issues and Recommendations



163
Strategic Plan
Strategic Plan for St. Petersburg: Proposals for the Meeting of the Coordinating Council.
Commission for Economic Reform and City Development Strategy. May 1996.
A Socio-Economic Development Strategy for St. Petersburg. (Draft, not for publication).
Commission for Economic Reform and Development Strategy. 1995.
St. Petersburg Development Project: Development Strategy. RAN Consultants Limited.
1992.
St. Petersburg Development Project: Russian Law and Landed Property. RAN
Consultants Limited. 1992.
St. Petersburg Development Project: Building Portfolio. RAN Consultants Limited.
1992.
St. Petersburg Development Project: Architectural Appendix. RAN Consultants
Limited. 1992.
Environment
St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Proiect: Environmental Analysis (draft!.
Vladimir Litvak. September 1996.
Pilot Projects
Financial and Economic Analysis of the Pilot Projects.
Infrastructure
St. Petersburg Center City Engineering Infrastructure. Pentti Aro. September 1995.
St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Engineering Project: Analysis of the Pilot
Projects. Padco. April 1996.
Block 130
Block 130 Central District St. Petersburg. State Institute for Architecture in St.
Petersburg. 1996.
Economic Factors Affecting Land Uses on Block 130 of Central St. Petersburg. Douglas
B. Diamond. June 24, 1996.
St. Petersburg City Center Zoning Project (Block 130). The Bancroft Group. June 1996.



164
Kapella Courtyards
Center City Reconstruction Proiect: Analysis of Pedestrian Traffic and Major
Characteristics of the "Choral Society Micro-district." Business Link. July 1996.
Saint Petersburg: Capella Courtyards. December 1996.
Otchet po bloku sotsial'nogo soprovozhdeniia proekta razvitiia territorii v raione kapelly.
Konfliktologichesskii forum (Kornev). 1996.
Regulatory Reform
St. Petersburg: Progress on Housing Loan Regulatory Action Program as of June 1,
1996. Steve Butler. June 15, 1996.
Recent Laws and Decrees
On approval of a project of a federal targeted program "Development and Preservation of
the Historic Center of St. Petersburg." March 23, 1996.
Decree "On Additional Measures on Development of Mortgage Lending." (date?).
Agreement "On separation of power in the field of historic heritage preservation between
the Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation and the Administration of St.
Petersburg." July 17, 1996.
Decrees of the St. Petersburg City Government:
*  On organization of preparation of the St. Petersburg Center Rehabilitation
Project (December 13, 1995).
*  On establishment of a Bank Credits Implementation Agency (June 30, 1995).
Miscellaneous
Committees. Commissions and Agencies Activities to Obtain, Store and Disseminate
Information on Historical building Stock. Marina Istomina. December 1995.
Organization for Implementation of the St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Proiect.
August 1996.
Work by the Leontiev Center.
Federal Target Program of St. Petersburg Historical Center Development and
Preservation: Brief Review. Marina Istomina. January 31, 1996.



St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project                                      ANNEX  16A
Master Time Schedule
96            l1997                                    1998            l1999                         _
ID   Task Name                                      Qtr 3   Qtr 4 |Qtr1  Qtr 2 | Qtr 3 | Qtr4   Qtr 1Qtr2   Qtr 3   Qtr 4   Otr I |OQtr 2   Qtr 3 I Qtr 4
I   Technical Cooperation
2       Adminstration, Planning and Engineering
3           General Consultant
4           PIU                                                   ,.
5           Leontieff Center
6           Infrastructure Feasibility Studies
7           Strategic Plan
8           Design and Eng.-General Consultant
9       Inst. Building and Regulatory Reform
10          Assistance (Equip.) for City Agencies                  i
11          Fund for Devip. of Real Estate Sector
12
13   Pilot Schemes
14       Block 130
15          Heating Plant
16              Works for Boilers and Network
7               New Modular Boiler Units
18              New heating network, pipe supply
19
20          Pedestrian Mall (Works)
21          Soil Scrapping
22
23          Elderly Housing
24



St. Petersburg Center City Rehabilitation Project                                      ANNEX  16A
Master Time Schedule
_6            [           1997                         1998            [           1999
ID   Task Name                                      Qtr3   Qtr4 |Qtr 1| Qtr2   Qtr3   Qtr4   Qtr I  Qtr2   Qtr3   Qtr4   Qtr 1  Qtr2   Qtr3   Qtr4
25       Nevsky Prospekt Upgrading
26          Street Lighting                                                                                                                        _
27              1 18 lamp posts St. Petersburg
28              Electrical equipment                                                          _
29              Related works
30
31          Signs, Cylinders, Maps                                                            _     _-_ _
32          Ramps, Handrails, Sidewalks
33          Traffic Lights                                                                                                       _
34
35       Small Projects Fund
36
37       Kapella                                                   - 
38          Small Works
39          Boiler House
40          Paving, landscaping, lighting                                                     _
41          Heating Plant
42          Small goods - lights                                   x_I-
43          Resettlement of tenants
44
46   Special Housing Fund
46   Special Culural Fund                                       i_                                     _ __ _ _
_   _                                                                     _     _    _    _         _    _     _    _     _   _     _    _    _     _



Annex 16B
INDICATIVE SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate  Activities                             Staff Composition           Staff
Dates                                                                           Weeks
05/97     Project Launch workshop                Task Manager                12*
Review evaluation of General Consultant  Procurement/Disbursement
Specialists
Regulatory Specialist
09/97     Review of work progress                Task Manager                7
Engineering/Procurement
Sector Specialist
01/98     Review Progress in project and strategic   Task Manager            10
plan results                          City planner
Sociologist
Engineer
06/98     Mid-term review (and identification of    Task Manager             8
possible future projects)             Sociologist
Component Specialists
01/99     Review progress & future project       Task Manager               5*
preparation                           Component Specialists
04/99     Review progress & future project       Task Manager                3*
l ____________    preparation
10/99     Preliminary final inspection & audits  Task Manager                10
Procurement Specialist
Finance Specialist
03/00     Final inspection                       Task Manager                8
Final audits                          Finance Specialist
Includes part of the cost of preparing future projects.






IBRD 28309
rhi, ..p    p-d-ed by t6
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Map Dsign Uif .1 Th. W-W B.A.
Y.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
UL KOMSOtAOLP'
040                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              and any.th- id.-ti-
ST.  PETERSBURG                                                                  thi, .p d. n-p iply, - d. Part f
Th. W.,Id B..k G,-p, any jdg-t
/O                                                                                                                                                            CENTER CITY REHABILITATION PROJECT
0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        s.,hny  d.-  t .. ... pf.-   f
NeYO                                                                                                                                          -= d-i...
Palace                                             PROJECT COMPONENTS:
,Summe,-'                                                                                                      (D         BLOCK 130 OF NEVSKY PROSPEKT                                                                       Barents
------                                                                                              NEVSKY PROSPEKT UPGRADING                                                                            Sea
D=lbP*l                                                    CAPELLA COURTYARD UPGRADING                                                 'I
Small Ne,a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -d
UL. SALTYKOVA-SHCHEDRINA                                                      DUMSKAYA ULITSA SITE                                                  SWEDEN
Ro.tal
Columns
Stoa 6ch-ge
Building     Nay Muse.n,                                                                                                                                                            POINTS OF INTEREST
FINLAND
RaWAM   OPEN SPACES PARKS
IUL, ekkl,.                                                --6-    METRO / METRO STATIONS
Pol..                              chumb  f the       2,                                                      . .......
Re*untection,-,                                                                                                       RAILROADS  RAILROAD STATIONS
t   t
c,(e                                                                                                            F,.                                                                                                                                                                          k
0                    05                      MILE                                                FEDERAT,
Kazon
0                                                       KiLomETERS
St Isaac's
sco
B Ru'S
7
-"acion
HISTORIC CITY CENTER
MAIN ROADS
OPEN SPACES  PARKS
se
URBAN AREAS
0
Cp
Z!,
and
'00v
Z
to
Nevskaya
A
Guba
t
A(.                                                                                                     %
NOVEMBER I









IMAGING
Report No.: /1      6998   RU
Type:-AN j42d



