Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3521 
Operation Name 
Third Programmatic Business Productivity and Efficiency 
Development Policy Loan 
Region 
Latin  America and the Caribbean 
Sector 
General finance sector (30%); General industry and trade sector 
(35%); General infrastructure (30%) 
Project ID 
P105029 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Colombia 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, National Planning 
Department 
Date PID Prepared 
November 27, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 13, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 27, 2008 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The near stagnation of the economy during the early 2000s has given way to sustained economic 
growth and a strengthening of consumer and investor confidence.  The turnaround is partly due 
to a much improved global economic environment in which demand has soared, the prices of 
Colombia’s primary exports have risen, and the cost of international borrowing has fallen.  
Domestic factors, particularly the improved security situation and the Government’s stable 
macroeconomic policy, have played a major part in the country’s recovery.  Real economic 
growth accelerated from 1.9 percent in 2002 to 6.8 percent in 2006, with private investment 
rising from 7.7 percent of GDP in 2002 to over 16 percent in 2006.  Strong economic growth 
continued into 2007 with GDP growth of nearly 7.5 percent in the first half of the year.  
Unemployment fell from over 17 percent in 2002 to below 11 percent currently, while inflation 
declined from 7 percent in 2002 to below 4.5 percent in 2006. 
 
The Government of Colombia (GoC) recognizes that the private sector is the engine of the 
country’s economic growth, and has put measures to foster a stronger private sector supply 
response high on its agenda for increasing growth.  The brighter macro-level picture is central to 
this, through revived aggregate demand and greater consumer and business confidence. The 
government is also undertaking an extensive program of micro-level reforms to facilitate 
business operations and increase the productivity and competitiveness of Colombian firms in 
order to generate sustainable job growth.   
The Bank is supporting the GoC’s business productivity and efficiency reform process through a 
programmatic development policy operation in three phases, which would be executed over a 
period of three years.  The first two operations (approved by the Board, respectively, in October 
2005 and November 2006) supported policy and institutional reforms in three areas: 
 
·
Enhancement of the business environment to improve the competitiveness 
of the productive sectors of the economy; 
Page  2
·
Increasing the soundness and depth of the financial system and access to 
capital markets by enterprises and improving the efficiency of secondary 
markets; and 
·
Improve quality standards and foster technological innovation to facilitate 
access of Colombian goods and services to international markets. 
 
2. Preliminary 
description 
 
The third loan of this program will support policy reforms in three areas: 
(a) 
Strengthening the financial sector by implementing a financial sector 
reform road map seeking to liberalize the services that can be provided by financial 
institutions and increasing access to the poor by fostering the development of 
financial services targeted and poor and rural areas; 
(b) 
Enhancing quality standards and technological innovation by (i) 
implementing a clear policy for overhauling, updating and strengthening support for 
science technology and innovation; (ii) improving the quality and conformity 
assessment framework to enhance competitiveness in international markets; and (iii) 
developing a new technology strategy that facilitates the adoption of new 
technologies by firms; and 
(c) 
Strengthening infrastructure and logistics for competitiveness by 
supporting (i) a new regulatory framework to promote energy markets; (ii) improved 
ports management; (iii) a new policy to facilitate import/export logistics; and (iv) an 
upgraded trucking sector regulation. 
3. Environmental Aspects 
 
The reforms supported by the proposed loan are not expected to have any significant effect on 
the environment. 
 
4. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
300 
 Total 
300 
 
5. Contact point: 
 
Juan Carlos Mendoza, Task Manager 
Title: Senior Financial Economist 
Tel: (+1 202) 473-1735 
Email: 
jmendoza@worldbank.org
Location: Washington, DC (IBRD) 
 
