Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3732 
Operation Name 
Third Programmatic Business Product and Efficiency 
Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (45%);General finance sector 
(25%);General energy sector (10%);General transportation sector 
(10%);Central government administration (10%) 
Project ID 
P105029 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT/NATIONAL 
PLANNING DEP. 
Date PID Prepared 
March 11, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 3, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
April 8, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The near stagnation of the economy during the early 2000s has given way to sustained economic 
growth and a strengthening of consumer and investor confidence.  The turnaround is partly due 
to a much improved global economic environment in which demand has soared, the prices of 
Colombia’s primary exports have risen, and the cost of international borrowing has fallen.  
Domestic factors, particularly the improved security situation and the Government’s stable 
macroeconomic policy, have played a major part in the country’s recovery.  Real economic 
growth accelerated from 1.9 percent in 2002 to 6.8 percent in 2006, with private investment 
rising from 7.7 percent of GDP in 2002 to over 16 percent in 2006.  Strong economic growth 
continued into 2007 with GDP growth of nearly 7.5 percent in the first half of the year.  
Unemployment fell from over 17 percent in 2002 to below 11 percent currently, while inflation 
declined from 7 percent in 2002 to below 4.5 percent in 2006. 
 
The Government of Colombia (GoC) recognizes that the private sector is the engine of the 
country’s economic growth, and has put measures to foster a stronger private sector supply 
response high on its agenda for increasing growth.  The brighter macro-level picture is central to 
this, through revived aggregate demand and greater consumer and business confidence. The 
government is also undertaking an extensive program of micro-level reforms to facilitate 
business operations and increase the productivity and competitiveness of Colombian firms in 
order to generate sustainable job growth.   
The Bank is supporting the GoC’s business productivity and efficiency reform process through a 
programmatic development policy operation in three phases, which would be executed over a 
period of three years.  The first two operations (approved by the Board, respectively, in October 
2005 and November 2006) supported policy and institutional reforms in three areas: 
 
Page  2
·
Enhancement of the business environment to improve the competitiveness 
of the productive sectors of the economy; 
·
Increasing the soundness and depth of the financial system and access to 
capital markets by enterprises and improving the efficiency of secondary 
markets; and 
·
Improve quality standards and foster technological innovation to facilitate 
access of Colombian goods and services to international markets. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The development objectives of this operation are to support sustainable growth and the 
alleviation of poverty by: 
 
(a) 
Facilitating the operation of businesses and promoting investment, to boost 
productivity and employment levels; and 
(b) 
Consolidating the financial sector and capital markets as pillars of economic growth 
to address the needs of individuals and the productive sector. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Improving the country’s economic competitiveness has been a central theme of the Government 
of Colombia (GoC) overall policy program and thus has also been a key pillar of the Bank 
support strategy.  On this basis, the Government requested the preparation of a Programmatic 
Development Policy Loan (DPL) series to support implementation of its competitiveness-
enhancing policies, particularly with regard to five key areas considered bottlenecks.   
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
550 
 Total 
550 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
This loan will be implemented jointly by the 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
 (Ministry 
of Finance and Public Credit - MHCP) and the 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
 (National 
Planning Department - DNP). 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
The reforms supported by this loan seek to solve bottlen
ecks to Colombia’s overall 
competitiveness thus allowing sustainable growth to continue. 
Page  3
The proposed operation supports an institutional effort widely perceived as necessary by most 
political actors, and that the Government is already actively implementing as reflected by the fact 
that all reforms supported by the previous loans of this series remain in place. The main risk to 
the program would be an overall slow down of the economy derived from changing conditions 
with respect to Colombia’s main trading partners. Other moderate risks directly related to the 
reforms supported by the program include: 
·
Given the multi-sector nature of policies associated with competitiveness, mechanisms for 
inter-institutional collaboration in support of competitiveness related reforms may be 
hampered by lack of coordination among agencies.  
·
Finally, a remaining risk relates to when the impact of reforms may be felt – the anticipated 
positive changes may occur beyond the timeframe of this programmatic series. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed operation supports policies that seek to reduce poverty, through fostering 
sustainable economic growth.  It has been widely recognized that, in order to reap the benefits of 
trade integration and further stimulate economic growth, it is essential to work on a 
complementary agenda of competitiveness, encompassing, among others, infrastructure, business 
regulation and efficient factor markets.  A favorable business environment and a stronger, more 
efficient, and more diversified financial system and capital market could provide the opportunity 
to private enterprises (the engine of economic expansion) to access a larger amount of resources.  
The proposed operation advances the Colombia Country Partnership Strategy’s aim of promoting 
fast and sustainable growth through stimulating private sector activity and investment. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Juan Carlos Mendoza, Task Manager 
Title: Senior Financial Economist 
Tel: (+1 202) 473-1735 
Email: 
jmendoza@worldbank.org
Location: Washington, DC (IBRD)  
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
