Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7534-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Programmatic Business Productivity and Efficiency  
Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 26, 2008
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7534-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 26, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
COLOMBIA (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of
 
US$550,000,000 (five hundred fifty 
million Dollars, as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. In the event that the Borrower elects not to 
capitalize the Front-end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later 
than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
Page  3
2
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Page  4
3
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
 
principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Bank and the Borrower may at any time agree on repayment 
provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
for the then Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, provided that: (i) the average 
maturity of each Withdrawal of an amount of such Unwithdrawn Loan 
Balance does not exceed 18 years from the Maturity Fixing Date and the 
final maturity of such Withdrawal does not exceed 30 years from the 
Maturity Fixing Date (or such other average maturity and/or final 
maturity as may be generally applicable to loans made by the Bank to the 
Borrower at the time of such agreement); and (ii) such repayment 
provisions have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank prior to 
the Withdrawal Date of any such Withdrawal 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of 
the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the  Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to 
a
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
Page  5
4
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.10 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall: 
(i) regularly monitor the Borrower’s 
macroeconomic policy framework and the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program; and (ii) from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on these matters;  
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that has arisen that has or would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE IV
 —
EFFECTIVENESS
 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on October 8, 2009. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Carrera 7-A. No. 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, República de Colombia 
 
Facsimile: (57-1) 350-9344 
 
Page  6
5
5.03. The 
Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By /s/ Mariana Pacheco 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Keith Hansen 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
A. 
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program to strengthen its fiscal 
 
management, financial system and capital markets include the following:
 
1. The 
enactment, 
by
the Borrower’s legislative branch, of legislative act 
(
Acto Legislativo
)
No. 4 of 2007 published in the Borrower’s 
Diario 
Oficial
 No. 46,686 (July 11, 2007), which has the objective of limiting 
and stabilizing the growth rate of fiscal transfers to sub-national 
governments by amending selected articles of the Borrower’s 
Constitution. 
 
2. The 
issuance, 
by 
MHCP,
 
of Decree No. 519 of 2007 dated February 26, 
2007, which liberalizes the interest rate regime of capital markets by 
establishing risk-adjusted predatory lending interest rate caps.
 
3. 
The enactment, by the Borrower’s legislative branch, of fiscal reform law 
No. 1111 dated December 27, 2006,
 
which exempts the basic savings 
accounts for the poor from any financial transaction tax.
 
4. 
The issuance, by the Borrower’s Superintendence of Finance,
 
of
circular 
(
Carta Circular
)
No. 37 dated August 9, 2006, which establishes know-
your-customer regulations with a view to removing undue barriers for 
access to financial services (particularly savings accounts for lower 
income individuals) and differentiating between mandatory and optional 
requirements. 
 
5. 
The enactment, by the Borrower’s legislative branch, of the 2007 budget 
law No. 1110 dated December 27, 2006, which allocates
 
budgetary 
resources to subsidize, on a declining basis, the opening of banking 
branches in underserved areas of the Borrower’s territory.
 
B. 
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program to improve industry quality 
 
standards and foster technological innovation include the following: 
 
1. 
The enactment, by the Borrower’s legislative branch,
 
of
law No. 1151 
dated July 24, 2007, which establishes
 
a
National Development Plan Law 
setting forth, 
inter alia
,
the institutional framework that will enable the 
improvement of industry quality standards. 
 
Page  8
7
2. The 
enactment, 
by
the Borrower’s legislative branch, of law No. 1151 
dated July 24, 2007, which, in relevant sections thereof, establishes the 
Borrower’s National Development Plan, setting forth therein a new 
innovation and technology policy framework.
 
3. 
The enactment, by the Borrower’s legislative branch, of section No. 0320 
respectively in: (a) the 2006 Budget Law No. 998 dated November 29, 
2005; (b) the 2007 Budget Law No. 1110 dated December 27, 2006; and 
(c) the 2008 Budget Law No. 1169 dated December 5, 2007, all 
evidencing the increase in the 2007 and 2008 budgetary allocations for 
science and technology to support the implementation of the Borrower’s 
National Development Plan.
 
C. 
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program to strengthen private sector 
 
participation in infrastructure and logistics include the following: 
 
1. 
The adoption, by the Borrower’s Energy and Gas Regulation Committee 
(CREG), of the resolution No. 071 dated October 3, 2006; the resolution 
No. 086 dated November 1, 2006; the resolution No. 112 dated 
December 19, 2006; the resolution No. 031 dated April 20, 2007; the 
resolution No. 094 dated November 09, 2007, which together establish 
the necessary steps to implement the auction of energy supply by the end 
of 2007. 
 
2. 
The conclusion by the Borrower’s  ministry of transport, pursuant to 
CONPES document No. 3342 dated March 14, 2005 issued by DNP, of 
several memoranda of understanding with, respectively: (a)  the
 Sociedad 
Portuaria Regional de Santa Marta SA
 (dated July 8, 2007); (b) the 
Sociedad Portuaria Regional de Barranquilla SA
 (dated July 26, 2007); 
and (c) the 
Sociedad Portuaria Regional de Buenaventura SA
 (dated 
August 2, 2007), to carry out actions leading to the definition of  the new 
scheme for ports operation, with the objective of securing their required 
expansion and improving logistic services.  
 
3. 
The issuance, by DNP, of CONPES document No. 3469 (April 30, 
2007), which facilitates import/export logistics (
inspección simultánea
).
 
4. 
The issuance, by DNP, of CONPES document No. 3489 for the trucking 
industry dated October 1, 2007, which facilitates a more efficient 
national logistics system.
 
Page  9
8
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The Loan shall be withdrawn in various 
drawdowns of a single tranche.  The categories of items that may be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), and the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category are set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Tranche 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars
)
Single Tranche 
 
550,000,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
550,000,000 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  No withdrawal shall be made from
 the Loan 
 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.  
 
D. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds.  
If at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank 
of a request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, in the course of its 
monitoring referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Bank determines 
that a review of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework or of its 
progress in carrying out the Program is warranted, the Bank shall give notice to 
the Borrower to that effect.  Upon the giving of such notice, no withdrawals shall 
be made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless and until the Bank has 
notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of views as described 
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of said Section 3.01, with: (1) the progress achieved by 
the Borrower in carrying out the Program; and (2) the appropriateness of the 
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
 
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
Page  10
9
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
Page  11
10
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each April 
15 and October 15, the first installment to be payable on the 20
t
h
Interest 
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and 
the last installment to be payable on the 52
n
d
Interest Payment Date following the 
Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.  
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
First through to and including 32
nd
 
3.03 % 
 
33
rd
 
3.04
%
2. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed 
Amount. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the 
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to 
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that 
is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
Page  12
11
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  
Definitions
1. 
“CONPES” means 
Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y Social
,
the 
Borrower’s National Council on Economic and Social Policy. 
 
2. “DNP” 
means 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación,
 the Borrower’s National 
Planning Department. 
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
Page  13
12
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
5. “MHCP” 
means 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Cr
édito Público
,
the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated March 07, 2008 from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
7. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
Page  14
13
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
Page  15
14
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Fixed Spread” means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for 
the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; provided, that: (a) for purposes of 
determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (d), that is 
applicable to an  amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which 
interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s 
fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar 
day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of 
denomination of such amount; (b) for purposes of fixing the Variable 
Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed 
spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. 
time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all 
or any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance pursuant to Section 
4.04 (a), the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the 
manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   
 
(e) 
The term “Variable Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Variable Spread” means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period: 
(1) the Bank’s standard variable spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. 
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) 
LIBOR, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by it to fund 
loans that carry interest at a rate based on the Variable Spread; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum. In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one Currency, 
“Variable Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.  
 
(f) 
A new term “Withdrawal” is added to read as follows: 
 
“Withdrawal” means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the 
Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01. 
Page  16
15
(g) 
A
new term “Withdrawal Date” is added to read as follows: 
 
“Withdrawal Date” means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the 
Bank pays the Withdrawal. 
 
