                                                                                                      94061
Business Productivity And Efficiency Programmatic                                                   April 16, 2012




 Enhancing Business Efficiency and Productivity in Colombia to Boost
 Growth and Reduce Poverty


Overview
With support from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD),
Colombia has implemented reforms to improve the business environment, develop the financial
sector, and foster innovation. During 2006-2011, Colombia has consistently appeared as one of
the top ten reformers in the Doing Business Report. Economic growth, measured as per capita
gross domestic product (GDP), grew at an average 3.1 percent compared to 2.0 percent in the
previous five years, and the population living below the domestic poverty line declined by
almost 8 percentage points.


Challenge
Colombia experienced economic stagnation during the late
                                                                 More Results
1990s and the early 2000s, and the financial crisis during
that period curtailed firms’ access to funding. The new

                                                                 50%
government that took over in 2002 laid down a National
Development Plan and asked for Bank support to implement
it. This plan aimed to support sustainable growth-generating
activities that would increase employment, among other           increased on the non-traditional
                                                                 exports
goals. To this end, it developed a competitiveness strategy
that addressed five key policy areas to stimulate business
productivity and efficiency. These included: (i) the overall

                                                                 126%
business environment, (ii) foreign trade and competitiveness,
(iii) the financial system and capital markets, (iv) quality
standards and technological innovation, and (v) infrastructure
                                                                 increased the Foreign Direct
and logistics.                                                   Investment


Approach
The World Bank’s efforts supported several reforms,
identified in a series of sector studies backed by IBRD. The
studies, produced during 2004 and the first half of 2005,
                                                                 11%
                                                                 percentage points of GDP
included (i) Recent Economic Developments in Infrastructure      increased on the total credit to
                                                                 the private sector
(REDI ), (ii) Quality and Logistics Infrastructure for
Competitiveness in Colombia. (iii) Financial Sector
Assessment Program Update, (iii) Labor Market Adjustment,
Reform and Productivity in Colombia: What are the Factors        LEARN MORE
that Matter? and (iv) Colombia Financial Sector Stocktaking .
                                                                  Colombia - First Programmatic
The government undertook key pro-business reforms                 Business Productivity and
including the creation of a one-stop-shop for trade               Efficiency Development Policy
processing, the enactment of the Legal Stability for Investors    Loan – Program Document
Law and the Securities Law, regulations for the
                                                                   Colombia - Second
establishment of private equity funds, as well as decrees to       Programmatic Business
simplify inspections and regulations in the area of logistics      Productivity and Efficiency
and transport. The operation also provided flexibility through     Development Policy Loan –
the use of innovative financial products such as a deferred        Program Document
draw-down option for disbursement.                                 Colombia - Third Programmatic
                                                                   Business Productivity and
                                                                   Efficiency Development Policy
Results                                                            Loan – Program Document
These reforms improved the business environment and
fostered capital market development, considered key to
sustaining growth and alleviating poverty, which benefited
the whole Colombian population.  Improvements in several
key outcome indicators from 2004-2010 reflect the progress
achieved by the program:

       Foreign Direct Investment increased by 126 percent.

       Non-traditional exports increased by over 50 percent.

       Total credit to the private sector increased 11 percentage points of GDP.

       Issuance of fixed income securities and equities doubled in number and 11 private
       equity funds were created.

       Population living below the domestic poverty line declined by almost 8 percentage
       points.



Bank Contribution
To support the Colombian reforms, IBRD provided US$1.1 billion during 2005-2008. It also
delivered several analytical pieces in 2004 and early 2005 ahead of the preparation of the
operation in the second half of 2005. Those included, among others, the 2005 Country
Economic Memorandum, a report on the Quality and Logistics Infrastructure for
Competitiveness in Colombia and a Financial Sector Stocktaking.


Partners
As part of a closely-coordinated effort within the donor community, the Inter-American
Development Bank supported institutional capacity building to implement competitiveness
policies in a programmatic policy-based lending series. IBRD also coordinated its actions with
the Corporación Andina de Fomento (CAF) and the U.S. Agency for International Development
(USAID). CAF supported a number of initiatives to strengthen production chains and clusters in
various economic sectors, while USAID backed the design and implementation of strategic
capacity building.


Moving Forward
IBRD continued providing support to Colombia through a Financial Sector Development Policy
Loan. This loan supported the issuance of the last block of regulations to implement the
Securities Market Law.  As the global financial crisis deepened in October 2008, the Financial
Sector Loan also backed several measures to strengthen the sector’s resilience .The Bank
approved the loan of US$300 million on July 8, 2009.


Beneficiaries
The reforms supported by this operation improved the business environment, and fostered
capital market development, considered key to sustaining growth and alleviating poverty, which
benefited the whole Colombian population.
