Document of
The World BankTe o
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3457-IN
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON. A
PROPOSE]) LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$222.3 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SOUTH BASSEIN GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 2, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 1983)
US$1            =  Rs 9.942250
Rs 1            =  US$0.100580
Rs 1 million   =  US$100,580
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 = Rs 9.0, which represents the average exchange
rate projected over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms used in- this Report
BOP      -      Bombay Offshore Project
GOI      -      Government of India
km       -      kilometer
LPG      -      Liquified Petroleum Gas
Mmcmd    -      Millions of cubic meters per day
NGL      -      Natural Gas Liquids (or condensate)
OIL      -      Oil India (Limited)
ONGC     -      Oil and Natural Gas Commission
OPEC     -      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
toe      -      Tons of oil equivalent



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SOUTH BASSEIN GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMARY
Borrower:                        India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:                     Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC).
Amount:                          US$222.3 mill:on, including capitalized
front-end fee of 1.5%.
Terms:                           Repayment over 20 years, including five years'
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
On-Lending Terms:                Government of India (GOI) to ONGC (US$222.3
million):  Funds will be onlent to ONGC at a
rate of at least 12% per annum; repayment over
a maximum of 15 years, including five years'
grace. GOI would bear the foreign exchange
and interest rate risks.
Project Description:             The project comprises Phase I of the South
Bassein development program to produce gas
from the Sout'h Bassein field located in the
Arabian Sea, S5 km west of Bombay. This
first phase will bring the production
capacity of the field to 5 million cubic
meters of gas per day. The development
involves the supply and installation of an
offshore process platform complex, the
laying of subsea pipelines to connect this
platform complex to the main Bombay High
gas and crude oil pipelines already in
service and the laying of a new 235 km gas
pipeline from the South Bassein site to the
shore facilities located at Hazira in the
State of Gujarat. Associated shore
facilities at Hazira and telecommunications
equipment are included in the project. The
principal risk involved is one normally
associated with offshore hydrocarbon
fields, viz., the reservoir may not live up
to expectations. An extensive test
drilling program gives every confidence
that the reservoir risk is minimal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Costs:
US$ Millions
Item                                     Local           Foreign            Total
Process Complex                                            138.9            138.9
Tie-in to existing crude
and gas trunklines                       -                30.2             30.2
Wells (6)                                 7.6                7.5             15.1
South Bassein - Hazira
pipeline                               36.2             293.2             329.4
Hazira Terminal Facilities               10.2                2.7             12.9
Telecomrmunications and
Telecontrol                             2.2                1.0              3.2
Land                                      4.0               -                 4.0
Engineering & Supervision                23.0               10.1             33.1
Reservoir Consultancy                      -              -14.1             -14.1
Subtotal                              83.2 1/          497.7             580.9
Physical. Contingencies                   8.3               49.8             58.1
Price Contingencies                       7.3              51.9              59.2
Subtotal                              15.6             101.7             117.3
Total, Project Cost                   98.8             599.4             698.2
Front:-end fee on IBRD Loan           --                 3.3               3.3
Total. Financing Required             98.8             602.7             701.5
Financing Plan:
IBRD-                                                     222.3 2/          222.3 2/
Kuwait Fund                                                50.0              50.0
Commercial Borrowings/Export
Credits/Suppliers' Credits               -              250.0             250.0
ONGC's Ilnternal Resources               98.8              80.4             179.2
Total.                                98.8             602.7             701.5
1/ Including duties and taxes of US$31.2 million.
2/ Including front end fee of US$3.3 million.



-iii-
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY              FY83               FY84             FY85
Annual                3.3              170.0             49.0
Cumulative            3.3              173.3            222.3
Rate of Return:           About 38%.
Appraisal Report:         No. 4097-INa, dated January 26, 1983.



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT
EQUIVALENT TO US$222.3 MILLION TO INDIA FOR THE
SOUTH BASSEIN GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed loan
to India in an amount equivalent to US$222.3 million to help finance the for-
eign exchange costs of the Phase I Development of the South Bassein offshore
gas field, near Bombay, to bring its production capacity to five million cubic
meters per day of gas. Amortization would be over 20 years, including five
years of grace at the applicable interest rate. The proceeds of the loan would
be on-lent to the Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) at an interest rate of
at least 12% per annum, for a maximum of 15 years, including five years of
grace. The foreign exchange and interest rate risks would be borne by the
Government of India (GOI).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3872-IN, dated April 7, 1982), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 19, 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.       India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$240. Economic growth
has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.6% per annum over the past
30 years. The economy is dominated by agriculture which employs more than
two-thirds of the labor force. However, the land base is not sufficient to
provide an adequate livelihood to everyone engaged in agricultural activities,
especially those with little or no land. Consequently the latter have only an
insecure grasp on the means of existence. Growth of value-added in agricul-
ture -- 2.3% per annum over the past 30 years -- has been slower than growth of
industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a. result, there has been a gradual
decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at. factor cost measured in 1970/71
prices) from 60% to about 40%, while the sharE of industry rose from 15% to
around 24%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid. economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress on several fronts.  In the
face of a large and rapidly growing population, India has been able to increase
agricultural output faster than total population while eliminating persistent
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Report for the Haryana Irrigation II Project
(No. P-3443-IN), dated January 3, 1983.



-2-
dependence on foodgrain imports. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: gross domestic savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 24.8%, while gross domestic investment rose from 12.5%
of GDP to 26.2%. Foreign savings (balance of payments deficit on current
account) have never financed a major portion of domestic investment: a peak of
about 20% was reached during the early 1960s; for a few years in the late
1970s, surpluses arose, and at the present time, foreign savings are about 10%
of investment. External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP
and in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of
GDP, and was less than 1% at the end of the 1970s.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only 3.5% per annum, only marginally
higher than the volume growth of imports over the same period. In the early to
mid-1970s, however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant
during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced
various policy measures designed to stimulate exports.  As a result, the volume
of India's exports grew on average about 7.6% per annum for the 1970s as a
whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is pos-
sible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East,
contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more
effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by relatively rapid export growth and an expanding level of foodgrain output,
which culminated in a record 132 million tons of foodgrain production in
1978/79. As a result, growth in real GDP, agricultural and industrial
value-added, substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 3). In 1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst
drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices
and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a
decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade deficit. Severe inflation-
ary pressures also emerged after several years of virtual price stability. The
impact of these setbacks is still being felt in the Indian economy, par-
ticularly in the balance of payments, and adjustments will be needed for some
years to come. However, the short-term recovery process is almost completed
and the economy has regained its growth momentum.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81, the economy substantially recovered with real GDP growing
by 7.5%. While industrial output expanded by 4%, recovery was particularly
robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than
15%. Increased foodgrain production, along with judicious use of Government
buffer stocks built up in earlier years, also helped moderate price rises.
Inflation remained a serious problem with the annual average wholesale price
index rising 18%, although the second half of the year provided clear evidence
of a deceleration in inflation.
8.      1981/82 was a year of solid growth after the rebound in 1980/81 and
GDP grew by 5.5%. While foodgrain production rose only modestly over its



-3-
1980/81 level, other crops including oilseeds and sugarcane performed well and
tot:al agricultural output grew by 4%. The ava:ilability of power, coal and rail
transport, already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording
growth rates of about 10%, 9.4% and 15% respectively. As constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities continued to ease, industrial
output responded with an 8% increase. The downward trend in inflation con-
tinued.  Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on an average annual basis, while
the increase on a March 1981 to March 1982 basis was less than 2%, showing a
continued deceleration. Easier supply conditions, combined with a more
restrictive monetary policy, contributed to the sharp decline in the rate of
inflation.
9.      The performance of the agriculture sector in 1981/82 ensured that
supply conditions in the country remained quite favorable. It also provided
continuing evidence of the positive effects of large investments and
appropriate policies in past years. Foodgrain production reached between 132
and 134 million tons, thus matching or perhaps surpassing the previous record.
Irrigated area expanded by 2.5 million hectares, while fertilizer consumption
improved over its 1980/81 level by more than 7%, despite substantial price
increases. Recent performance and probable future trends suggest that on
average foodgrain supplies will exceed demand. However, the balance remains
delicate with some imports likely to be required from time to time. Indeed,
the effects of the severe 1979/80 drought were still being felt in 1981/82 when
2.25 million tons of wheat were imported to rebuild depleted stocks. Neverthe-
less, the relatively low import requirement, the ability of the Government to
delay imports for as long as two years after the production shortfall, and the
decline in foodgrain prices in real terms demonstrate the flexibility and
resilience provided by the public foodgrain system.
10.     Shortages of basic commodities and infrastructural services were major
contributors to industrial stagnation and the onset of high inflation in
1979/80. This was the culmination of several years of declining capacity
utilization in important, interrelated sectors such as power, coal, and rail
transport. A major cause of the improved economic climate over the last two
years has been a much improved level of output. in these sectors, due mainly to
greater efficiency and utilization of installed capacity. Expansion of coal
output by about 10 million tons for the second successive year and of rail
freight traffic to a record level were particularly noteworthy features of the
1981/82 economic performance. The shortfalls in domestic energy production
which contributed so heavily to the poor 1979/80 performance have also been
reduced. However, even though there remains large scope for improving
efficiency, further improvements in capacity utilization will become increas-
ingly difficult, and increases in capacity are needed to meet increasing
demand.
11.     Despite a brief phase in the late 1970s, when savings rates exceeded
investment rates and foreign exchange reserves actually increased, recent
experience shows that the needs of the Indian economy continue to outstrip the
availability of resources, both internal and external. Investment exceeds
domestic savings. The latter, at nearly 25% of GDP, are already high and
further increases, particularly from the household sector, will be increasingly
difficult to obtain. However, over the last t:wo years, the Government has



-4-
taken a number of measures to generate higher savings in the public sector.
Principal among these were price and tax increases, and subsidy reductions, on
a range of commodities produced mainly in the public sector.
12.     The shortage of resources is even more apparent in the foreign sector.
Problems became serious after 1979/80 when the cost of India's POL imports rose
sharply and the terms of trade deteriorated. Coupled with domestic supply
shortages and a slowing down in export growth, these factors caused India's
current iaccount deficit to rise from only 0.6% of GDP in 1979/80 to 2% of GDP
in 1980/81. In 1981/82, the current account deficit rose to US$4.3 billion,
represeniting 2.7% of GDP. Unfavorable movements in export prices and the terms
of trade threatened a worse outcome.  However, the much improved performance of
basic import-substituting industries and a resumption of healthy export volume
growth (8.3%) prevented this. To finance this gap in the face of inadequate
concessional aid flows, the Government drew down a record US$2.36 billion in
foreign exchange reserves, withdrew almost US$700 million under the recently
negotiated IMF Extended Fund Facility, and turned increasingly to other
non-concessional sources of finance. In 1980/81 and 1981/82 for example, new
government guaranteed commitments for commercial borrowing totalling over
US$1.3 billion were contracted for major projects.
13.     The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into reasonable balance at an acceptable level of growth. In
particular, there is a need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India can
produce efficiently, in order to reduce imports of these items, to moderate the
rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and slower demand
growth, and to further reduce the constraints in transportation and other
infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide range of
activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response to the
present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not reacted by
placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has maintained and
extended the more liberal policies evolved in the past several years. Recent
improvements in the availability of power, a major constraint facing exporters,
and the adoption of several new export and industrial policy measures have
improved the prospects for accelerating export growth.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods.  Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is exten-
sive compared to many countries, although there is considerable need for addi-
tional capacity as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity.
India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institutional
infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive natural
resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous
ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access



-5-
to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now about halfway
completed. The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the
growth of exports and domestic import: substitutes where appropriate, and the
removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been
encouraging, although the likelihood of contirnued bottlenecks in key sectors
such as power and transport is growing. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan
targets will require an acceleration of domest:ic savings rates. The efforts of
the Central Government to raise resources have so far been impressive and are
likely to be broadly sufficient to meet the f:Lnancing requirements of the
Central Government's share in plan investment, if inflation can be kept in
check. However, a significant shortfall in savings is likely to occur in some
states unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain and raise furtlher the already high level of
private savings. Recent increases in interest rates and tax concessions on
time deposits should stimulate such savings.  The further dampening of infla-
tiLonary expectations, the prospects for which look bright, will be an important
part of this effort.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth.  Thus far, however, output growth has not matched the
size of India's investment programs.  Much of this phenomenon relates to
India's stage of development, in which a large and growing proportion of
investment has been needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services,
such as power, transport: and irrigation, have inherently high capital output
ratios. However, at least some of the rise in the sectoral capital output
ratios has been due to a deterioration in efficiency and is avoidable through
better management. Bottlenecks in these basic sectors clearly can prejudice
growth in other sectors where large investments have been made. As demon-
strated in the last two years, performance in the basic service sectors can be
improved through better planning and management, thus leading to higher produc-
tivity and capacity utilization, throughout the economy. At the same time,
programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable
commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the grounds of
comparative advantage. For sectors such as power and transportation, expansion
of planned capacity in accordance with the requirements of the rest of the
economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term prospects. At present
rates of development, however, an adequate balance between supply and demand in
these sectors will be difficult to sustain. Performance in the power sector to
date suggests that India's power deficit will continue into the early 1990s,
although more rapid project implementation and efficiency could narrow the size
of the gap. For railways, real investment lEvels may be inadequate to meet
demand projections and will need to be monitored closely and adjusted upward
as necessary if serious bottlenecks are to be avoided in the next few years.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious energy production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.



-6-
In 1981, resources for exploration were raised by successive price increases
for petroleum products. On the production side, scheduled expansion is
expected to raise domestic production of crude from the current 46% to about
64% of demand by 1984/85. The rapidly expanding level of exploratory activity,
combined with the possibilities for accelerated offtake from known fields offer
much encouragement for India's longer term energy prospects.
18.     The continuation of India's balance of payments difficulties has been
marked by the progressive use of foreign exchange reserves and non-concessional
borrowing to finance the deficit. Use of reserves reached a record level in
1981/82, leaving less than four months of import coverage by the end of the
year. At the same time, India also made use of the IMF Extended Fund Facility.
Entering this period with a favorable debt service profile, India has so far
also been able to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over, of
course, relatively high underlying rates) and in the last two years commercial
borrowing has been stepped up. These sources will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessio-aal sources.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time maintaining reasonably high growth. In the
longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving these
needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further investment,
and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting industry to
realign the balance of payments. In the short-term, significant external
borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be
necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences of such a growth
strategy. However, an important element in providing India with the capacity
to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional assistance. Although
India is currently in a position to increase borrowing on commercial terms from
the very low levels of the past, there are limits to India's creditworthiness
in world markets. Maintaining an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the
structure of the Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment as
intended by the Government requires foreign resources in addition to the level
of commercial borrowing available to India. Indeed, along with increasing
exports, higher levels of investment to support an adequate rate of growth is a
key element in maintaining India's recently improved creditworthiness. India
is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous investment
requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The fact that
India has been able to maintain over the past seven years a rate of growth
above the long term trend, despite the severe setbacks of 1979/80, lends sub-
stance to the hope that a more open trade policy and concerted efforts to
remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate
mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can sustain a rate of growth
closer to 5.0% per annum than the long run trend of 3.6% per annum. Combined
with a reduction in the rate of population increase to below 2.0% per annum, a
5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of per
capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts would make
a significant difference to the prospects of easing poverty in India.



-7-
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
for India's development efforts to be protected and accelerated if possible.
The 1981 Census placed India's population at 683.4 million, or about 12 million
higher than official projections. The fact that there was no decline in
inter-census rates of population growth, equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is
a cause for concern. While further analysis may suggest this rate of growth to
be slightly overestimated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the
population growth rate has not materialized. Until full details of the Census
are released, firm judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not pos-
sible. However, the results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to
strengthen the family planning program in a broad range of activities and
services. These efforts are given high prior:Lty in the Sixth Plan which aims
at a rise in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group
from its estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, in
non-farm rural employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas.
These developments will have to stem in large part from market forces which,
however, must be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate Government policies
and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure. The declining
trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981 resulting from India's
sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such developments.
There is also a role for direct Government action in faster implementation of
land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in poverty through land
redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing the supply of credit
available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally in broadening the
provision of those services which enhance the human capital of the poor and
improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of the Minimum Needs
Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning for the past
decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of primary educa-
tion, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision of secure
village water supplies. Operations such as the community health volunteer
program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging evidence
that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERArIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 63 loans and 153 development
credits to India totalling US$4,095 million and US$10,956 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,280 million has been
repaid, and US$5,291 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1982.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through Septem-
ber 30, 1982 totalled US$287 million, representing an increase of about 76
percent over the same period last year. AnneK II contains a summary statement



-8-
of disbursements as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongo-
ing projects.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 28 commitments in India totalling US$219.6
million, of which US$26.4 million has been repaid, US$55.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$130.1 million, US$121.9 million
represents loans and US$8.2 million equity.  A summary statement of IFC opera-
tions as of September 30, 1982, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural produc-
tivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural inputs to
farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed projects.
Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at helping to
meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil imports,
and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth
in India, particularly through power generation and distribution, and railways
and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily
in the private sector, through its support of development finance institutions.
Recognizing the importance of improving the ability to satisfy the essential
needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group has supported nutrition
and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as well as water supply
and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
developmenlt will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers'
fields. ]:n addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.



-9-
26.       The need for a substantial net transier of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions w:Lthin the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, there
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even greater
deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by augmenting
domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past, Bank Group
assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Conse-
quently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development Frospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports was aboul: 11% in 1981/82 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of September 30, 1982, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$2,922 million, of which
US$1,308 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$1,614 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 54%, 42% and 52%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On December 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt
was about US$17.4 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$6.6 billion
or 38% (IDA's US$5.6 billion and IBRD's US$1.0 billion). In 1981/82, about
16.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
General
29.       Commercial primary energy (coal, oil, gas, hydro and nuclear
power) accounts for about 46% of total energy consumption in India, with
the balance (54%) being derived from non-commercial sources such as
firewood and agricultural and animal wastes. over the past ten years,
the growth of energy consumption in India averaged 4% per annum, which was
marginally below GDP growth for the period.  Over the same period,
commercial energy consumption increased by 5.3% per annum, but this was
not suifficiently rapid to raise per capita consumption of commercial
primary energy above 166 kg of oil equivalent, which is half the average
for low-income developing countries. The share of oil products in
commercial primary energy consumption at 33% is low for developing
countries, but it is growing rapidly. Firewood is the most widely
consumed fuel in India, accounting for about 65% of total non-commercial
energy consumption. Other sources of fuel, such as vegetable and animal
wastes, account for the remaining 35% of non-commercial energy
consumrption.
30.       Coal remains the most important domestic source of commercial
energy in India. Coal production, which stagnated between 1976/77 and
1979/80 because of power shortages, delays in commissioning new mines,
labor difficulties and transportation bottlenecks, has risen substantially
from about 104 million tons in 1979/80 to 124.7 million tons in 1981/82.
Installed electric generating capacity in 1981/82 is estimated at 35,000
MW, of which hydroelectric plants account for about 36%. Potential demand
for power has consistently exceeded supply in recent years. The estimated
deficit (calculated as actual supply compared to potential unrestricted
demand) was about 13% in 1980/81.
31.       Inadequate supplies of energy have been a major constraint
hindering India's economic growth. Although considerable indigenous
energy resources exist, their development has not kept pace with demand.
In November 1979, a high-level Working Group on Energy Policy recommended
measures to limit growth in energy demand. Prominent among the
recommendations were improvement in the efficiency of energy use,
reduction of transportation demand, reduction of the energy intensity of
industrial investment, and inter-fuel substitution from commercial to
non-comnmercial and renewable energy resources. These recommendations
address the need to contain commercial energy consumption without impeding
economic growth.
Petroleum
32.       Petroleum reservoirs are found in sedimentary basins.  In India,
there are i7 sedimentary basins with a total area of approximately 1.7
million km , of which about 1.4 million km (81%) are onshore and the
remainder offshore (to a water depth of 200 meters). Commercial petroleum
production has been established in only three sedimentary basins, viz.,



--1 1-
the Upper Assam Shelf in north-eastern India., the Cambay basin in Gujarat,
and the Bombay offshore basin which has several petroleum fields, namely,
Bombay High, North Bassein (Panna), South Bassein, Heera and Ratnagiri
(Ratna).  Many of India's potential petroleul-bearing areas are still
unexplored and production is concentrated in only a few regions.
Historically, the pace and scope of explorat:ion activity has been uneven
and resources have been concentrated on a fewq promising areas. Since the
discovery of the giant Bombay High field off the West Coast of India in
the mid-1970s, India has not made a new major commercial discovery.
Ongoing exploration efforts of ONGC, however, have been encouraging and
have identified several petroleum-bearing areas which need further
exploratory drilling to determine their commercial potential Indications
of petroleum have been found in seven other basins: Krishna-Godavari,
Cauvery, Rajasthan, Bengal, Andaman Islands, Himalayan Foothills-Ganga
Valley and the Assam-Arakan Fold Belt. Furthermore, four other basins are
considered prospective on general geological grounds, although
hydrocarbons have not yet been discovered. These basins are Saurashtra,
IKutch, Konkan-Kerala and Mahanadi. The Krishna-Godavari and Cauvery
basins indicate the most promising undeveloped potential to date, with
Krishna-Godavari standing out as the next likely major discovery after
Bombay High.
33.       Estimates of India's potential total recoverable hydrocarbon
reserves are 4.5 billion tons of oil equivalent (toe), of which about
two-thirds are located offshore and of which about 75% is expected to be
in the form of natural gas. Proven recoverable hydrocarbon reserves are
about 470 million tons of oil and 410 billicn cubic meters of natural gas
(about 330 million toe). Natural gas is becoming increasingly important
to the Indian economy with the development of the Bombay High oilfield
with its associated gas flows and planned development of the large
offshore South Bassein gas fields. Gas consumption in 1981/82 is
estimated at 1.6 million toe, and is forecast to rise to about 6.3 million
toe by 1989.
34.       Crude oil production from domestic: reserves has increased
steadily over the past 20 years from 0.45 million tons in 1960/61 to
almost 7 million tons in 1970/71 and an estimated 16.2 million tons in
1981/82. Consumption of crude oil grew at about 6.5% per annum over the
past five years, and reached an estimated 31j.8 million tons in 1981/82.
In that year imported crude oil accounted for 20.6 million tons or about
56% of consumption. The import bill for crude oil and petroleum products
was over US$6 billion that year, representing 38% of total merchandise
imports and 70% of India's merchandise export earnings. By the end of the
Sixth Plan period (1984/85), consumption is expected to reach about 46
million tons. This would exceed expected domestic production by about 16
million tons on the basis of expected production from known petroleum
reserves.
35.       While there are good prospects for increasing production from
existing fields, particularly Bombay High, India will need to import about
34% of its crude oil requirements in 1984/85 and this proportion will rise



-12-
in later years unless there are major new discoveries. Thus a concerted
effort to explore and develop India's petroleum resources, in order to
reduce imports, is of vital importance and is a central objective of
Government policy. Recent exploration results indicate the existence of
promising sedimentary basins where additional and more intensive
exploration efforts appear justified. To this end, the investment
programs of ONGC and Oil India Limited (OIL), the Government-owned
institutions engaged in exploration and development of hydrocarbon
resources, have been stepped up. The Sixth Five-Year Plan
(1980/81-1984/85) originally allocated about US$3.7 billion 1/ for
petroleum exploration and development, which itself represented an
increase of almost 50% in real terms over such expenditures in the
previous Plan. Revised allocations for the Plan period are now about US$6
billion 1/, a further increase of more than 60%. At the same time, in
recognition of the need to supplement these resources yet further, India
is making concerted efforts to attract risk capital by inviting foreign
oil companies to assist in exploring for oil, both onshore and offshore.
About half of the country's sedimentary basin areas have been offered to
private oil companies to participate in exploration under
production-sharing contracts.
Petroleum Pricing
36.       India is fully aware of the need to conserve energy and, to this
end, the Government has consistently set petroleum prices at levels
designed to ensure efficient energy use. Natural gas is sold directly by
the producers (ONGC and OIL) to the consumer on the basis of long-term
contracts that require Government approval. Natural gas prices vary
according to use and source. Offshore gas is priced at between US$1.49
and US$7.44 per thousand cubic feet. Onshore gas which was priced at
US$0.45-US$0.89 per thousand cubic feet in years past, is now being
substantially increased for gas originating in Gujarat to closely
approximate that of offshore gas. On a use basis, gas is priced at the
same energy equivalent price as the alternative fuel for which it is
substituting. On average, ONGC receives about US$4.11 per thousand cubic
feet for offshore gas, which is well above its production cost and is in
line with its economic value. The average level of gas prices is
currently satisfactory; it will be monitored closely during project
supervision to ensure that prices stay competitive as the number and type
of customers change with expanding supplies.
37.       Domestic petroleum product and crude oil prices are also
regulated by the Government. Crude oil prices to ONGC and OIL, which were
raised in July 1981 from US$6.1 per barrel to US$17.3 per barrel, ensure
satisfactory profits for the companies. In 1981/82, ONGC's profit per
barrel of oil (US$4/Bbl) was in line with the average for international
oil companies, primarily due to the lower royalty taxes and low production
1/ In 1980/81 prices.



-13-
cost of Bombay High oil. The profits provide adequate cash flow to enable
the companies to finance a major portion of their investment programs from
internally-generated funds. Although the current domestic crude prices
are below international levels, exploration anld development decisions are
based on international prices, and hence the lower domestic selling price
does not act as a disincentive to exploration and development. Under the
new production-sharing contracts, foreign oil companies will receive the
full international price for their share of production. Retail product
prices have been maintained, on average, at or above international levels.
At the present time, both the level and the structure of petroleum prices
in India are satisfactory.
Sector Institutions
38.        Within the Government, the Ministry of Petroleum, is charged
with policy-making in the petroleum sector. Together with the Ministry
of Finance and the Planning Commission, it approves all investments and
the budgets of public companies operating in the sector. ONGC and OIL,
both public sector undertakings, are engagedl in the exploration for, and
development of, hydrocarbon resources. Another public entity, the Indian
Oil Corporation, handles all of India's crude oil imports. The Oil
Industry Development Board is a financial institution which obtains funds
through a cess levied on domestic crude production and provides some
financing for public sector enterprises engaged in petroleum exploration,
production and refining. ONGC, the organization undertaking the South
Bassein development, is a Government-owned statutory body created in 1959
to plan, promote and implement the developrient of petroleum resources.
ONGC's statutes provide it with authority to acquire, hold and dispose of
property, to contract and to borrow. ONGC has evolved into a full-fledged
and competent oil coompany.
Petroleum Exploration and Production Policies, and Investment Strategy
39.        Until the 1950s, petroleum exploration was concentrated in
northeastern India, specifically, in Assami, Tripura and Nagaland. OIL was
established in 1959 following an oil discovery in Assam by Burmah Oil
Company (UK). The Government of India in:itially took a one-third equity
interest in OIL, increasing it to 50% in 1961. In October 1981, GOI
acquired all the Indian assets of the Burnah Oil Company, comprising its
interest in OIL and in the Assam Oil Company, a small firm whose
production units had been absorbed by OIL. In 1959 ONGC discovered
petroleum reserves in Gujarat, but Assam remained the major
petroleum-producing area in the country (4.2 million tons per year) until
the early 1970s when production in Gujarat exceeded 4 million tons per
year. Following the oil crisis of 1973, exploration activities
accelerated, particularly offshore, resu:Lting in the discovery by ONGC in
1974 of the Bombay High field and a number of significant but smaller
fields in its vicinity. The South Bassein gas field was identified and
drilled initially in early 1976. By 1981/82, oil production from Bombay
High had reached 8 million tons per annum, accounting for 50% of India's
oil production.



-14-
40.       To develop and efficiently utilize its petroleum resources, the
Government's investment program contains the following elements:
increased production from existing oil and gas fields, primarily by
accelerating the development programs of ONGC and OIL in areas where
petroleum has already been discovered; accelerated exploration programs
for ONGC and OIL; attraction of risk capital for exploration activities
through production-sharing agreements with foreign oil companies;
construction of new refineries and modernization of existing refineries,
especially through the introduction of conversion facilities to reduce
middle distillate imports; and development of the gas pipeline system and
construction of additional plants using gas as feedstock (e.g. fertilizer
and petrochemical plants).  As an example of attracting risk capital for
exploration, in late 1980, thirty-two blocks, each ranging in size from
10,000 to 30,000 km offshore and onshore, were offered 2to international
bidders.  The total area offered, almost 0.9 million km , represented
about 50% of the country's sedimentary basin area. One production-sharing
agreement has so2far been signed with a consortium led by Chevron (USA)
for an 18,500 km block in the Saurasthra basin offshore Gujarat, north of
the Bombay High field. The terms of the production sharing agreement
provide for Chevron to drill at least three wells, spending a minimum of
US$29 million over a three-year period, at its own risk. Upon commercial
discovery, ONGC may assume up to 50% joint venture in future development
(without payment of exploration costs), and production will be split
according to a scale which escalates with field profitability. Until
India achieves self-sufficiency in oil, GOI has the option to purchase
Chevron's share of the oil produced at international prices. Meanwhile,
invitations to bid on a second round of offerings have been issued. The
second offering includes about 50 blocks both onshore and offshore,
including new areas such as west of the Bombay High field (in 200 m of
water), and the outer-shelves of the Krishna-Godavari and Mahanadi deltas.
41.       GOT has extensively reviewed possible gas utilization strategies
with assistance from the Bank. An earlier (1979) study concluded that the
Liquified Petroleum Gas (C3/C4) fractions 1/ should be used as a kerosene
substitute, the C2/C3 fractions should be used as a petrochemical plant
feedstock as a substitute for imported naphtha and the Cl (lean) gas
fraction should be used as a fertilizer feedstock. As a result, GOI
accepted a recommendation that an additional six new gas-based
ammonia/urea fertilizer plants be constructed in addition to the four
already under construction. With a greater availability of natural gas
now being forecast through a further study commissioned in late 1981, GOI
has concluded that potential end-uses of gas should also include liquid
hydrocarbon fuel replacement (fuel and diesel oil in boilers and gas
turbines, kerosene for household use) and in some cases, as a supplement
1/ Natural gas consists of a number of chemical components or "frac-
tions," including inter alia Cl - methane; C2 - ethane; C3 - propane;
C4 - butane; C5+ - pentane and heavier fractions.



-15-
to coal in boilers and gas power generation. The current study will be
completed in detail in April 1983 but the Bank has concluded that the
Government's overall policies are reasonable. GOI would, whenever
necessary, update the gas supply and demand forecasts for the South
Bassein and Bombay High fields and provide the Bank an opportunity to
comment on it (Section 4.02, draft Loan Agreement).
Bank Group Involvement in the Petroleum Sector
42.       The Bank has made two loans totalling US$550 million for the
development of the offshore Bombay High oil field. The first loan of
US$150 million (Ln. 1473-IN) was made in 1977 and financed Phase III of
ONGC's Bombay High development program. The project was essentially
completed in March 1981, about two years behind the appraisal schedule,
due to a necessary change in the project scope resulting from new
information which resulted in higher prioril:y being given to the
development of the South Bombay High area rather than to the North Bassein
area. Nevertheless, about 70% of the targeted daily rate of production
had been attained by the project completion date anticipated at appraisal.
The facilities are operating satisfactorily. A Project Performance Audit
Report was issued to the Executive Directors on October 13, 1982. The
report contained a favorable review of the project. A second loan for
US$400 million (Ln. 1925-IN) was made in December 1980 to assist in the
financing of Phase IV and advanced action on Phase V of the program.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. A US$200 million
loan (Ln. 2123-IN) for a Refineries Rationalization Project was approved
in May 1982. Progress under it is satisfactory. Finally, a loan of
US$165.5 million (Ln. 2205-IN) was approved in October 1982 to support
exploration in the Krishna-Godavari basin.
43.       The Bank's role in the Indian petroleum sub-sector continues to
address several inter-related aspects with varying degrees of emphasis
depending on the specific projects. These aspects are: (i) providing
policy advice on hydrocarbon exploration, development, processing and
utilization strategy through Bank involvement in key projects;
(ii) assisting the domestic petroleum companies develop their technical
expertise and capability in each major phase of hydrocarbon exploration
development and processing; (iii) contributing to improve the technical
design and implementation arrangements of major projects; and
(iv) strengthening the profitability and financial structure of project
entities so that they can self-finance a substantial portion of their
investments and attract more commercial :,'inancing for such investments.
Over the past two years the Bank has had an extensive dialogue with ONGC
and GOI with respect to the development of India's offshore gas reserves,
concentrating in particular on the optimization of the design and
development of the largest offshore gas discovery so far, i.e., South
Bassein. The development of South Bassein presents a new challenge to
ONGC as it is the first major gas develcpment project in India. Such a
project, unlike crude oil projects, has to be optimized not only in terms
of reservoir considerations but also in relation to the future expected
market for natural gas given the extensive processing, pipeline and



marketing facilities required. The Bank therefore discussed with GOI,
ONGC, and its consultants, at various stages of project preparation, the
scope of market studies to be carried out and their conclusions. As a
result the main components of the project have been optimized in terms of
the anticipated market. During the implementation of the proposed
project, the Bank intends to continue helping GOI formulate a long-term
gas strategy designed, to accelerate the development of free gas reserves
while building a market for gas both as feedstock, and as a replacement of
liqu;id hydrocarbons.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The project was appraised in March 1982.  The Staff Appraisal
Report (Report No. 4097-INa, dated January 26, 1983) is being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. A Supplementary Project Data sheet
appears as Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in
November 1982. The Borower was represented by Mr. Misra of the Department
of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, as coordinator of the Indian
delegation.
45.       The purpose of the proposed project would be to accelerate the
sound and economic utilization of natural gas by establishing the basic
policy framework and the cornerstone physical infrastructure for
developing the market for gas. It will also support ONGC's strategy of
developing known petroleum reserves as quickly as possible. The project
will therefore contribute to a reduction in imports of petroleum,
fertilizer and petrochemicals.
46.       The South Bassein gas field is located approximately 65
kilometers west of Bombay in the Arabian Sea at a water depth of 57 meters
(see Map 16184 attached). The initial discovery well was drilled and
completed in early 1976 and, since then, twelve wells have been drilled to
delineate the structure of the reservoir. The reservoir is large and it
is conservatively estimated by McCord and Associates (USA) and ONGC to be
capable of maintaining a production rate of some 20 million cubic meters
per day (Mmcmd) for at least 20 years through some 24 production wells.
47,       Gas from the South Bassein production wells must first be
processed at the platform site to separate condensed and entrained natural
gas liquids (NGL). Subsequently, the gas would be transported via an
underwater pipeline to the shore facilities. Following location studies,
a pipeline route was chosen from the South Bassein field to a landfall
point near Umrat in the State of Gujarat, continuing overland to Hazira
(see Map 16184). A Bank-financed fertilizer plant being built at Hazira
will utilize the gas from this project. Simulation studies determined
that a 36-inch diameter pipeline would be the optimal pipe diameter for
the 235 km pipeline route, most of which (217 km) will be under water.
48.       The project comprises Phase I of ONGC's overall development of
the South Bassein gas field and will bring the production capacity to 5
Mmcmd of gas by June 1, 1985. Phase II would raise the production



-17-
capacity from 5 Mmcmd to 20 Mmcmd over the period 1984/85-1987/88.  The
Phase I development consists of:
(i) Drilling Platform: to accomodate six production wells
with provision for three additional wells to test oil
recovery techniques at a later date;
(ii) Process Platform: a two-deck platform containing NGL
separation and gas dehydration facilities with a design
capacity of 10 Mmcmd of gas;
(iii) Living Quarters Platform: a two-deck platform, connected
to the others by bridges, to provide living facilities for
125 persons with the necessary utilities and helideck;
(iv) Flare Platform: a simple platform connected by a bridge
to the process platform and containing the gas flare;
(v) South Bassein to.Umrat Pipeline: a 36-inch diameter,
217-km long submarine pipeline designed to carry 20 Mmcmd
of gas;
(vi) Umrat to Hazira Pipeline: a 36-inch diameter, 18-km long
buried pipeline to the terminal at Kawas, adjacent to the
Hazira fertilizer complex:
(vii) South Bassein - Bombay High Gas Tie-in: a 20-inch
diameter, 17-km long submarine pipeline from the South
Bassein processing platform to the existing 26-inch
diameter Bombay High gas :ransmission line;
(viii) NGL Line: a 12-inch diameter, 17-km submarine pipeline
from the South Bassein process platform to the 30-inch
diameter Bombay High crude oil transmission line;
(ix) Hazira Terminal Facilities: condensate separation,
stabilization and storage, utilities and ancillary
facilities; and
(x) Engineering and Technical Services and Reservoir
Consultancy: consultants to prepare engineering design
and bid packages and assist in construction, supervision
and overall project management -- (approximately
800 man-months at US$12,000 per man-month); to provide
other project services such as surveys and certification
of offshore installations; and to assist ONGC in
implementing and monitoring the gas production program.
The Reservoir consultancvr work will involve some 850
man-months at some US$17,500 per man month.



-18-
The pipelines would be installed by June 1984, the platform complex would
be completed by the end of May 1985 and South Bassein gas would begin
flowing to the Hazira fertilizer complex (the major customer in the early
years) by June 1985. From June 1984, gas for the Hazira plant start-up
operations would be met from associated gas produced from the Bombay High
field and transmitted through the South Bassein pipeline.
Project: Costs-and Financing
49.       The financing requirements of the project, including
contingencies, price escalation, and the front-end fee, are estimated at
US$701.5 million (in January 1983 prices) of which US$602.7 million
represents the foreign exchange costs. Taxes and duties included in the
above total costs are estimated at US$31.2 million. Physical
contingencies are estimated at 10% of base costs, and price escalations
were calculated on projections of price increases of 7.5% per year for
local goods and services and 8.0% in 1983/84 and 7.5% in 1984/85 and
1985/86 for foreign goods and services.
50.       ONGC is making substantial progress in arranging financing for
this development. The Kuwait Fund has agreed to provide US$50 million as
part of the financing package. The financing plan for the total
developmnent can be expected to include commercial loans and
supplier's/export credits for the fabrication and supply of the offshore
platforms and pipe materials to a value of US$250  million.  In addition,
ONGC would provide US$179.2 million from its own internal resources. The
IBRD loan would represent about 32% of total costs and 37% of the foreign
exchange costs.
51.       The Bank loan would be made to GOI on standard IBRD terms--20
years, including five years' grace, at variable interest rates. GOI would
onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan to ONGC at a minimum interest rate
of 12% per annum over a maximum of 15 years, including a five-year grace
period. The foreign exchange and interest rate risks would be borne by
GOI. The onlending rate is expected to exceed domestic inflation rates,
which are forecast not to exceed 8% annually over the next five years.
The five-year grace period is justified by the need for substantial
additional investments (US$1.6 billion in 1983 prices) for the Phase II
development program that will raise the production capacity to 20 Mmcmd by
1987/88. Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan (Section 6.01, draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       ONGC's procurement procedures, which for imported items are
similar to the Bank's international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures,
will be used for the bare pipe materials, fabrication and supply of
platforms, well materials and supplies, equipment and instruments for the
Hazira terminal, as well as telecommunications and telecontrol equipment
(US$304 million). These components will not be financed by the Bank,



-19-
however, and will include requests for supp]iers' and exim-bank financing
proposals. Bank ICB procedures will be followed for the platform
(US$47 million) and the pipeline (US$200 million) installation contracts,
the foreign exchange costs of which would be financed 100% and about 85%,
respectively, from the proposed Bank loan. The other 15% of the pipeline
installation foreign exchange cost (i.e. US$30 million) will be financed
by the Kuwait Fund. The procurement procedures of the Kuwait Fund will be
used for the pipe coating and wrapping contract (US$18 million), which it
will fully finance. The Bank will review and approve all the bidding
documents, bid evaluation and contracts to be fully or partially financed
from the proposed loan. In order to enable Engineering and Technical
services to go ahead without interruption, retroactive financing in an
amount not exceeding US$1 million for expenditures incurred after
December 1, 1982 is proposed (Schedule 1, draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursement of the Bank loan is expected to be completed by March 1985,
and the closing date would be December 31, 1985.
Project Execution
53.       ONGC is managed by a Commission consisting of a Chairman, six
full-time Members (Finance, Materials, Personnel, Exploration, Offshore
and Onshore) and two part-time members representing GOI's Ministries of
Finance and of Petroleum. ONGC's main administrative and financial
functions (planning, procurement and stores, accounting, personnel,
computer activities, etc.) are centralized in the corporate headquarters
at Dehra Dun in Uttar Pradesh, along with the main research and
development and training facilities. Operational staff are divided among
three regional offices (Central, Western and Eastern) and the Bombay
Offshore Project (BOP). Operational res-onsibility and the authority to
commit funds within their approved budgets have been delegated to Regional
Managers. ONGC would be responsible for implementing the project and
would utilize experienced foreign engineering and contracting firms for
designing and installing the platforms and pipelines. The basic
engineering design for the offshore platform complex was carried out by
Earl and Wright (USA) and that for the offshore pipeline and Hazira
terminal complex by Snamprogetti (Italy). The platform installation and
pipe-laying activities require a very h:igh level of technical competence
and know-how, as well as the utilization of very sophisticated equipment.
These tasks are the primary determinants of successful project
implementation and will be entrusted to experienced and qualified foreign
contractors.
54.       The South Bassein development, is being supervised by the Bombay
Offshore Project (BOP) group which is r-esponsible for all offshore
operations of ONGC.  BOP's arrangements for implementing past projects
have been effective and are satisfactory to the Bank. The central
platform complex, and the onshore and offshore portions of the South
Bassein/Hazira pipeline would be under the supervision of the Construction
Division of the BOP. The wells would be drilled either with an ONGC-owned
drilling rig or a contract rig, depending on which is available during the
time slot allotted for drilling. In addition to specific consultant



-20-
assistance to be contracted to assist ONGC's BOP Division in supervising
the installation of the platform complex, the pipeline laying, and the
well drilling activities, ONGC has also engaged the services of an
experienced group (King-Wilkinson, USA) to provide back-up support for its
entire offshore construction program. The latter consultant's assignment
would be to provide advice and assistance during all facets of offshore
construction. With no unforeseen major equipment delivery or construction
setbacks, ONGC should succeed in meeting its project completion targets.
ONGC - Financial Evaluation
55.       ONGC's overall financial position is sound, with a debt/equity
ratio of 50:50, a current ratio of 1.2 as at March 31, 1982, and a debt
service coverage ratio of approximately 8 for 1981/82. This satisfactory
situation is due both to the rapid increase in oil production from Bombay
High and to the increase in oil prices in July 1981. The debt service
coverage ratio is expected to decline to about 5.5 in the mid-1980s, but
this lower ratio is satisfactory. While its key financial parameters
(selling prices, investment programs) are decided by GOI, ONGC is able to
operate in a financially sound manner. ONGC's income statements over the
past four years demonstrate the Commission's rapid growth, primarily
because of expanding offshore production. Revenues have increased from
Rs 3.8 billion (US$422 million) in 1978/79 to Rs 13.8 billion (US$1,533
million) in 1981/82. Its financial performance during this period was
satisfactory, although its profits deteriorated somewhat in 1980/81,
reflecting the income foregone as a result of a lengthy stoppage of oil
production in Assam. During the period 1978/79-1981/82, ONGC's overall
investment amounted to Rs 17.6 billion (US$1,956 million), of which 55%
was financed from internal cash generation. ONGC's assets as of March 31,
1982 total Rs 22.6 billion (US$2,511 million), of which net fixed assets
totalled Rs 11.2 billion (US$1,244 million).
56.       Financial projections over the period 1982/83-1985/86 indicate
that ONGC's financial performance should continue to be satisfactory.
This forecast conservatively assumes that prices of crude oil and natural
gas to ONGC will remain constant in current terms, that the bulk of ONGC's
external financing requirements will be met by borrowings, with no
additional Government equity, and that no new discoveries of crude oil or
gas will be made during this period. The volume of crude oil sales would
continue to grow from 17.9 million tons in 1982/83 to 27 million tons in
1985/86, however, with steadily increasing profits as a result of the
accelerated development efforts, particularly in the Bombay High and South
Bassein fields.
57.       There is also the possibility that, in the event of large new
discoveries, ONGC would need to seek additional heavy borrowings to
finance unforeseen development costs. In order to protect ONGC's
financial position, GOI would periodically carry out a review of the
prices of crude oil and natural gas to ONGC and set such prices at a level
which would enable ONGC to earn a return on capital employed sufficient to
meet its debt service obligations, maintain adequate working capital, and



-2 1
finance a substantial portion (about 65%-70,', see para 58 below) of its
proposed capital expansion (Section 4.03, draft Loan Agreement). In
addition ONGC will submit annually to GO, an economic and financial
evaluation of the Project and of any subsequent major developments which
will indicate the level of prices required by ONGC to earn an after-tax
financial rate of return (i.e., discounted cash flow return) of at least
15% on the project and any other major developments (Section 4.03, draft
Project Agreement). Similar agreements have been reached under the three
previous Bank loans to ONGC and are being observed.
58.       ONGC's investment program for 1982/83-1985/86 is
Rs 109.6 billion (US$12.2 billion). While this program is ambitious, it
is well-balanced, and concentrates appropriately on accelerating the
exploration in the more prospective areas, such as the Krishna-Godavari
basin, and development of the more productive known oil and gas resources,
such as the Bombay High and South Bassein fields. The program anticipates
that ONGC will finance about 68% of investments from internal sources. To
help finance the balance of the investment program including the foreign
exchange requirements, ONGC is expected to utilize foreign borrowings,
both commercial and official. In line with this approach, ONGC's
international invitations to contractors and suppliers bidding on ONGC
investment projects now include requests for financing proposals. There
remains the possibility that, in the event of large new discoveries, ONGC
would seek additional heavy external borrowrings to finance development
costs which should be able to be accommodated given the conservative
proportion of loan financing of 32% of its planned investment during the
period.
59.       ONGC has already obtained commitrients for about US$254 million
of commercial loans/credits (Exim Bank, suppliers' credits, commercial
banks, etc.) during the first nine months of its fiscal year through
December 1982, in addition to about US$206 million of bilateral and
multilateral loans (including US$165.5 million from the World Bank for
the Krishna-Godavari project). Furthermore, bids with an aggregate value
of about US$167 million for which financing proposals have been received
and/or finalised, are under evaluation and will be awarded shortly.
Finally, several major bid packages requesting financing proposals with a
combined value of about US$283 million have been recently issued or will
be issued before the end of March 1983. The above figures do not include
the US$272 million being sought from the World Bank and the Kuwait Fund
for the specific financing requirements of the South Bassein Gas
Development Project. Additionally, ONGC is considering a euro-dollar loan
of approximately US$300 million. The Bank's contribution to ONGC's
overall foreign exchange financing requirenents over the project period is
expected to be about 9%.
Benefits and Risks
60.       The economic benefits of the South Bassein project are
essentially savings of imports of both liquid hydrocarbons and fertilizers
or fertilizer feedstocks resulting from the use of domestically produced



-22-
gas from South Bassein. The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project
is 38%. Should investment costs increase by 20%, the rate of return falls
to 32% and should revenues be reduced by 20%, a 29% ERR results. In a
"worst-case" scenario whereby investment costs are up 20%, revenue is down
20%, and the development is delayed by one year, the ERR falls to 21%,
which is still acceptable. The economic payback period of the project is
about 6 years. When the Phase II development is completed, the ERR of the
total development increases to 49% since, at the higher utilization rate,
economies of scale result. In arriving at these expected returns, no
increases in the real prices of energy have been assumed between the early
1980's and the 1990's and the estimates are therefore conservative. On an
after--tax basis, the financial rate of return is 19% and 26% for the Phase
I and Phase II developments respectively.
61.       The major risks facing this project fall essentially into two
categories:
i. reservoirs may not live up to expectations; and
ii. technical difficulties may affect the implementation
timetable and therefore the project costs.
With regard to the reservoir, the consultants (DeGolyer and McNaughton
[US] aLnd McCord and Associates [US]) and ONGC have independently concluded
that, with twelve wells already drilled on the structure (in excess of
what oil industry practice would normally require), it is highly unlikely
that the reservoir production targets would be in error. With respect to
technical difficulties in constructing the facilities, in drilling the
wells or in connecting the platforms and laying the pipeline, the risks
are normal for this type of project. ONGC has little previous experience
in developing offshore free gas fields. On the other hand, it has already
gained considerable expertise in managing offshore construction and
pipeline laying. Moreover, foreign consultants have been hired to assist
in all phases of the development. With respect to the utilization of the
gas, even if the Phase II development were to be delayed, production from
this project could be readily absorbed by the Bombay gas reticulation
system and the Hazira fertilizer complex. Even if the gas is used
primarily for liquid hydrocarbon replacement, the rate of return would be
satisfactory. Since the main risks of the project have been recognized
early and satisfactory precautions have been taken to minimize them, the
project remains economically justified and will provide significant
savings to the Indian economy in terms of both fertilizer and petroleum
imports.
Ecology and Safety
62.       The proposed project will cause few environmental disturbances
since offshore platforms, after installation, generally attract a large
aggregation of marine life and are not considered to be detrimental to the
ecology. Since this is a gas producing complex, there is essentially no
risk of oil spillage or other oil pollution. Both the onshore and the



-23-
offshore portions of the pipeline will be buried and, onshore, the
original surface features along the pipeline route will be restored. A
major international certifying agency will inspect and approve the various
stages of design, fabrication and installat:ion of the offshore
facilities--the commonly accepted practice -For such projects.  All
measures will be taken to minimize fire and other hazards. The platforms
will have the usual extensive array of gas detectors, deluge water spray
systems, dry chemical fire fighting systems, Halon fire suppressant
systems, and personnel safety and recovery equipment including survival
rafts, etc. ONGC's insurance practices were examined and found to be
satisfactory, and satisfactory arrangements will be made for insuring
project facilities (Section 3.03, draft Project Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and ONGC and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii), of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project: are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between India and
ONGC would be made a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01, draft
Loan Agreement).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI -- RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
February 2, 1983



ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                    Page  1  of  5
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ XjM.)                                                            MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-a
rOTAL           3287.6                                 MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1818.2               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   70.0       110.0     240.0              261.4                    890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     111.2        152.5     194.4              448.7                   701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THO'S.)  434850.0    547569.0  673207.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9         19.7      22.3               17.3                     32.4
lPOPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      994.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       1694.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       132.3       166.6     200.6              158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0        307.8     362.8              355.9                   1748.0
P'OPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          40.9        42.7      40.2               36.8                    39.9
15-64 YRS.                          54.5        54.2      56.8               59.7                    56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.6         3.1       3.0                3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8         2.3,      2.1                2.0                      2.3
URBAN                               2.5         3.3       3.3                3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.7          40.0      35.6               29.3                     31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     21.8         16.7      13.6               11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9         2.7       2.4                2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     64.0       3782.0    5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         12.0      22.6               19.3                    36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0        102.0      99.0              108.1                   115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   95.6         90.4      88.8/c             97.3                   106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          53.6         49.7      48.4/c             56.9                    54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.2        14.8      13.1/              20.0                    13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      26.2        20.7      17.4               10.9                      6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.2         48.1      51.8               57.8                    59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           165.0       139.0     123.4               89.1                    63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PCPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        17.0      33.0               32.9                    32.0
URBAN                                ..        60.0      83.0               70.7                    51.9
RURAL                               ..          6.0      20.0               22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCPETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         18.0      20.0               18.1                    37.7
URBAN                                ..        85.0      87.0               72.7                    65.7
RURAL                               ..          1.0       2.0                4.7                    24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4850.4       4889.0    3630.6             3297.8                  8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10975.3/d    8296.5    5696.1              4929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            217B.7      1612.9    1311.0/e           1100.4                  1047.5
URBAN                               ..           ..     362.3/i            301.3                   651.6
RiURAL                               ..          ..   10432.8/e          5815.7                   2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..        ..                 ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.2         5.6       5.2
URBAN                               5.2         5.6       4.8
RURAL                               5.2         5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.6         2.8
URBAN                               2.6         2.8
R'JRAL                              2.6         2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA-1SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVENGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECE,NT      LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 61.0        73.0      78.0/c             97.4                    96.2
MALE                 80.0        90.0      92.0/c            101.0                    99.8
FEMALE               40.0        56.0      63.0/c             87.8                    92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                20.0        26.0      27.0,'c            53.0                    37.6
MALE                 30.0        36.0      36.0,'             63.8                    41.1
FEMALE               10.0        15.0      17.0,'-            41.3                    34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  8.0          1.0        0.7.1f            1.7                    20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           46.1        41.5      51.81c             37.7                    35.5
SECONDARY                         16.0        20.9        ..               20.2                    25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       28.0        33.4      36.0               52.1                    73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSsNGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.6         1.1       1.3/c              1.5                     9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         4.9        21.5      33.t               35.4                   116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.0         0.0       l.C                3.2                    37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 10.6        16.0      19.i/              16.4                    53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.1         4.1       3.2'               3.6                     2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)  185951.1   219194.2  264204.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  30.7        32.5      31.3               29.5                    33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             74.0        74.0      69.3               70.0                    52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0        11.0      13.2               15.0                    17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.8        40.0      39.2               40.0                    38.5
MALE                                57.0        52.4      51.8               51.8                    50.5
FEMALE                              27.3        26.9      25.9               23.8                    26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1         1.1       1.1                1.0                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7        26.3/     22.2/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7        48.97i    49.4/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1         6.7F      70/.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6        17.2A    16,2/..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    132.0               133.8                   194.7
RURAL                               ..          ..    114.0               111.1                   155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                 ..                   178.2
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                ..                    164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      4C.3              43.8                     24.4
RURAL                               ..          ..      5C.7              51.7                     41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
Ic   1977; Id 1962;  /e 1976;  /f 1975; /. 1964-65.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DOEFINITIONS OF SDCIA  INDICATOIS
Nee  lhog   h  data are drawn Eros eoucesg      .ttely judged the  -co  cu  .iatnedr-Iiebl, It abc14 alec    tote.d tha  thrn say no-b ntr
ntoaly  -osprati  int tute of the lar  of  taderdzd deW               I'tnted conept use d by dilffere..coutr. e   ineletn    he data.  Th  daft ere. tor-
theta,.,  seful toOwerriteoriere.o I. gtde. idiat  trns.ed rhtrso_r    cado  salon elf  ..oeoletttteeco trOt..
of  he  ujc   o r  (xetfr             'ch In-oom,  01   byonr''aoc  hr  "Middle T-os  North Aftll ccced Nnddlt tact" J. nhtoce  b_. of .rt.oger
soc te-oltucelaffiniteol In Ine refracce  roup dit   h   oee1    r  pplto    eIhtd tclrh=I,romo   o  ai                  lao   n  sh-a  onl.eI,
eajrit  oftheccuurte t  a  rou  ha  dae tc tat  ndiato.  trcethetoooeg  ofcoutrIs congthelcdtoaoocdrptdc_c.he tNlsblltpof  at
for  croc. csue.ece   u   luiro gedeson.     bed fallue; 19?S dare.                          Ochotcitcntr.4 bopyal  ar   tallhetbpratsly  rfe
1970, srd linil date.     d                                                            indlca-d-lI,      It  b :cealater  cuse Pci-lf,po)chc   fe   n-atr   rc
Islcadpoieable    aa   fadttntlOle    o   ola
codPE IlNFIctA eUsoslc,ntrl a   o pn-  nucearet gptinrsl ter-go  rua   epraa   oa  o   ue  ncptl   adedolan   ceet
PlfiPidtIlfl diAl 9114i1.                                                             -rr-rA_O'in lli
Iccen Porulatlun. ibId-tear Ithousende) - Al uP dulp to 0167. lPPO. ond :_78P.1_incoitt;c
aeoftcccooctee; 167   61.cd18  dote                                                          the holath60ld170cr tdo1979ccgl p. np.. t.        -    1-   .          -
Prjcio,-eetn   o  srdlo    ea  ccru  o   he Itclono-                                        cocupe  parte.               -   l-   fb..                       d-.l
log lne eyac ecryt iicn.  ccreeiccltincuntt 'tper  apot  iccst               gteaeo Elcini Ito(roneno  f celllno) -tota, utan, od rral 
lecel  and  esel  litrcope reoc  togll lone a I PP-  9pe.  iaan-CtAnitnldhlyclec    lcrlicto10d   qgnn
ooeucr        enibo  ri  ec   oeocor  eel   wano  dcie.nc                                        Sit_l cya,gdrya   ell  t  cpcic
froolloty enrondtnt to onnoce  cccl ard poet fealty plecooco cerfcrsaocs.d r.r.1
feIonr fecrntcodoeo  decoffnIc               bihttoec  oraly               lbIIi
end ftotlotptreod  for  d pn Iclorcca.dOte   ootetttc
Sltlnrp  nllotlon  - "00s ic _r pouaIntec-so  rohlo                                    Playtho    .ct..acedPeucGuote,  aeadfnl
nociloheO   I  cuC  o  tne eah  oc,  ndgle  heetaacucuc  P-'h";lwc  ofal                     b.ee  tdth   pItar   lcc   on  enentge   of1l, Jepcr
sent iwoe...                                                                                educglonqorrg    _eafu   yotc Plrcdnsnoaroi
"ita'l anY .116,  170ao  119det._nloc   taoode,  lder-l   rch"pone   hc   yrc   oee
Osrn.A.0-onocu~ltucl-     odOsp-do            cocortIdoortoo                               et-1ednucae            do -ljd.nocroo- ocp        e
coI; 160.191 ed- 179  ahf                                                              PpIl th,h,,ct I -  riory  co u.oo.rpI...               nod....    oc..e.I
paco pueCt_    e  191.-.in  19 --in  und 17-1-.....
pnro>elcnrcotoooluncroi-dcIlyoo-douguot,            canulotect-                  IntOynO
leo ont on 151-I, 191-70  ond197191.PoeeurCr  pe  oeco  uulocl-Ptoca   unotno
Occc  lro  an  (oo  betood  -totu  lIe  oohope  oouondonsi-pan   coe  e"ndglan  ha  eglt prcnt  cnl-d ehulotn,heurneo i
ocotlutlon   Ighf. 190, god 199  dunn.                              hncdcceoeccoounel rulO..yen ohoeooudoP rccoullcoltud1fcoc-
lrel'hd.ulo  othorIduocfa6oenecae*liral                                                    ico-deocenpooonlenlrteehtagsnaon9fal
P-sc o  ohl-balo   ge15-1nerl  h   c   fnhnurn    donet OWpua lntooct(onfcecdnotooo.)-ndoc h dnag   0
eli-snee  co60r  197 teso    1979 grup                                                       ulrloofdal  goca  lco---eeppn'.dl 00   eatellt
Otnl ifIn  mtd prcaily1   eedn    eee  nw.I  ctnlee
PALO#017 nyllOIt                                                        c ha'alY       I I ftpec  e-Plg-f ccctdmea-eh
PaIt1of t-ccoe    1950u 60r  1960occ  rdthe   1970-60. 190dn 91dt,ft:tbofca(lcenc)-ineoul   elepPcl.bc.dc
pe    19p.Anlltl s9pyl lee 198yola-  hoenceootIn   noo   onto  cnhs    9                                      90ad16   ac
qu 9etot 0oe    1970 fo d p It'SC.  n  lcetO  dendc.           thit-u1t1cca(eoun  -Ltr eoco    -n 0  foefoy --ocg-o   r  .di
ao   atIerioic   fpeuuh-.coatlPlg  7cacn  frcah   f                                            o  eerlor,  ac  cdo                    Y npecotg   f  od  cn   too
hocltl leor   tfl-t,-00   c                ...otoc.  I.                                      nh6. 1670 cod 1990 eeoc.l
Pen rchol-, turleof-necln(oer      w   p)-pncocna-e   e   alo                            fnllcloto   rntn  -Onto. 0 T00 unOi t..la-er. clnb In n
000 coply nOfond  on Icy   lot cpply If folatOn. dfIned o p oor,  in-r..         ucn-lyc1     ccnenrun 01cicI  tale,nod  ro...leTo  d.ryn
Pnl   oo- ooo;11-S,17  cd17dco.t  tOo2! octalUleho- lornc.-    .--
cue ernue I-I nocco, to chtldnen On ohon u~t gnecp, f f POOO  -ccnplotlcn-_                 if itcen,  icrell -`cn  ,' pue-o   P- p-nto  cd  ncrtor olpfct
toln deco, IcledIo  lIf  tehlcd- 960,d1-7 godd1980 Icok.n  hnthldnd,l
cilIph                                                                             P0010d7i-dglid  GROUP 
othtot; 9f0,197  end .-1960d000                                                            ccd  bhcldtuorpccdthenutctou-
lnathrclouolrnletto-cul   too  fuceoonwoone                                         Eceocdeltcotnntnooaolllncoyoltnocdr.o
of_Apnolucdlc g......                                                         LAB6ORlO  n  161dcc  ddCEroethcctlalInr   nn   ce   ecolhcoolu
Aeccsoncfruocroplnoeeonuootn)If Io.opu,onI                 pl Ie u.oiolrdecfdcplccoolln-ct-llomoono
harupoelo  loIu.cotc.ulnunllnocccocctloletn19uee                               ufordhle
notrdcchA-thclrccnnoccchuohopc,ontc......ucroelec .onoioltoPoooptcerlca_toi-npo  ccacpecpI
forpc,oaow  nO  hel.  coooo ItoPoploon    honofuotcnhloyncnl  ooc  ftf nccn    tu   oclOgcne    reote-ug
longicncdpeolcucdo--bccteo00.copePre960t,eoclcce1970conn    icohog 980 concl-                                                        Igoohouoe
notlsnde    016  ontonucocOcecoe  f  1s boe. ccoorc  oca            ucsec  Polu -e F.c- telf   eciIlnerte    ioed      og
lteecoueclendtbi(FADcr-d         hynclaon.ceal.... cdur
lonben    ....cl Idf..... co.  uoouolo- -   chnnnenntpnaI
P_    eI  cnncdcoool    he                 ltru   Incuod 19 Ot0adttoet
plae peltlecnoo  u  eloalochel i ule-olo   ioey Iunocc tolaalcen a.lc-d                                                           co franoat
!ppholeooon py  Ofunt 01 p enon - pocluIdc do d20oldoc                                     9  ind  1         a ouhhf-n.p-enheon    ha" 1900pli,.i
nupatno; eucll lerttro.,IIf 1d I



ANNEX I
Page 4 of S
ICONlUIC DEVELOPMKNT DATA
GNP PIR CAPITA IN 19 80 US$ 24
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980/81 -                                                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices) 
US$ Bln.       ,                19 5556-1959160  126016l-1964J6    1965/66-1969770   1970/71-1974/7    1975/76-197 980
GNP at Market Prices                  159.37      100.0                     3.7                3.6                 3.6                 2.9                4.1
Gross Domestic Investment              38.46       24.1
Gross National Saving                  35.30       22.1
Current Account Balance                -3.16       -2.0
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Force    /             V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.              %              Mil.        7                  US$         i of National Average
Agriculture                            39.8             39.6             180.6      70.7                 220              56
Industry                               25.2            15.1               32.2      12.6                 783             199
Services                               35.5            35.3               42.6      16.7                 833             211
Total/Average                         100.5             1*7 ZZw                    lO                    N
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government         e/                                       Central Government
Rs. BIn.         7 % of GDP                                          Rs. Bln.          7 of GDP
1980/81   1980/81  1976/77 1980181                                   1980/81    1980/81   1976177-1980/81
Current Receipts                    238.19      19.0         19.1                                        125.41       10.0           10.6
Current Expenditures                238.93      19.0         18.0                                        133.29       10.6           10.6
Current Surplus/leficit              -0.74      -0.1          1.1                                        - 7.88      - 0.6           N.S.
Capital Expenditures  f/            107.35       8.5          7.6                                         79.99        6.4            5.4
External Assistance (net) d/         12.86       1.0          1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES            1970/71    177          1975io 6 1o t n 976/77d   197277    1978179    1979/80    1980/81    Fab2fary 1981   February 1982
(Re Billion outatanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                109.8       194.6       223.2       273.2        329.1      398.6       467.9        553.1         536.13           615.53
Bank Credit to Government (net)    54.6           95.3        97.9       118.5       137.3       162.4       201.0        258.1         238.22           292.18
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector   64.6          126.5       153.7       185.1       212.2       253.5       306.3        363.2         349.03           422.15
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                                      April-Feb 1980181  April-Feb  1981/82
Money and Quasi Money as 7 of GDP  27.3           28.0        30.1        33.9        40.8        40.9        44.1         44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                    100.0       174.9       173.0       176.6       185.8       185.8       217.6       257.0          255.9                    280.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                  7.7        25.2        -1.1         2.1          5.2        -          17.1         18.1           18.4                      9.6
Bank Credit to Government (net)    15.0            9.2         2.7        21.0         15.9        18.3        23.8        28.4           28.6 S'                  1227 h/
Bank Credit to Comercial Sector   29.4            18.2        21.5        20.4        14.6        19.5        20.8         18.6           16.6 S/                 20.9 hI
a/  The par capita GNP eltimate is at mrket prices, calculated by the cowversios technique used in the World Bank Atlas, 1-81.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/  Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organization.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank *stimates; not necessarily consistent vith official figures.
a/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties hevecbeen netted out.
j/ Percentage change from end-February, 1980 to end-February 1981.
hc  Percentage change from end-February, 1981 to ed-February 1982.
iI  Total labor Force and per-enta.e breakdovo fron Sixth Five Year Pln., Tble  .6 and Annexure Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYmENTS               1978/79    1979/80    1980/81 A  1981/82             MERCHANDISE EXFORTS (AVERAGE 1977/78 - 1980/81)
(US $ Xln.)                                                                                                         us$ HM.
Exports of Goods                   6,978       7,998       8,504       8,700           Engineering Goods              908         12
Imports of Goods                  -8,519    -11,302    -15,838    -16,000              Tea                            506          7
Trade Balance                     -1,541      -3,304    - 7,334    - 7,300             Gems                           403          5
NFS (net)                            717       1,100         722         915           Clothing                       501          7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                   - 824      -2,204    - 6,612    - 6,385                Products                    457          6
Jute ManLufactures             303          4
Interest Income (rnet) k/             14         196          370         212          Iron Ore                       321          4
Net Transfers   1/                 1,185       1,577       3,079       1,840           Cotton Textiles                316          4
Sugar                          102          1
Balance on Current Account           375       - 431      -3.163      -4,333           Others                       3,541         48
Official Aid                                                                           Total                        7.448        100
Disbursements                   1,695       1,738      2,337        2,724  ,/      EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1981
Amortization                    - 702       - 608       - 707       - 659                                                 US$ billion
Transactions with IMF              - 158         -         1,035         690           Outstanding and Disbursed                   17.2
All Other Items                      265       - 475         147       - 797           Undisburaed                                  7.5
Outstanding, including                     24.7
Increase in Reserves (-)          -1,475       - 224         351       2,375               Undiabursed
Gross Reserves (end year)Ep/       7,357       7,579       7,228       4,853
Net Reserves   (end year)  f/    7,357         7,579       6,901       3,876           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980/81  i / n/  11.2 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                             IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECEMBER 31. 1981
Imports  (Petroleum)               2,043       4,045       6,657       6,075                                                US8 million
IBRD         IDA
Exports                                24          26         33         na
Outstanding and Disbursed         984          5646
Undisbursed                       880          4634
outstanding, including
Undisbursed                  1864         10280
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971             US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972         US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                        Floating Rate
Spot Rate eod-December 1980               US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1981               US$1.00 - Rs 9.099
Re 1.00 - US$0.110
]/ Estimated.
%/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and
charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
1/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
-   included within official aid disbursements.
m/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
74 Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
o /  Includes $ 234 million of cosmercial borrowings.
p/ Including gold.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 23
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND ]'DA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1982)
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                          Bank            IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
46 Loans/                                                1,568.0
75 Credits fully disbursed                                   -           4,352.4             -
342-IN    1973      Education                               -              12.0           0.79
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                         -              30.0           13.36
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                     -              83.0          21.60
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                         -              27.7            9.78
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                    -              16.4            1.24
585-IN    1976      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply              -              40.0          10.98
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                     -             105.0           5.95
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                   -             150.0          27.19
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.            -               4.0            1.19
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development           -              18.0           8.02
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation             145.0             -            57.10
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                                40.0             -              4.34
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                       25.0             -            19.47
1313-IN    1977      Telecommunications VI                  80.0             -              7.07
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                 25.0             -             6.31
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development               -              30.0          17.07
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development               -              20.0           4.48
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                 -             150.0           14.13
690-IN    1977      WB Agric. Extension & Research          -              12.0          11.80
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                      14.0             -             5.86
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development                 -              10.0           2.71
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                              23.0          11.81



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 23
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development          -               8.0            4.86
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                  -              70.0           14.19
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension              -              13.0            2.47
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                       -              58.0            7.30
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                       78.5             -              4.00
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage                -             107.0           71.45
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II           -              87.0           10.06
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                            -               8.0            6.67
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector               25.0             -              7.17
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power           105.0             -             22.25
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                    -             117.6          64.06
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                     -             200.0           71.61
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture              -              14.0           11.74
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                      -              85.0           48.21
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                -              17.5           11.20
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                       -              16.0           12.69
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII                120.0             -             37.00
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                          -             150.0          103.36
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                  -             196.0          174.69
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                      -             111.0           13.07
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                        -             190.0           97.94
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage          -              38.0           13.19
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research          -              27.0           22.28
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -                  25.0           12.16
871-IN    1979      NCDC                                    -              30.0           10.16
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               50.0             -             50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power                -             200.0         101.84
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                       -             129.0           80.38
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply                -              48.0           24.15
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II          -             175.0           39.07
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry           -              23.0           12.79
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II               -             210.0          123.37
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry              -              37.0           22.55
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                        -              20.0           18.90
981-IN    1980      Population II                           -              46.0           42.20
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                    -              32.0           27.07
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                          -              18.0           10.59
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                   -             175.0          150.89



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 23
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                               -              22.0           19.90
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                    -             300.0          239.39
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension           -              10.0            9.58
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport                -              56.0          45.91
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                   -              54.0           50.L6
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                         -              80.0           69.47
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                     100.0             -             20.35
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  25.0             -             25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                   -             225.0          194.24
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                    30.0             -             26.67
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                       400.0             -             82.69
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                       -              35.0           24.25
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                       -              83.0           63.01
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II             -              42.0           29.53
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                  -             140.0          117.07
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                 -             314.0          193.52
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation               -              54.0           46.49
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project               -             400.0         314.42
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.           -              23.0           19.60
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.            -              28.0          23.28
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II               -              37.0           31.98
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                 -             125.0          101.29
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project - [I    -                 400.0         400.00
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation         -             220.0          206.02
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                  100.0             -             81.29
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry             -              29.0           26.94
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development                -              25.0           25.00
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                             150.0             -            141.49
2076-IN    1982       Ramagundam Thermal Power II          300.0             -            300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                               190.0              -           190.00
1209-IN    1982      ARDC IV                                 -             160.0           66.36
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                            -                6.0           6.00
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization            200.0                          200.00
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III*            304.5                          304.50
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     20.3                           20.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 23
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                                     60.0          60.00
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply+*                                 72.0          72.00
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry*                            33.0           33.00
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh II                              31.0          31.00
Irrigation*
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation+*                             127.0          127.00
rotal                                     4,095.3         10,955.6
of which has been repaid                1,173.0            106.7
Total now outstanding                     2,922.3         10,848.9
Amount Sold                      133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8           -                -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/         2,922.3         10,848.9
Total undisbursed (excluding *)           1,308.1          3,982.7
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in
terms of their US dollar equivalents, as established at the time
of Credit negotiations and as subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived
from cumulative disbursements converted to their US dollar
equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar exchange rate
(1 SDR = US$1.07234) in effect on September 30, 1982.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.
+   Not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 23
B. STATEMENT OF ]FC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.2      8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -      28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8        -       18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.              15.9         -       15.9
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd..            8.1         -        8.1
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         207.5       12.1    219.6
Less:   Sold                           53.0        2.6     55.6
Repaid                        26.4         -       26.4
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                     121.9        8.2    130.1
Undisbursed                  103.0        0.5    103.5



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 23
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of September 30, 1982)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$1,245 million in FY82, compared to
US$962 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through September 30, 1982 total US$287 million, representing an
increase of about 76% over the same period last year. The undisbursed
pipeline as of September 30, 1982, is US$5,291 million.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051 Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 million loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing nedium- and large-scale
industries, often in the high technology fields and are also mostly
export-oriented. Disbursements are on schedule for the twelfth loan and
ahead of schedule for the thirteenth and fourteenth loans.
Ln. No. 1260   Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 23
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan funds were fully committed
in December 1981, but close supervision has been necessary to ensure timely
implementation of sub-projects and full disbursement of the loan by the
closing date. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the pooling of private and
public capital in medium-scale joint venl:ures. The project also assists IDBI
in carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector.  Progress
is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Projezt; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Project progress is good. Land acquisition has been completed and
construction began in July 1982. Basic engineering work was completed on
schedule at the end of August. Procurement is proceeding as planned.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1125 Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
As of June 1982, 31 of the 37 fertilizer sub-projects being funded
by Credit 598 have been completed and a:re in operation. IDA has agreed to a
six-month extension of the closing date to December 31, 1982, by which date
the remaining six sub-projects will be zompleted and the credit fully
disbursed. Credit 1125 is proceeding satisfactorily. Site preparation is
well advanced. All major design and critical procurement work is essentially
complete, and detailed engineering is now being carried out. Disbursements
are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 2123 Refineries Rationalizaticn Project; US$200 million loan of
May 5, 1982; Effective Date: June 29, 1982; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986
Project implementation is satisfactory. The conversion component
is making very good progress. Preparal:ion work and investment approvals for
the energy efficiency and pollution control components are expected to be
completed on schedule. Attention is now being turned to the construction
programs under the project.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 23
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing well. All platforms and subsea pipelines
have been installed essentially on schedule. ONGC reached its targetted
production level of 240,000 Bbl/day in May 1982, and is presently producing
250,000 Bbl/day, 44% of which comes from project wells.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 nillion credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 nillion loan and
and        US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 874   May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Ln. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793, together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 23
which also became effective March 16, 1982, support sinilar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053 assists: in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 supports the construction of a 500 MW extension of
the Tata Electric Companies- station at T:.ombay, designed to help meet the
forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power
projects are progressing satisfactorily. Construction works for the
Singrauli, Korba, and Farakka stations are on or ahead of schedule, although
some slippage has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam
project. The first unit at the Singrauli station was commissioned on
schedule in February 1982, and the second unit in October 1982. The first
unit at the Korba station is scheduled to be commissioned in January 1983.
In the Third Trombay project, design modifications for plant equipment, price
increases for materials, and increases in customs duties have resulted in an
increase in the total cost of the project. The Government of India is
raising additional funds from internal sources to meet the additional cost.
Cr. No. 911   Second Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 2165  Third Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$304.5 million
loan of June 22, 1982; Effective Date: October 21, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1936
Under Credit 911,. project implementation is progressing approximately
on schedule without major problems. Procurement of materials and equipment
is well advanced. Disbursements of the credit proceeds are ahead of
appraisal projections. Under Loan 2165, initial project progress is
satisfactory. Procurement is approximately on schedule, with the State
Electricity Boards (SEBs) now proceeding with bid invitations.  REC is
reorganizing its capability to monitor financial performance of the
individual SEBs, which is likely to have a beneficial effect on this project
as well as on Credit 911.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112 Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily. They are
overcoming initial delays caused by procurement problems and a five-month
labor strike against one of the indigenous suppliers. All funds from
Loan 1313 have been committed and procurement action under Loan 1592 is well
advanced. Disbursements are expected to accelerate as work progresses. The



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 23
Posts and Telegraphs Department remains a financially sound and
efficiently-managed organization. Credit 1112 provides for the continued
expansion of the Indian telecommunications network, particularly in rural
areas, the establishment of three new telecommunication equipment factories
and the modernization and upgrading of three existing ones. Bid evaluation
is progressing satisfactorily and it is expected that the project and its
individual sub-projects will proceed according to schedule.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability. Physical execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily. The wheel and axle plant is expected
to be operational by December 1982, and Indian Railways' financial and
traffic performance continues to improve.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule. The majority of the equipment required for the
project has been delivered. Contracts have been awarded for civil works
totalling to about US$13 million and work began last March.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033  Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with over 70%
of the loan disbursed. Construction of new workshop facilities began in
January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan closing date may have to
be extended one year.  A bus fare revision on April 1, 1982 increased
revenues by 20% and will enable the project authority to achieve its targeted
operating ratio.
There has been good progress in meeting the physical investments
under Credit 1033. Delivery of more than 600 buses and trams required for
the project should be completed by March 1983. However, management
performance of the project authorities must be improved if they are to
achieve the operational and financial performance targets agreed to. IDA is
engaged in detailed discussions with the Government of West Bengal of
measures required to alleviate existing and possible ftuture problems.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 23
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24 nillion credit of
April 11, 1977; Effective Daze: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185  Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 rillion credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Madras Urban Development I, Credit: 687, is fully disbursed and
scheduled to close on December 31, 1982. The project was implemented
satisfactorily and met its basic objectives, introducing low-cost design
standards to provide slum improvements to over 25,000 households, sites and
services development on 14,000 plots, and improved water supplies;
introducing improved urban management systems; and augmenting the city-s bus
fleet and the operational management capabilities of the bus company. The
second project, Credit 1082, is proceeding satisfactorily, with the exception
of the sites and services component, where legal challenges are causing
delays in land acquisition. The Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) is actively
pursuing the resolution of these court cases so that land acquisition can be
completed by October 1982 and the sites and services works finished by the
project closing date. Under both credits, the financial performance of the
Pallavan Transport Corporation (PTC), the project implementing agency, is
unsatisfactory. It is not generating funds sufficient to meet its financial
targets. An action plan to cut operating costs, reduce new investment, and
raise revenues has recently been formulated and, subject to the agreement of
GOTN, will enable PTC to achieve the required targets by 1983/84 and maintain
them thereafter.
Physical performance in the Calcutta project is generally good. All
sub-projects presently under implementation are scheduled to be completed by
March 31, 1983. Following a review of the overall program for Calcutta's
further development, the Government of West Bengal shifted its investment
priorities somewhat and consequently requested a revision of some components
of this project. IDA agreed to the suggested changes, and the closing date
has been extended by nine months to allow for completion of the redefined
project.
Credit 1185, which became effective in April 1982, is aimed at
providing shelter and urban services in Kanpur, the largest city in Uttar
Pradesh. Initial progress has been mixed. The project authority is hampered
by lack of adequate staff with proper atnagement expertise, and land
acquisition disputes are causing delays in civil works. However, there has
been good progress in the slum-upgrading component, where improvements
benefitting about 3,700 households are nearing completion, and the
institution-strengthening aspects of the project are proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 23
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Physical works under the project are approximately 90% complete.
However, financial performance of the implementing agencies has been
generally poor, and it is likely that many of them may not be able to meet
the financial performance targets agreed with IDA.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Under Credit 842, construction is in progress on the Panjrapur
Treatment Plant, on several reservoirs, and on major water mains; and
procurement contracts are well advanced for the remaining project works.
Revised cost estimates have been prepared because of the delay in the start
of construction. The financial performance of the project authority has been
good.
Implementation under Credit 848 is satisfactory, and the overall
financial performance of the project authorities has improved considerably.
Recent progress under Credit 899 is encouraging. Land acquisition
and construction are proceeding according to the revised implementation
schedule. Following a recent tariff revision, the project entities
financial performance should improve in FY83.
Under the Rajasthan project, Credit 1046, the rural water supply
schemes are well advanced and engineering designs for the urban schemes are
nearly finalized. The financial performance of the Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage Board has been good. A recent Cabinet decision has deferred the
construction of the planned Hemawas/Kuri Pipeline to provide water to the
city of Jodhpur, in order to consider the possibility of accessing water from
the Rajasthan Canal instead. A consultant has been hired to analyze the
engineering and cost alternatives which would be fully assessed when the
alternative proposals are received in about one year s time.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 23
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)        Composite Project; US$145 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Dale: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigat:ion Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 23
Cr. No. 1177  Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 16, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Ln. No. 2186  Kallada Irrigation Project; US$20.3 million loan and US$60 million
and       credit of July 6, 1982; Effective Date:  September 21, 1982;
Cr, No. 1269  Closing Date:  March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1288  Second Chambal Madhya Pradesh Irrigation Project; US$31 million
credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date:  Expected November
1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads.
Delays in construction caused by initial shortages of cement caused
the Maharashtra I project to fall considerably behind schedule. For the
future, cement will be allotted to the project on a priority basis. In both
Maharashtra projects, increased attention is needed to improve the quality of
construction work in accordance with agreed and appropriate technical
staindards, and to correcting the deficiencies which are now present in the
systems.
The Karnataka project is experiencing serious delays in command area
development and completion of construction of the distribution system, due
mainly to lack of proper support from the State Government and inadequate
staffing of the project entity. The urgent attention of the State Government
must be devoted to the early resolution of these implementation problems.
The Gujarat Medium project is substantially behind schedule, but
performance is expected to improve with the recent resolution of technical
design problems. A detailed review of the project in July established a
revised implementation schedule for the duration of the project. Lack of
proper management and planning in the Gujarat II project have contributed
to serious delays, which may contribute to considerable cost overruns. Due
to unresolved political problems, the Heran component (16% of project costs)
has been deleted. In March 1982, the Government of Gujarat sanctioned nearly
300 new staff positions in the Irrigation Department to be assigned
exclusively to the implementation of World Bank projects. This is expected
to help improve progress in both Gujarat projects, although the project
authorities and State Government officials will need to devote considerable
time and effort if the problems are to be overcome and momentum
re-established.
Progress in canal and watercourse lining is behind schedule in the
Punjab project due to shortages of cement and inadequate provision of
budgetary resources. The Government of Punjab has recently completed a



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 23
review of the project and a revised implemenatation plan for the duration of
the project is to be presented to IDA in November 1982.
The Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project got off to a slow start
due to delays in selecting the sub-projects to be included. Eleven
sub-projects have now been appraised, and tendering is underway. The pace of
implementation, and the rate of disbursements, are therefore expected to
accelerate. Initial progress under the Maclhya Pradesh Major Irrigation
Project was delayed by serious start-up problems--among them, considerable
staffing vacancies in the project entity, tuse of inefficient and cumbersome
procurement procedures, delays in the appoLntment of consultants, and
deficiencies in technical designs of the irrigation works.  The Government
of Madhya Pradesh is keely aware of these problems and is taking steps to
correct them. Project progress is expected to improve soon.
Progress of the remaining projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction of about 160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State o:r Karnataka. As of February 1982,
six of these schemes had been sanctioned :Eor implementation, and another 28
were in various stages of preparation. Initial progress with project
preparation has been slow due to staff constraints and unfamiliarity of local
engineers with the design criteria agreed under the project.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Physical progress is proceeding satisfactorily, with approximately
40% of planned tubewells completed. The operation and maintenance units to
be set up in the Irrigation Department a-re not yet established. The
Government of Uttar Pradesh has been urged to fulfill this requirement
expeditiously. Project completion may be delayed by six months due to
initial procurement delays.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
*            Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 23
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; IUS$8 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137  Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7,1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135  Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138  Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$37 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219  Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$6 million credit of May 5, 1982; Effective Date: July 27,
1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in thirteen States in India. In areas where the reformed
extension system is in operation, field results have been most encouraging,
both in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased
crop yields.
In Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, in particular,
significant gains have been made under the projects.
In Assam, after some delays field work continues to improve, the
field research stations are focussing their activities on local requirements,
and the agricultural university is providing good support to extension
training and research.
In West Bengal, a change in government brought a two-year hiatus in
project implementation, but the new State Government has reaffirmed its



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 23
support, and project activities have resumed. There has been considerable
progress in all project components. However, completion of the project in
accordance with its original objectives has required an extension of the
closing date.
Following the decision by the Government of Bihar (GOB) in January
1982 to provide necessary funds for the project and fill key posts there has
been considerable improvement. The project is being extended to a further
11 districts, bringing the total under implementation to 16 out of a possible
31. GOB has made provision for adequate budgetary resources for 1982-83, and
all extension and research staff required have been appointed, except among
village extension workers where some vacancies persist. GOB plans to
consolidate the extension system in the ctLrrent 16 districts before extending
it to the entire State.
In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project, the basic extension system has been
established and attention now needs to focus on the quality of extension
recommendations and the filling of remaining staff vacancies.
In Kerala, project implementation has begun in three of eleven
districts and is operating satisfactorily. Further progress on the project
will require an early decision by the State Government to extend the T & V
system to the remaining eight districts.
In Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, project implementation is going
extremely well. Field activities by extension staff are generally well
organized and conducted. Recommendations are widely accepted by farmers.
Initial implementation of the Madhya Pradesh II project has been
slow due to the Government's delay in sanctioning necessary budget resources,
and transferring of Department of Agriculture staff to work in the extension
service. Field activities are being carried out in only two of the four
Year I districts, and have not yet begun in the seven Year II districts.
Considerable orientation in the objectives and procedures of the reformed
extension service is required by staff at: all levels.
Early steps are being taken in the Andhra Pradesh project for the
commencement of training, monitoring and evaluation, and civil works
activities, and the procurement of equipment and vehicles. Field work has
yet to begin, pending the issuance of required governmental orders for the
transfer of staff to the reformed extension service.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project progress continue satisfactorily. Implementation of the
small-holder component, the project's largest, is gaining momentum. The
banking program is functioning well, with the volume of loans sanctioned up
35% over the previous year. The three crumb rubber factories included in the
project are in operation and the cashewrut plantations are 85% complete.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 23
Ln. No. 2095  Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
and       US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
Cr. No. 1209  1982; Effective Date:  May 25, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC's lending program to farmers, mainly for minor
irrigation, and including amounts for diversified lending and for the support
of training programs for the staff of participating banks. Implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
The project requires improvement in several areas. Civil works and
procurement are both somewhat behind schedule, the Project Unit needs
additional staff and there are technical deficiencies in the experimental
agricultural activities being carried out under the project. However, the
pace of sub-project approval during 1981-82 has been satisfactory and
implementation of the sub-projects in the States of Gujarat and Andhra
Pradesh is good.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The primary aim of this project is to assist in the development of
the agricultural universities in Bihar and Assam, improve the quality of
practical training provided to students and enhance their employment
opportunities. Implementation of the civil works component of this project
was initially delayed at both locations on account of frequent top management
changes, shortages in raw materials and political unrest (in Assam). Project
implementation has accelerated recently and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the closing date.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date
June 30, 1983
Construction of storage capacity of 1.5 million tons has been
completed, with another 300,000 tons in progress. GOI-s proposals to delete
the bulk storage component and provide additional bag storage capacity have
been accepted by IDA. A one-year extension of the closing date has been
granted with the possibility of a further extension on the basis of progress
achieved during this fiscal year.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 23
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godcwns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector. I]mplementation of Credit 871 has
slowed down over the last six months due t:o shortages in cement supplies and
inadequate project coordination at the State level. Implementation of
Credit 1146 was initially slow due to poor preparation in most States in the
pre-project year. However, since December 1981 the project has gained some
momentum with about 1300 godowns and 40 cold storage units now sanctioned for
construction.  TJnder both projects, the s1lortage of cement presents a serious
bottleneck; and construction costs have risen considerably, which may
necessitate a reduction in the total number of storage units to be
constructed. NCDC and the State agencies concerned have resolved to do what
is required to speed up implementation of these projects.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development. Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat. Farmer response has been excellent. About
18,000 dairy cooperative societies (DCS) have been established, with over two
million members. Profitability of most DCSs is good and construction of
dairy and feed plants is proceeding well.
In Credit 482, construction of the mother dairy at Bangalore, the key
processing facility, was delayed by litigation. Construction by an
experienced civil works contractor has now begun. To allow for near
completion of this dairy, and for the Government of Karnataka to implement
improvements in their management support: of the dairy producers unions as
required under the project, the closing date has been extended by one year.
Credit 522 project has proceeded well and is excellently managed.
The processing facilities have been com?leted and are operational.  However,



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 23
the project authorities postponed formation of the DCSs until the processing
facilities and marketing studies were completed. Extension work is now
underway (550 DCSs are already established), but the credit closing date has
been extended by nine months to allow for creation of the total 1200 DCSs
planned, together with their complementary extension and training services.
Under Credit 824, the Operation Flood II Agreements, which allow for
the establishment of federations of DCSs, have now been signed by most of the
participating States. The major obstacle to the project at the moment is the
delay in providing loans to States due to their reluctance to issue the
guarantees required by the IDC for commitment of funds. This is currently
under review by the project authorities.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective. Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States. Although they are two to
three years behind schedule because of initial problems in coordination and
monitoring mainly at the national level, there has been significant progress
over the last year. Plans for the 24 seed development farms are complete and
production has commenced. Procurement is satisfactory, with six of ten ICB
tenders awarded and two more in process. Most of the seed processing plants
have been sanctioned for construction, and hence disbursements are expected
to improve with the inception of civil works. It is expected that all works
under both projects will be completed by June 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project helps to finance cashew planting and plantation
improvement programs in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and
Orissa. The planting and improvement programs have made very good progress
and the area covered is ahead of appraisal estimates. There is every
expectation that the project will fulfill its objective of significantly
increasing cashew production and improving the incomes of the farmers. In
Orissa there is already evidence of a significant improvement in the farmers-
welfare as a result of participation in the project.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to improve. The area to be
covered by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are
increasing. Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Haryana are under
contract and bid evaluation. The link between university research and
project activity is excellent. However, because of poor performance in the



ANNEX II
Page 21 of 23
early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project:; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Serious staff shortages in the Department of Sericulture have caused
inadequate research and extension work and prevented increases in the
production of bivoltine silk, one of the project's principal objectives.
This situation is expected to improve soon, as the Chief Secretary,
Government of Karnataka, is endeavoring to streamline the cumbersome
recruitment procedures to permit more rapid hiring of staff. All other
project components are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
There has been sufficient progress in civil works and the acquisition
of equipment to enable 11 of the 17 apple packing houses and all seven walnut
processing centers to become operational by October 1982. Therefore, it is
most urgent that the project implementing agency fill their positions of
financial and marketing directors in order to formulate appropriate financial
and marketing strategies for their first operating season with the new
facilities. The training program under the project is progressing well, but
research activities are behind schedule ,lue to delays in the appointment of
consultants.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A study completed in November 1979 established the feasibility of
developing a forest-based industry in Bastar district. However, following a
GOI review of the study, it was decided that conversion of the natural forest
to pine plantations, as proposed, would not be compatible with the
Government's social, economic, and envi:-onmental policies for the area.
Further project activities have therefore ceased. The project is expected to
close on schedule in December 1982.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 2 f 23
Cr. No. 1178  West Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1286  Jammu-Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project; US$33
million credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date:
Expected December 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
Under the Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat projects very impressive results
have been achieved in the tree plantation programs. However, both projects
suffer from serious understaffing, especially among forestry extension
workers, and inefficiences in the management and organization of the social
forestry programs.  A special review to be carried out jointly by GOI and                A
IDA in November 1982, is designed to address these problems.
Initial implementation of the West Bengal project, which became
effective in April 1982, has been satisfactory. Most senior staff are in
position, the monitoring and evaluation unit has been established, and
physical planting so far has exceeded appraisal report targets.
Initial project activities are underway on Credit 1286, signed on
September 7, 1982.
Ln. No. 1897  Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
There has been considerable progress in project implementation since
the last review in June 1981. In the upper catchment, cattle grazing has
decreased and afforestation increased, with a consequent improvement in the
vegetative cover to reduce erosion and floods--a main project objective.
Construction of the Dholbaha dam has started, and feasibility studies of
other watershed schemes to be financed by the project are well in hand.
Ln. No. 1394  Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the construction of harbor and shore facilities has been
delayed by a contractual dispute. This has now been resolved, and harbor
works should be finished by mid-1984. Village roads and water supply
components of the project are proceeding satisfactorily. In Andhra Pradesh,
the project harbor at Visakhapatnam was officially opened in February 1982;
harbor works at Kakinada and Nizampatnam are progressing satisfactorily
following the resolution of design problems.



ANNEX II
Page 23 of 23
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Project implementation is satisfactory. The Central and State
Project Units are functioning efficiently., Detailed designs for the first
two fish seed hatcheries in each of the five project States have been
completed. The pond improvement schemes are progressing rapidly, with large
numbers of loan applications having been submitted to the participating banks
for approval of financing.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; lJS$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child morbidity and mortality, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility in three districts in
Andhra Pradesh and in six districts in Uttar Pradesh. Implementation of the
project is proceeding well. Marked improvement has occurred in several
components especially construction, now that cement is being allocated to the
project on a priority basis. As a consequence, disbursements are
accelerating. The Director of the Population Centre in Uttar Pradesh has
been appointed and the training program is well underway.
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: AuguEt 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Following an impressive start in one test block where malnourishment
rates fell by 50% during the test period, the nutrition program is being
expanded to the other 32 blocks in Madurai District.  Progress in civil works
is now satisfactory despite early shortages of cement and the construction
work for the training facilities is to be completed this year.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SOUTH BASSEIN GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About three years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC).
(c) Date of- first presentation to the Bank and date of
first-mission to-consider the project
May 1981 and October 1981, respectively.
(d)  Date of.departure of appraisal mission
March 1982.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
December 1982.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
May 1983.
Section II:      Special Bank Implementation Actions
None



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOI will update as necessary the gas supply/demand
forecast for the South Bassein gas field and provide the
Bank an opportunity to comment on it (para 41).
(b) GOI will periodically review crude oil and gas prices
and set them at levels required to permit ONGC to meet its
operating expenses and earn an adequate return on its
investments (para 57).
(c)  ONGC will submit, annually, to GOI an economic and
financial evaluation of the project and of any subsequent
major developments which will inter alia indicate the
level of prices required by ONGC to earn a DCF return of
at least 15% on the project and other major developments
(para 57).






BRD 16184
20
A b-
30-.                                                                                                                                                                         Z
l.f
q
-40                     1 N D i A
SOUTH 9ASSEIN OFFSHORE GAS
DEVELOPMEN'r PROJECT
BOMBAY OFFSHORE AREA
04-d/., G,, P--,
0,      t,;"j A- -I'd C-)
PI 11         Id
1-1- Al-I llkd: l-,-,",
N- I I- rl f-
N-,, PI,ff-,
20
',Ah' !V.
-h ll-, I
-,4 IVNA
AIIITIUI
SUC R,
90MB,
HIGH
N\1
ico
IS
0F 3A 5SE1,V
I     Wwc7oRF5
t
N I   A                                                                                                                                                                                  Al l-,
i2v
-so,



