OFR JCIAL
LOAN NUMBER 2241 IN
DOCM EN TS
Project Agreement
(South Bassein Offshore Gas Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
OIL AND NATURAL GAS COMMISSION
Dated                               , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2241 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      /All--     3/          , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and OIL AND NATURAL GAS COMMISSION
(hereinafter called the Commission).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two
hundred twenty-two million three hundred thousand dollars
($222,300,000), on the terms and conditions st forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Commission agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and thr, Commission,.the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
the Commission on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Commission, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Commission shall carry out the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Commission in carrying
out Part I of the Project, the Commission shall, as and when
required, employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the joods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Commission undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Commission to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Commission
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Commission shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, .and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The    Commission  shall:   (i)  maintain   records   and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.


﻿-3-
(c) Upon the award by the Commission of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Commission and the Bank, the Commission shall prepare and furnish
to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the Commission and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) The Commission shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Commission relating to the Project
and any records and documents relevant to the performance of the
Commission's obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. The Commission shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Commission shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Susidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Commission shall, at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Commission shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by the Commission of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Commission shall take all necessary
measures to ensure that the construction, drilling and pipe-
line installation under the Project and the operation of the


﻿-4-
facilities included therein are carried out with due regard to
appropriate norms and adequate standards for the protection of
the workers and the environment.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Commission
Section 3.01. The Commission shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position and carry on its
operations, all in accordance with sound business, financial,
administrative and petroleum engineering practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.02. (a) The Commission shall at all times take all
steps necessary to maintain its corporate existence and the right
to carry on its operations, and shall take all action necessary
to acquire and to retain such land, interests in land and
properties, and to acquire, maintain and renew such powers,
privileges, licenses, franchises or other rights as may be
necessary or useful for the conduct of its business and the
execution of the Project.
(b) The Commission shall at all times operate and maintain
its projects, machinery, equipment and other property, and make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with
sound engineering practices.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Commis-
sion shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any
of its property or assets required for the efficient operation of
the Project, except in the normal course of business.
Section 3.03. The Commission shall take out and maintain
or cause its contractors to take out and maintain, with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance of the offshore facilities included in the Project
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Commission shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Commission shall:
(a) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than forty-five days after the end of the first
and the second half of each fiscal year, its unaudited semi-
annual financial statements for such period;
(b) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(c) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than twelve months after the end of each such
year: (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
(d) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Commission shall carry out and furnish
to the Borrower not later than December 31, in each year, a
report presenting economic and financial evaluation of the
Project and of any other major development undertaken after the
date of this Agreement and an analysis of the financial situation
and prospects of the Commission as a whole, for the purpose of
providing information to be considered by the Borrower in
carrying out review of the price of oil and gas produced by the
Commission. The said report shall indicate, inter-alia, the price
level required to permit the Commission, under conditions of
efficient operation, to achieve a net of taxes discounted cash
flow for the Project and for any such major development of not


﻿-6-
less than 15%. The said report shall also contain information on
the Commission's rate of return on invested capital, debt service
coverage and working capital position and the availability of
funds to the Commission to finance its proposed capital
investments.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, the term "major
development" means the development of an oil or gas field having
proven recoverable reserve of a 100 million barrels of oil or
more, or of 15 billion cubic meters of gas or more.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the- date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the Commission thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Commission thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-7-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Commission:
The Secretary
Oil and Natural Gas Commission
Tel Bhavan
Dehra Dun, U.P.
India
Cable Address:                        Telex:
COMONG                              206 or
Dehra Dun                           207
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Commission, may be taken or executed
by its Chairman or such other person or persons as the Commission
shall designate in writing, and the Commission shall furnish to
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿-8-
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/I
/ -Regional Vice President
South Asia
OIL AND NATURAL GAS COMMISSION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Commission shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Commission shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 10 -
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Commission shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Commission shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Commission and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting a major
extension of the stipulated time for performance of such con-
tract, or issuing any change order under such contract (except in
cases of extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the
contract by more than 15% of the original price, the Commission
shall inform the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver,
extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if


﻿- 11 -
it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Commis-
sion and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 3/ d    day of,Af  L 198 3
FOR SECRETARY


