The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12223-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MARCH 1, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12223 PAK
Type: SAR
South Asia Region
Country Department III
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipIents only in the performance of
their officiiml duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January, 1994)
Rupee 1.00    =   US$0.03
US$1.00       =   Rs 30.5
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Unit System
Metric Unit                           British/US Equivalent
1 centimeter (cm)          =          0.39 inch
1 meter (m)                           39.37 inch
1 kilometer (kn)           =          0.62 mile
I hectare (ha)                        2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (kI2)   =          0.386 square mile
1 cubic meter (i3)         =          35.31 cubic feet
I liter (O)                           0.264 gallon (USA)
I kilogram (kg)                       2.205 pounds
1 metic ton (m ton)        -          2,205 pounds



FOR OMCML USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AKRSP        -     Aga Khan Rural Support Program
AZRI         -     Arid Zone Research Institute
BEPA         -     Balochistan Enviromental Protection Agency
BFD          -     Balochistan Forest Departnent
BPS          -     Basic Pay Scale
BUPD         -     Balochistan Urban Planning and Development Deparutent
CDWP         -     Central Development Working Party (of E(NEC)
CIDA         -     Canadian International Development Agency
ECNEC        -     Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
EIA          -     Environmental Impact Assessment
EPA          -     Environmental Protection Agency
EPRC         -     Environmental Protection and Resource Conservation Project
ERR          -     Economic Internal Rate of Retumr
ES           -     Environmental Section within Planning and Development Department
EUAD         -     Environment and Urban Affairs Division (Ministry of Housing & Works)
FY           -     Fiscal Year
GOBal        -     Government of Balochistan
GOP          -     Government of Pakistan
HCNP         -     Hzargaji-Chiltan National Park
IDA          -     International Development Association
IT           -     Irano-Turanian (Region)
IUCN         -     International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Na&ural Resources
MINFAC       -     Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives
MOF          -     (Federal) Ministy of Finance
NCS          -     National Conservation Strategy
NGO          -     Non-Governmental Organizaon
NWFP         -     North-West Frontier Province
PCI          -     Project's Planning Commission Form I
P&D          -     Provincial Planning and Development Department
PEPA         -     Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency
PFI          -     Pakistan Forest Institute
PMP          -     Park Management Plan
RWRP         -     Rangeland/Watershed Rehabflitation Pilot Program
SDS          -     Sand Dime Stabilization Subproject
SOE          -     Statement of Expenditure
SS           -     Saharo-Sindian (Region)
The Council  -     Pakistan Enviromnental Protection Council
The Ordinance -    Pakistan Enviromnental Protection Ordinance 1983
UNDP         -     United Nations Development Program
UOK          -     University of Karachi
WAPDA        -     Water and Power Development Authority
WWF          -     World Wide Fund for Nature
ZJFC         -     Ziarat Juniper Forest Conservation Pilot Program
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosei without World Bank authorization.



PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATUR;AL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ..................  iii
I.     BALOCHISTAN AND SECTOR BACKGROUND ... .............. 1
A. Introduction .1
B.    The Environment and Natural Resources .1
C.  Issues, Objectives and Strategies.                                    3
D.    Bank Group and Other Support for the Enviromnent
and Lessons Learned.                                              6
E.  Rationale for Bank Group Involvement.                                 9
II.  BALOCHISTAN'S LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES .10
A.  Climate, Land and Agriculture.                                       10
B.  Population and Poverty .12
C. Laws and Institutions .13
D. Property Rights .15
E.    Natural Habitats and National Parks .16
F.    Watershed and Rangeland Rehabilitation .17
M .   THE      P       ......................................... o18
A. Project Objectives.                                                   18
B. Summary Description.18
C. Project Details.19
D.  Cost Estimates and Financing .28
E. Procurement.30
F. Disbursements.33
G.    Accounts and Audit  .................................. 34
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ........................ 34
A.    Project Management .................................. 34
B.    Community Involvement, Development and Contribution  ....    ....... 36
C.    Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision ...................... 38
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal (October/November 1992) and appraisal (April 1993)
missions. Appraisal mission members included Messrs. Michael Saddington (Task Manager), Abdul
Qaiyum Sheikh and Ms. Meena Munshi (IDA). The peer reviewers are Messrs. Robert Crooks
(ASTEN), and Jock Anderson (AGRAP). The Country Director is Mr. Paul Isenman (SA3DR), while
the Division Chief is Mr. Ridwan Ali (SA3AG). Ms. Geraldine Burnett typed and produced the report.



(ii)
V.    BENEFITS, JUSTIFCATION AND RISKS  .. ..................... .... 38
A.    Benefits and Justification  ......................... 38
B.    Environmental Effects ..........                                        41
C. Risks .42
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION   .                            .43
ANNEXES
1.    Financial Data
Table 1: Project Cost Estimates
Table 2: Estimated Annual Project Expenditures by Component
Table 3: Detailed Project Component Cost Estimates
Table 4: Estimated Schedule of Credit Disbursements
Table 5: Proposed Allocation of Credit Funds
2.    Sand Dune Stabilization on the Mekran Coast
3.    Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park Development
4.    Rangeland and Watershed Rehabilitation in Northern Balochistan
5.    Ziarat Juniper Forest Conservation
6.    Foreign and Local Training, Foreign and Local Technical Assistance
7.    Program of Early Events
8.    Procurement hnplementation Schedule
9.    Supervision Plan
10.   Economic Internal Rate of Return
11.   Related Documents and Data Available in Project Files
CHARTS
1.    Proposed P&D Environmental Section Organization
2.    Proposed BEPA Organization
MAP
1.    IBRD 24917 - Project Areas



(iii)
PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project S_nnary
Borrower:          Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:     Balochistan Planning and Development Department, Environmental Protection
Agency and Forest Department
Amount:            Credit: SDR 10.7 million (US$14.7 million equivalent)
Terms:             Credit: Standard, with 35 years maturity
Project Desciption:  The project is the first phase in an expected long-term program of World Bank
Group support to improve Balochistan's protection of its environment and
management of its natural resources. The project would strengthen Balochistan's
institutions involved with environmental protection and natural resource use so
they are better able to undertake their responsibilities; strengthen local
communities and involve them in the design and implementation of natural
resource development and management; improve provincial natural resource use
policies so that natural resources are used in an efficient and sustainable manner;
publicize environmentl issues; and implement high priority operations and pilot
programs to rehabilitate and develop damaged natural resources. The pilot
programs are designed according to the objectives and strategies of Pakistan's
National Conservation Strategy. They will allow policy formulators to monitor
the effects of current policies and, if necessary, develop or change them over
time. The project would also provide training to upgrade staff's skills, technical
assistance to help with project implementation, and funds to prepare future
natural resource management projects.
Benefits:          Project benefits would include those resulting from the strengthening of
environmental protection and natural resource management institutions, and those
resulting from development of the natural resource rehabilitation subprojects.
The first group of benefits would include an enhanced capability within
Balochistan to plan and implement environmentally sound and economically
viable natural resource development, and improved public health through the
implementation of policies regulating standards of air, water and soil pollution.
The second group would include: (a) protection of infrastructure,



(iv)
houses and fishing industry facilities from sand damage which would stabilize the
fishing industry on Pakistan's Mekran coast; (b) improved wildlife habitat, bio-
diversity conservation and recreational and tourist facilities at Hazarganji-Chiltan
National Park; (c) improved rangeland management and conservation resulting
in higher livestock production and farmer incomes from rangeland/watershed
rehabilitation works; and (d) preservation of a rare forest environment, and
increased fuelwood and fodder production resulting in higher community incomes
at Ziarat.
Risks:               Possible project risks include: (a) environmental institutions may be delayed in
recruiting suitably qualified staff; (b) the harsh climatic conditions on the Mekran
coast may slow tree planting and adversely impact on the subproject's internal
economic rate of retum, while the use of a single tree specie for sand dune
fixation Licreases the risk of plantation failure due to disease; (c) the tribespeople
camped near the eastern boundary of the Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park may
continue to illegally collect firewood and graze their animals in the park; (d) the
cost of establishing Atriplex canescens in rangelands may be too high for it to be
economically attractive to farmers; and (e) local communities near Ziarat may not
accept the zoning of the juniper forest areas, and the proposed community
fuelwood plantations may be technically infeasible.  While these adverse
possibilities could occur, government and Bank Group staff have designed the
project to keep the probability of occurrence to an acceptable level. These design
features include: (a) including considerable local and foreign training to upgrade
local staff's capabilities; (b) a project launch workshop which will emphasize
early nursery establishment and a research program to widen the tree specie base
for sand dune stabilization; (c) while the tribespeople's present camp site is
temporary and the government has increased staff to regulate access into the
park, the project would provide a local sociologist to interface between the Forest
Departnent and the tribespeople, and if necessary, the proposed park
management plan would contain components to address this issue; (d) atriplex
planting operations would be varied to help find a least cost approach and project
staff would closely monitor all aspects of this pilot operation so they can
determine its economic, social and technical feasibility; and (e) to ensure
community agreement to the proposed forest zoning, project staff will actively
and meaningfully involve them in the design and implementation of the operation.
Staff will locate the community fuelwood plantations at the most favorable sites
regarding climate and soils, and will plant only fast growing woody shrubs.
Poverty Category:   Not applicable



(v)
Estimated Costs                              Local        Foreign      Total
-(US$ moio)
Institutional Development                     1.2          2.1          3.3
Sand Dune Stabilization                       5.2          1.3          6.5
National Park Development                     0.6          0.6          1.2
Rangeland Rehabilitation                      0.4          0.1          0.5
Juniper Forest Conservation                   2.8          0.8          3.6
Total Baseline Costs                   10.2          4.9         15.1
Physical Contingencies                        1.3          0.3          1.6
Price Contingencies                           0.9          0.2          1.1
Total Project Costs                    12.4          5.4         17.81'
Financing  Plan                             Local        Foreign      TOa
=---UsS$ millon)-
GOBal                                         2.5           -           2.5
Community Households                          0.6           -           0.6
IDA                                           9.3          5.4         14.7
Total                                  12.4          5.4         17.8
Includes US$0.9 million taxes and duties.



(vi)
Estlmaed Credit          IDA          Fised              Year
Disuemewets
94    9      96     97    9       99     00
-(S$  on
Annual              0    1.0   1.6   3.3    3.8    3.5    1.5
Cumulative          0    1.0   2.6    S.9    9.7   13.2   14.7



PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. BALOCHISTAN AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1             The Provincial Government of Balochistan (GOBal) through the Government of
Palistan (GOP) has requested International Development Association (IDA) assistance to strengthen its
environrental protection institutions, and to protect and conserve its natural resources. This project
focuses mainly on the conservation and protection of environmental and ecological resources in the rural
and agricultural sectors. While urbanization and industrial pollution are important, other measures and
projects are addressing them (para 1.26 and 1.27). This is the second IDA-assisted project directlv aimed
at protecting and conserving Pakistan's environment and naturl resources. The first, the Environmental
Protection and Resource Conservation Project (Credit 2383-PAK) (EPRC), will strengthen environmental
protection institutions and undertake several site-specific pilot programs to rehabilitate and conserve
watersheds, rangelands, forests and wildlife refuges. These activities are at the federal level, and in
Punjab, Sindh and North-West Frontier (NWFP) Provinces, and in Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK).
This project would complement the first project, and cover activities in Balochistan, the fourth and last
province. It would establish an Environmental Section (ES) within the province's Planning and
Development Department (P&D), initiate strengthening of Balochistan's Environmental Protection Agency
(BEPA) and Forest Department (BFD), strengthen local communities and involve them in the design and
implementation of natural resource development, improve provincial natural resource use polhics,
publicize environmental issues, and implement operations and pilot programs to rehabilitate and develop
damaged natural resources.
1.2             Siilar to the first project, GOBal prepared the project in collaboration with the Bank
Group and with financial support from the Royal Norwegian Government. This staff appraisal report is
based on the preparation report (Pakistan Environmental Protection and Resource Conservation Project
Preparation Report, January 28, 1991) and the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions which
visited Balochistan during October 1992 and April 1993 respectively.
B. The Enviromnmet and Natural Resources
Physical Setting
1.3             Balochistan is the largest of Pakistan's four provinces (about 350,000 sq km or 44%
of the country's area), but has the smallest population (about 7 million or 5.8%). It lies north of the
tropics, between the latitudes of 240 and 320, and between the longitudes of 60° to 70° east.
Topographically Balochistan is the eastern extension of the Iranian plateau, subdivided by moderately high
(1,000-2,000 m) to high (2,000-2,500 m) mountain ranges of limited accessibility. The highest mountain,
Loe Sar, reaches 3,500 m. Generally, Balochistan's relief is 52% high and low mountains, -22% valley
fans (usually gravelly) and terraces, and 26% plains.



- 2 -
1.4              Balochistan, wtlh its mountainous highlands, arid rangelands and desert lowlands, is
the western boundary to Pakistan's heartland, the Indus valley, where Pakistan's population, agriculture
and industry are concentrated. The Indus valley provides the markets for Balochistan's main production
(coal, gas, mutton, hides, fruits and vegetables), and supplies Baeochistan's needs for food, grain (wheat
and rice) and manufactured goods.
1.5              Balochistan is fundamentally an extremely dry area with a fragile environment that
is sensitive to mis-use. Situated in the world's desert belt, its climatic conditions range from dry to
hyper-arid. Annual precipitation varies from 100 mm in the northwest to 400 mm in the northeast fringe
adjoining Punjab province. Rainfall is erratic and three to fve years in ten are poor rainfall years. It
generally falls in two seasons, in the summer from June to September and in the winter from October
to May. Temperatures vary widely from cool-temperate highland in the north to tropical lowland in the
south. Maximum sununer temzweratures in June and July may range from 380C in Quetta to nearly 50°C
in Sibi, while minimum temperatures from December to February may range from chilling to sub-zero.
Natural Resources
1.6              Balochistan's economy relies heavily on the productivity of its natural resources. The
agricultural sector, for example, the largest user of natural resources, provides about 60% of provincial
gross domestic product, and emnploys some 65'% of the labor force. However, rapid human and livestock
population growth and increased intensity of land use are causing widesp.ead and contin ing degradation
of resources throughout the province and leading to increasing desertification. Excessive tree cutting and
extraction of small brush from watersheds is denuding already sparse hillsides and causing erosion, flash-
flooding, and reduced water infiltration into aquifers. Overgrazing and uprooting of small shrubs is
further degrading already badly inpaired natural rangeland pastures, decreasing water infiltration, and
reducing wildlife habitat. Over-pumping of groundwater in the uplands is seriously depleting aquifers
and dropping water tables. Sand dune movement on the coastline is damaging roads, buildings and sea
and airport facilities. Finally, over-watering and poor drainage on the irrigated plains is causing
waterlogging and salinity, while hunting and the destruction of natural habitat are seriously depleting
Balochistan's wildlife.
1.7              Balochistan is poor in natural resources, with water being the limiting factor in
development. Although the land area is vast, much of it is desert and low grade rangeland due to its arid
climate and overgrazing. Except in certain areas, for example, piedmont and river plains, soils are
mostly thin and calcareous. The vegetation is generally sparse, and reflects the aridity of the climate.
It shows two distinct plant geographical regions, the Irano-Turanian (IT) region and the Sakaro-Sindian
(SS). IT region includes the continental arid "steppes" with a winter rainfall, covering about 40% of the
province and comprising the mid- to high-altitudinal belts and high mountain slopes. The mid-altitudinal
belt is characterized by Artemisia and Astragalus dwarf shrubs, Pistacia trees, Prnuws eburuea shrub and
annual grasses such as Bromus and Aegilops. Conifers, junipers and pines predominate on the high
mountain slopes. SS region includes Balochistan's low-altitudinal belt and lowland deserts. These areas
have a summer rainfall, and are characterized by various acacias, palms and perennial grasses such as
Panicum and Pennisetum.
1.8              Balochistan has., large variety of wildlife, although the number of animals is often
rather low. They are hunted for both sport and food. Many animal species are now extinct, endangered
or threatened. Some of the more interesting wildlife are wiid goats (Persian Goat, Markhor) and sheep



- 3 -
(Balochistan Urial), the Balochistan Black Bear, gazelles (Goitred and Chinkara), and the Houbara
Bustard.
1.9              Other major resources of Balochistan include the fishing grouuds along the Mekran
coast, natural gas at Sui, coal, marble, stone and alabaster. Natural gas is a relatively newly discovered
resource which is an important revenue source for the province.
C. Issues, Objectives and Strategies
Issues
1.10             In Balochistan, as throughout Pakistan, policy-makers and farmers have focussed
almost exclusively on questions related to agricultural, livestock and forestry production, and have given
inadequate attention to developing sustainable natural resource use systems. This, coupled with a rapidly
increasing population and considerable poverty, has led to the indiscriminate deforestation of uplands and
watersheds, over-grazing of rangelands, and depletion of aquifers. Additionally, market and policy
failure, weak environmental protection institutions, inadequate legislation and enforcement, and a low
level of public awareness are all contributing to natural resource mis-management in Balochistan.
1.11             Poverty. Economic hardship or poverty is linked to environmental degradation, that
is, the poor tend to trade-off long-term sustainable resource use for short-term consumption of capital.
As many in Balochistan's rural communities are resource poor, are badly educated and trained, and thus
have few options for other income earning opportunities, their time horizons, with regard to the
sustainable use of land and other natural resources, is short. Thus they may crop marginal land and
overgraze natural pastures even though the land and rangeland may be severely degraded and eventually
be unable to support further cropping or grazing.
1.12             Market and Policy Failure. Market and policy failures result in natural resources
not being costed at their true value, thus leading to their inefficient allocation and use, and their
subsequent degradation. This is certainly true in Balochistan where several conditions for the efficiertt
functioning of markets are missing, and many natural resource services function outside the market place.
There is often a wide divergence between the private and social costs of using natural resources. When
farmers crop marginal land and over-graze natural pastures, besides falling productivity of the site, it may
also cause externalities or costs downstream or over time. For example, increased water run-off from
the cropped land or over-grazed pasture will cause erosion and increased silting of downstream reservoirs,
as well as increased flooding and agricultural and urban damage. The site itself may so badly deteriorate
that over time it becomes no longer useable. Again, the market does not put a value on the
environmental services of woodlands and natural pastures, such as providing natural habitats for fauna
and flora, regulating water flow from a watershed, or increasing water infiltration into aquifers.
Decisions to cut trees or over-graze rangeland are taken without considering the value of these important
enviromnental services.
1.13             Increasing human and livestock populations, and exposure to outside influences, are
breaking down traditional or tribal management of rangeland. In the past tribal groups, who own
practically all rangeland in Balochistan, closed most of their rangeland to livestock during the rainy
season to allow pastures to regenerate. Increasing livestock numbers, and in some areas a lessening of
tribal authority, are leading to rangeland being grazed throughout the year with the subsequential



degradation of the pastures (see paras 2.12, 2.24 and 2.25). While tribal leaders may realize rangelands
are overstocked, within the traditional system of authority and management, they appear unable to cope
with the problem.
1.14             Balochistan's policies concerning local commnity access to protected forests for
firewood collection, timber and grazing are unsustainable. Increasing human and livestock populations
are placing such large pressures on State and Protected Forests that they are being severely degraded, and
the important juniper woods near Ziarat may well completely disappear over the next several decades (see
paras 2.5 and 2.6). As well, Balochistan has no effective groundwater use policy, either with regard to
total annual pumping from aquifers (number of tubewells) or ensuring or encouraging recharging of
aquifers (see paras 2.27 to 2.30).
1.15            Several GOP and Balochistan policies tend to encourage over pumping of groundwater
rather than the efficient sustainable use of groundwater. Federal electricity authorities charge a flat rate
per horsepower per year for an electrically powered tubewell, and thus farmers' energy costs are not
closely related to the amount of water which they pump annually. Additionally, in Balochistan tribal
society the collection of power charges is poor, while electricity stealing is common. Four to five GOBal
agencies drill tubewells for individuals. The Balochistan Irrigation Department which drills the majority
of these tubewells, subsidizes the cost of drilling by about 40% of the total cost, that is, its drilling
charges are about Rs 300,000 as compared to a private firm's Rs 500,000 for a similar tubewell. Finally,
Quetta residents pay only around 25% of the cost of supplymg water (which comes from the local
aquifers) to their homes. Both water supply authorities and crop irrigators are competing for the scarce
groundwater.
1.16             Balochistan's development agencies have not involved local communities in natural
resource development and management. Most development is from "top down", with little local
community involvement in planning. The Balochistan Forest Department (BFD), for example, must take
account of local needs, priorities and capabilities when planning and implementing forest and rangeland
development and conservation. BFD must work with the local communities to ensure their participation
and involvement in natural resource management.
1.17             Weak Euvfnental Instituions. Until recently, Pakistan's and Balochistan's
environmental institutions have been weak, under-staffed and inadequately financed, or did not exist.
EPRC, plus assistance from Canada's International Development Agency (CIDA), is currently
strengthening the Environment and Urban Affairs Division (EUAD), GOP, the main federal agency
dealing with the environment. It is also assisting the Pakistan Environmental Protection Council (the
Council) and the Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency (PEPA), also at the federal level, to become
operational. Balochistan established its own fledgling environmental protection agency (BEPA) in early
1992, however, while it has most of its staff in place, it needs permanent accommodation, equipment,
vehicles, training and operating funds, and has yet to become effective. BFD, one of the main line
agencies responsible for natural resource development, has little expertise in farmer extension, or in
working with local community groups in developing and managing forest and rangeland areas.
1.18            Inadequate Legsion. Pakistan (including Balochistan), has a multiplicity of laws
and regulations relating to all aspects of natural resource management. Most of these date back several
decades or more, and were introduced for purposes other than environmental management as it is now
understood. In 1983 GOP passed major environmental protection legislation, the Environmental



- 5 -
Protection Ordinance (the Ordinance). Till now GOP, however, has been slow to implement the
Ordinance because: (a) in the past it has not been committed to enforcing it; (b) policy-makers and the
public have little awareness of environmental problems; and (c) the necessary trained staff are not
available. Additionally, the 1983 Ordinance is incomplete, and cannot be enforced until its definitions
and operating regulations are wrinen and gazetted. EUAD, with assistance from EPRC, is currently
rectifying these problems (paras 2.16 and 2.17).
1.19            Litfle Public Awareness and Particpation. Policy-makers, business leaders and
the general public have had little awareness of the dangers to economic development resulting from
natural resource degradation. Until quite recently Pakistan development economists believed there was
no alternative to allowing some environmental degradation to occur as part of the process of raising living
standards at the margin. This position has now begun to change somewhat, as the natural resource
degradation taking place in some instances threatens growth itself, and its costs in terms of human health
and the irretrievable loss of economic opportunity is extremely high. While some environmental
consciousness is beginning to emerge in Balochistan, the low level of literacy (8% in rural areas), and
extreme poverty mitigate against farmers adopting rational resource use and careful husbandry. Much
needs to be done to raise environmental consciousness in Balochistan.
Objectives
1.20            As for GOP, Balochistan's priority multi-sectoral environmental and natural resource
management objectives are to: (a) conserve natural resources, including maintaining essential ecological
processes, preserving biodiversity and where possible restoring degraded natural resources; (b) ensure
the sustainable use of natural resources, including extracting exhaustible resources at rates that do not
exceed the creation of substitute capital resources, and ensuring balanced and diversified development that
maintains, if it does not increase, the sum of options available to future generations; and (c) improve
efficiency in the use of resources, including raising natural resource yields towards their sustainable
potential, better managing community and infrastructure resources, and giving priority to conserving and
improving the best of fragile ecosystems with large downstream effects.
Strategies
1.21            GOBal's natural resource management strategies are similar to GOP's, and are
annunciated in the National Conservation Strategy (NCS). NCS p.oposes three broad strategies to
promote effective natural resource management, that is, achieving greater community partnership in
development and natural resource management, merging environmental and economic concerns in
decision making, and focussing on durable improvements in the quality of life.
1.22            NCS strategies are further detailed in the following measures: (a) create greater public
awareness of the need for natural resource conservation; (b) promote greater participation by local
communities and non-govermnental organizations (NGOs) in natural resource management; (c) improve
information flows between federal, provincial and local government bodies, community organizations and
NGOs; (d) enable grassroot organizations to identify, design and imnplement projects; (e) ensure that
economic decision makers and planners are held responsible for the environmental impact of development
programs; (f) establish environmental monitoring systems; (g) balance natural resources and population
mmbers; (h) improve the quality of human resources through better education, nutrition and personal
hygiene; (i) control and prevent pollution; and (j) give preference to biological solutions. NCS proposes



-6 -
to implement these strategies through the strengthening of technical, regulatory and participatory
institutions concerned with environmental protection; initiating broad-based mass awareness programs;
developing and improving enviromnental legislation and its enforcement; creating economic incentives
and disincentives; training; structuring environmental concerns into Pakistan's education system;
reorienting and improving research and technology development; initiating environmental impact
assessment (EIA) procedures for public and private investment planning, design aad implementation;
introducing environmental considerations into development planning, and implementing priority projects
which enhance human welfare, increase economic efficiency, and conserve natural resources.
Bank and Other Donor Strategies
1.23            The Bank and other donors generally support GOBal's natural resource management
objectives and strategies as annunciated in NCS. These strategies are in line with Bank environmental
policy, and were evolved following extensive discussions with individuals, communities, NGOs, and
governmental and private institutions. The Bank, along with GOBal, stress the importance of capital
accumulation and income growth to reduce poverty and encourage sustainable natural resource use.
Capital accumulation must encompass all its forms, particularly human, institutional and cultural as well
as natural, physical and financial. To encourage capital accumulation and income growth: (a)
development agencies nmst involve local communities in designing and implementing natural resource
development so as to improve natural resource management and internalize externalities resulting from
natural resource use; (b) communities must develop and strengthen their infonmal and formal
organizations and skills; (c) communities must adopt improved, more remunitative and sustainable uses
of natural resources (better farming practices); (d) governments must strengthen development agencies
so they can interact with local communities, appropriately maintain capital investments in roads,
communications and other physical investments, supply services such as agricultural research and
extension, and properly manage natural resources for which they are responsible; and (e) policies must
be changed to minimize distortions in nantral resource values and costs caused by market and policy
failures. In introducing improved farming practices to communities, the use of adaptive research,
extension and pilot programs are important.
D. Bank Group and Other Support for the Environment and Lessons Leamed
Donor Support
1.24            Many other bilateral and multilateral international agencies and donors are supporting
environmental protection and resource conservation work in Pakistan and Balochistan. The more active
and viable groups include: (a) CIDA, which in association with the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) and United Nations Development Program
(UNDP), assisted to prepare NCS (para 1.21), and now is assisting to finance several aspects of NCS
implementation including institutional strengthening (a NCS unit within EUAD, an Environmental Section
within the federal Planning and Development Division) and an NCS donor conference held in January
1993 to solicit assistance for NCS implementation; (b) Asian Development Bank which financed studies
to suggest methods of strengthening primary environmental institutions, that is, EUAD, PEPA and
provincial EPAs; (c) UNDP/Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) which is
currently assisting BFD initiate three small projects in Balochistan concerning natural resource use, that
is, the Integrated Range-Livestock Development, Watershed Planning and Management, and Feed
Resources Development projects. Under these projects BFD would attempt to improve the management



- 7 -
of grazing lands, plan the rehabilitation of watersheds, and disseminate to farmers technology concerning
fodder production and storage (for example, hay and silage making). Under the projects BFD would also
establish a Rangelands Project Coordination Unit to work on rangeland improvement projects, an
Ecological Monitoring Unit, including a geographical information system (GIS), to monitor the condition
of Balochistan's rangelands, and a Watershed Planning and Management Unit to work on watershed
improvement and development. Each of these units would be small, and have yet to be established. This
project will complement UNDP/FAO's work and be implemented in coordination with them; (d) the
Government of Switzerland which is assisting to finance the Kalam Development Project in the Swat
Valley, NWFP, a multi-disciplinary watershed rehabilitation project with considerable community
involvement; (e) the Royal Netherlands Government which is assisting to finance the Malakand Social
Forestry Project, a similar type project in the lower Swat Valley, NWFP; and (f) the Royal Norwegian
Government, which among other things, has given technical assistance to GOP and Pakistan universities
on professional training in environmental management.
1.25            NGOs. NGOs are gradually increasing their role in the management of natural
resources in Pakistan. Although their full potential is still far from realized, there are important NGO
operations where NGOs are involving local communities in project design and implementation such as
the Orangi Urban Project in Karachi (Orangi Pilot Project) and the Aga Khan Rural Support Program in
Gilgit (AKRSP). IUCN has been involved in several small, pilot natural resource conservation projects,
and assisted in preparing NCS. It is currently assisting in NCS implementation, and is helping the
European Economic Community (EEC) implement the two EPRC subprojects which EEC is financing.
The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) has reviewed government wildlife conservation efforts, and
has proposed wildlife management strategies in Balochistan and other areas of Pakistan. Founded in
1991, the Balochistan Rural Support Program, operating in some 200 villages, helps organize formal and
imformal groups to implement community development schemes.
Bak Group Support
1.26            The Bank Group has already supported projects in several sectors with components
to improve the environment or to rehabilitate and develop natural resources. In the urban sector these
projects have provided for strengthening local service institutions, and upgrading and expanding the
collecting, treating and disposal of sewerage and solid waste, supply of potable water, and preserving of
historic buildings. The projects include the Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage (Cr.
630-PAK), Lahore Urban Development Program (Cr. 1348-PAK), Karachi Special Development Program
(Cr. 1652-PAK), Punjab Urban Development (Cr. 1895-PAK), Karachi Water Supply and Sanitation II
(Cr. 1987-PAK), and Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (Cr. 2228-PAK). While implementation has
been slow, the projects have been successful, particularly the restoration and rehabilitation work in
Lahore's old walled city. The main implementation problems faced include weak implementing agency
management, the enormity of work entailed in overall sewerage disposal, and in the Karachi area, the
outgrowing of agencies' ability to supply water for sewerage purposes.
1.27            In the energy sector Bank Group projects have focussed on strengthening energy
production and distribution institutions; rationalizing local energy prices, and the price structure for
different consumers, with regard to international energy prices; introducing energy conservation
technology; introducing emission standards for the release of pollutants into Pakistan's air and water; and
requiring EIA procedures to be undertaken before investing in energy producing activities. The Second
Energy Sector Loan (Ln. 3107-PAK) is the main project with environmental protection components.



- 8 -
While the project has had some success strengthening institutions, more must be done to raise energy
prices and rationalize the price structure for the various consumer groups. To date emission standards
and EIA procedures have yet to be introduced.
1.28            In agriculture Bank Group projects have mainly been directed at correcting the two
main areas of natural or agro-ecological resource degradation, that is, the large and increasing area of
waterlogging and soil salinity resulting from ifrigating on the plains with inadequate drainage, and the
deforestation and depasturing of watersheds and rangelands with its resulting increased water run-off and
soil erosion. Projects to drain waterlogged and saline areas include Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated
Farming Development (Cr. 648-PAK), SCARP VI (Cr. 754-PAK), SCARP Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK),
Drainage IV (Cr. 1375-PAK), Left Bank Outfall Drain (Cr. 1532-PAK), SCARP Transition I (Cr. 1693-
PAK), Private Tubewells Development (Cr. 2004-PAK), Second SCARP Transition (Cr. 2257-PAK), and
the Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia Irrigation and Drainage (Cr. 2410-PAK), while those to rehabilitate and
develop watersheds and rangelands include Hill Fanming Technical Development (Cr. 751-PAK),
Integrated Hill Panning Development (Cr. 1461-PAK) (IHFD), EPRC and the Northern Resource
Management (Cr. 2512-PAK). The Bank has also been the executing agency for a series of projects to
repair environmental and natural resource damage done by Afghan refugees, that is, the Income
Generating Project for Refugee Areas I, II and III (IGPRA I, II and III). With regard to waterlogging
and salinity, a more comprehensive approach is required, and following the accord on the allocation of
Indus basin waters, this should now be possible. Future solutions to waterlogging and salinity must be
planned on a basin-wide basis, and besides using surface and subsurface drainage to remove saline
effluent and dispose of it in an ecologically sound manner, the deposition of salt in the topsoil and the
intrusion of saline groundwater into sweet groundwater reservoirs must be reduced and controlled by the
cornurrent, appropriate management of ground and surface water supplies. To meet these planning
objectives, Bank staff are currently assisting GOP to undertake a sectoral environmental assessment, plus
associated studies, of Pakistan's irrigation and drainage programs.
L_sfons Learned
1.29            IHFD was quite successful in rehabilitating watersheds because the main technical
and socio-economic problems were studied and site-specific approaches to solving them developed under
a pilot project (Hill Farming Technical Development). As well, the implementing agencies involved the
local communities to an extent in project preparation and design, and obtained their agreement before
implementing interventions. However, these projects did not do enough to develop local organizations
and skills, encourage local investment, strengthen agencies so they could better work with local
communities, or develop better natural resource management policies-'. The design of the proposed
project takes into account these design strengths and weaknesses, plus lessons learned from implementing
naural resource management projects elsewhere in the world. Lessons learned include the need to
develop or change policies to reduce distortions in natural resource values and costs caused by market
and policy failure; farmers can usually raise nurseries and plant trees at considerably less cost than forest
departments; an integrated use of tree plantings is usually more profitable than planting for firewood
alone; because of diversity between sites, adaptive research and pilot programs are most important to
solve socio-technical problems; and adequate data bases concerning pollution or natural resource
1"         Project  Completion  Report,   Pakistan  Integrated  Hill   Farming
Development Project, January 6, 1993.



- 9 -
degradation are most important for project planning. Consequently the project is designed to: (a)
strengthen BEPA and BFD; (b) involve local communities in project design and implementation, plus
strengthen their organizations and skills; (c) adopt a multi-enterprise approach to development; (d)
develop appropriate natural resources use policies; (e) develop and introduce improved, sustainable
farming practices; and (f) measure and monitor natural resource degradation.
1.30            Future Directon. The Bank, CIDA and the Swedish International Development
Agency have assisted GOP and the provinces develop an environmental action plan (completed August
1993). In doing this, GOP and the provinces determined and prioritized by sector the actions and
investments necessary to implement NCS. Nevertheless, as already emphasized, before GOP and the
provinces commence any large-scale investment program to improve environmental protection and
resource management, it is essential they strengthen their institutions dealing with the environment and
natural resource management; develop the necessary policies, programs and legislation; undertake mass
educational programs to heighten public awareness of environmental problems; and commence staff
training programs. EPRC, which was signed in June 1992, initiates actions in these areas at the federal
level and in Punjab, Sindh, NWFP and AJK. This project will complement EPRC, and would initiate
similar actions in the remaining province, Balochistan. By doing this, the project will be a key
component in GOP, Balochistan and the Banks' programs to strengthen Pakistan's overall environmental
protection and natural resource management. Additionally through its operations and pilot programs to
manage, restore and develop natural resources, it tackles Balochistan's major natural resource problem
of increasing desertification resulting from watershed, rangeland and aquifer degradation, and would
provide valuable site specific technical and socio-economic information on how to resolve major issues
in this work, and to develop appropriate policies concerning natural resource use.
E. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
1.31            Similar to EPRC, this project forms an integral part of GOP and GOBals'
environmental protection and natural resource management strategies which IDA supports. It focusses
mainly on initiating the strengthening of Balochistan's environmental protection institutions, developing
policies and mass awareness programs, strengthening local organizations and skills, and implementing
pilot programs for rehabilitating and improving degraded forests, watersheds, rangelands and wildlife
habitat and halting the movement of sand dunes. Through both the macro-economic dialogue at the
central level and the more technically oriented investments at the project level, IDA is well placed to
assist GOP and the provincial governments tackle the range of policy, institutional and technical issues
that relate to environment and natural resource management projects. The development of an effective
and coherent national approach, supported by site-specific implementation capacity, will be a long-term
umdertaking, which is suitable for IDA support. IDA can also make a major contribution to encouraging
coordination between donors on key policy and institutional issues. As already stated, the project would
also complement EPRC.
.



- 10 -
II. BALOCMISTAN'S LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES
A. Climate, Land and Agriculture
Climate
2.1             To a large extent, altitude determines the temperature regime in Balochistan. This
varies from cool-temperate to tropical, and is an asset giving Balochistan a comparative advantage for
growing a large variety of crops. The cool-temperate temperature zone is associated with the high
altitude belt and indicated by conifers. The temperate zone coincide-s with the mid-altitude belt where
artemisia, wild pistachio, ash and temperate fruits such as apple, peach, apricot and cherries are grown,
with sometimes wheat as an inter-row crop. Mean annual temperatures are from 10 to 180C, and frost
and snow are common in winter.
2.2             The continental or inland low altitudinal belt and lowland have a subtropical climate
where plant indicators are acacias, prosopis, date palm, pomegranate, citrus and inter-row grain and feed
crops. Mean annual temperatures are between 18 and 24°C. Tropical temperatures prevail in the low
altitudinal belt and lowlands facing the Arabian Sea. This zone is indicated by Acacia senegal, Maerua,
Commiphora mukal and tropical fruits such as coconut palm, papaya and mango. Winters are mild, and
the mean annual temperatures range between 29 and 370C.
Land
2.3             Land Systems. Balochistan can be divided into ten land systems"' delineated by lard
form, altitude and indicator plants, that is, relief, climate and vegetation. The most distinctive of these
are the:
(a)   Brahui-Tobar-Kakar northern and central mountains and rangelands with altitudes
from 900 to 3,500 m and a winter rainfall (11.6 million ha). This is the main upland
orchard area, and generally is the most productive natural rangeland;
(b)  piedmont plains around Sibi, Kachhi and Nasirabad with altitudes from 150 to 200
m and mainly a summer rainfall (2.2 nillion ha). This is Balochistan's main grain
producing area and is irrigated by Indus river water;
(c)  piedmont plains around Lasbela with altitudes from 0 to 200 m and mainly a summer
rainfall (0.6 million ha). This area produces irrigated tropical fruit, rainfed grain
crops (using run-off or flood waters and known as khushkaba or sailaba cultivation
respectively);
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Government of the Netherlands, Dr. Hein
van Gils and M. Shabbir Baig, editors, Environmental Profile,
Balochistan, Pakistan, Wolters-Noordhoff, Groningen, Netherlands,
January 1992.



- I1 -
(d)   Mekran coastal hills and plains with altitudes from 0 to 500 m and mainly a winter
rainfall (6.1 million ha). The coastal area produces a large proportion of Pakistan's
fish, while the inland provides extremely sparse grazing, sailaba cultivation and some
date palm production; and
(e)   Chagai-Kharan desert basin with altitudes from 300 to 900 m and generally a winter
rainfall (5.8 million ha). This provides mainly poor quality grazing.
2.4              Land Use. Of Balochistan's 35 million ha, only about 1.5 million ha or 4% is
cultivated, of which 40% is irrigated and 60% is rainfed, that is using khushkaba or sailaba cultivation
methods. Some 1.1 million ha (3%) isclassifiedas forests, 21.0 million ha (60%) as rangeland, and 11.4
million ha (33%) as wasteland or not suitable for cultivation (desert, mountainous, towns and cities).
2.5              Because of its arid climate, Balochistan's forests have extremely low annual
sustainable yields of firewood and timber. Natural forests only occur on mid- and high-altitudinal slopes,
and at lower altitudes at water run-on locations (such as the gravelly fans and terraces at valley edges).
Balochistan is generally not suitable for timber or fuelwood plantations unless they are irrigated, at least
during their establishment period. Experts estimate that Balochistan's natural forests or woods are only
10% of their original size. While deforestation has continued over centuries it has accelerated in the last
few decades. The Forestry Sector Master Plan estimates Balochistan's 1993 total wood consumption
(fuelwood plus timber) at 3.6 million mn3, and the annual sustainable supply at 0.3 million in3. The
balance comes from imports from other provinces, depletion of forest resources, and from waste lands.
2.6              Perhaps the largest remaining area of juniper woodlands (Juniperus excelsa) in the
world is located in the uplands (2,500 - 2,750 m) near Ziarat township (land system (a) as in para 1.12).
Because of the area's beauty and coolness, it is a favorite summer retreat. Although the juniper woods
are State or Protected Forests, they are under tremendous pressure from the local communities for
firewood and timber. Unless other wood supplies or alternative fuels can be developed, the remaining
juniper woods may disappear over the next 20-30 years.
2.7              The Arid Zone Research Institute (AZR[), Quetta classifies 3 million ha (14%) of
Balochistan's rangeland as good, 6.0 million ha (30%) as medium and 12 million ha (56%) as poor. The
good rangeland produces around 250-280 kg of forage dry matter (dm)/ha/year, medium about 100 kg
din/ha/year, and poor rangeland only 30-50 kg dm/ha/year. Because of over-grazing much, if not all,
rangelands have been degraded as regards both devegetation and the conversion of palatable grasses and
shrubs into less productive and unpalatable vegetation. Additionally, many villagers are now further
destroying rangelands by uprooting small shrubs for fuelwood. Generally, Balochistan's rangelands are
producing at around 30% to 50% of their potential.
2.8              Fishing is an important industry along the Mekran coast, and several coastal towns
depend on it for employment and income. However, shifting sand dunes along the coastline have
covered, and threatened to cover, township buildings and infrastructure such as ports, roads,
conmmunication facilities and airports. Through tree planting, GOBal has stabilized some of the dunes,
however GOBal needs to treat a much larger area. The towns presently most at risk are Pasni, Gwadar
and Pishukan.



- 12 -
Agriculture
2.9              Crops. Balochistan farmers generally can be split between those who grow rainfed
crops (khushkaba and sailaba) and also run small livestock flocks, and those who have access to irrigation
water and grow irrigated crops. The main rainfed crops are wheat, sorghum, rapeseed, mustard and
fodder. The main irrigated crops are wheat, rice, apples, cherries, peaches, grapes, pomegranate, dates
and vegetables. Farmers irrigate grain crops mainly in the Nasirabad area (land system (b) as in para
1.12) under canal irrigation from the Pat Feeder and Kirther canals. The Asian Development Bank is
currently assisting to increase this irrigation service area from 0.22 million ha to 0.26 million ha, and
reduce and eliminate waterlogging and salinity problems which have occurred in the area because of poor
water management.
2.10             Balochistan is Pakistan's main producing area for temperate fruits (apples, peaches,
apricots, grapes, pomegranates) and vegetables (except for potatoes). Farmers grow stone fruits in the
upland areas using water mainly from karezes and tubewells. Because of the relatively high returns from
orchard production, the area of irrigated orchards has increased rapidly over the last decade with a
corresponding large increase in the number of tubewells pumping from the upland aquifers. Between
1981/82 and 1988/89, the area of apples, apricots, grapes and pomegranates increased from 13,300 ha
to 23,400 ha, that is around 8.5% per year.
2.11             Balochistan has 12 major upland underground water basins. The large increase in
tubewells which farmers have installed has led to water mining and large drops in aquifer water levels
in at least four of these basins. For example, from 1976 to 1989, aquifer levels in Quetta, Pishin,
Mangocher and Mastung valleys have fallen by 15 to 50 feet. In the Quetta valley, where aquifers aiso
supply water for Quetta city, individual aquifers are now falling by up to five feet per year.
2.12             LAvestock.  Livestock production is the villager's major economic activity in
Balochistan's uplands. Sheep and goat farming are the major enterprises, and in 1986 total sheep
numbers were 11.1 million and goats 7.3 million. Because the livestock census figures are unreliable,
it is difficult to calculate recent growth rates in their populations. Sheep numbers have certainly increased
over the last decade and Balochistan now contains about 50% of Pakistan's sheep and about 25 % of the
goats. Balochistan's rangelands are considerably overstocked in relation to their forage production
potential. Livestock owners have three main sheep and goat production systems, that is, nomadic (about
10% of owners), transhumant (80%), and sedentary or household (10%).
B. Population and Poverty
2.13             Balochistan's population is currently around 7.1 million, and is growing at least at
the national average of 3.1 % per year. Family planning programs so far have had little success, thus
Balochistan's population will continue to increase for many years to come, with serious environmental
consequences. Because of its aridity, large proportion of people employed in agriculture and small
cultivatable area, Balochistan's average population density is only 20 persons per km2 compared to the
national average of about 125.
2.14             Balochistan's population is mainly tribal, and consists of three major ethnic groups.
The largest group, the Balochi, live predominantly in the province's south-western (Mekran region),
western (Chagai, Kharan) and eastern areas (Marri-Bugti, Sibi, Kachhi). The second largest group, the



- 13 -
Pathans, inhabit roughly the province's northern third in Zhob, Loralai, Quetta and Pishin regions. The
third group, the Brahui, mainly occupy the Kalat plateau around Mastung, Kalat and Khuzdar towns.
Additionally, the province has several minorities, for example, Sindhis, Punjabis, Lasis, Mongol Hazaras,
Muhajirs and so on. Each of the main and minor groups have their own distinct language. The ethnic
groups are divided into tribes which are socio-political er.dties associated with a particular territory.
Tribes are subdivided into sections and subsections which usually reflect genealogy and descent.
2.15             Balochistan, with an estimated per capita income of about US$350 per year (national
average US$390 per year), is the poorest and least developed of Pakistan's four provinces. The
province's literacy rate is also the lowest in Pakistan, 27% for men and 5% for women (national average,
men 40% and women 17%). Almost half of children at school age are illiterate.
C. Laws and Institutions
Legislation
2.16             A multiplicity of laws and regulations at both the federal and provincial levels govern
environmental and natural resource management in Pakistan and Balochistan. Many of these date back
a century or more and were introduced for purposes other than environmental management. The Forest
Act of 1927, for instance, reflects the philosophy of the colonial era and actually facilitates forest
exploitation. GOP is currently reviewing this and will develop new legislation that is more compatible
to modern, sound environmental management.  For the most part legislation is sectoral, relating
specifically to forestry, water, wildlife, land tenure and so on. The first law that covered a wider scope
was the Environmental Protection Ordinance o. 1983, which applies to all Pakistan, and n... provides for
the control of pollution and preservation of the living environment ..." The Ordinance's major features
are the establishment of the Council and PEPA, as well as requiring implementing agencies to undertake
ELAs procedures during project planning and implementation.
2.17             The Ordinance, because of its emphasis on urban and industrial pollution control, is
less than adequate for protecting the country's natural resources. It nevertheless provides a legal
framework for rational environental management, and could be an important first step in incorporating
environmental considerations into economic planning and management. So far GOP has not implemented
the Ordinance because its definitions and operating regulations and procedures have yet to be written and
promulgated. Nevertheless, GOP has recently gazetted (August 1993) national environmental quality
standards relating to municipal and liquid industrial effluents, industrial gaseous emissions and motor
vehicle exhaust and noise. EUAD and PEPA are currently preparing a revised, more comprehensive
Ordinance, and guidelines for the undertaking of EIAs for new development expenditures. As well, some
provincial environmental protection agencies (EPAs) are persuading other agencies to prosecute polluters
under other existing legislation. EPRC is assisting EUAD prepare this new legislation and the necessary
regulations and guidelines.
Institutions
2.18             Under Pakistan's Constitution the environment and ecology are under the concurrent
jurisdiction of the federal and provincial govermments, that is, both levels of government have executive
and legislative powers in these areas. Additionally, two types of government agencies have environmental
responsibilities: those with a primary function of environmental protection and resource conservation; and



- 14 -
those such as line agencies, with a primary sectoral interest in resource use and a secondary interest in
resource conservation. At the federal level, EUAD has primary responsibility for enivironmental
protection and resource conservation and for preparing and developing environmental protection and
resource conservation policy. GOP established EUAD in 1975, and EUAD was mainly responsible for
GOP promulgating the Ordinance, and establishing the Council and PEPA. While in the recent past
EUAD was severely under-staffed and under-funded for its responsibilities, both EPRC and CIDA are
assisting to strengthen EUAD regarding additional staff, technical assistance, training, equipment,
operating funds and work program development. CIDA is directing its assistance to EUAD through
IUCN. EUAD also acts as a secretariat for the Council.
2.19            The Council, established in February 1984, and chaired by Pakistan's Prime Minister,
is to: (a) ensure enforcement of the Ordinance; (b) establish comprehensive national environmental policy;
(c) ensure incorporation of enviromnental considerations into national development plans and policies;
(d) ensure enforcement of the national environmental quality standards; and (e) promote environmentally
related research. The Council's members include federal and provincial Ministers responsible for the
environment, the federal Secretary dealing with the environment, and other federally selected appointees.
2.20            PEPA, originally established to be the secretariat and executive ann of the Council,
is now an attached Department of EUAD. As such it will operate as EUAD's technical, legal and
enforcement ann, undertaking fieldwork and research as necessary. PEPA is also responsible for
establishing guidelines on how implementing agencies should undertake EIA procedures during project
planning, and for reviewing and sanctioning EIAs. EPRC is assisting to strengthen PEPA by providing
additional staff, technical assistance, training, equipment and operating funds.
2.21            Although the Ordinance did not specify it, each of the four provinces has established
its own provincial EPA. GOP has encouraged this, with provincial EPAs having similar functions to
PEPA, and under the Ordinance, acting for PEPA in the provinces, and implementing the Ordinance.
While at its recent initial meeting (May 1993), the Council delegated authority to act under the Ordinance
to EPAs, EPAs will be unable to enforce the Ordinance until its operating regulations are gazetted, or
new legislation enacted. Both of these are expected to occur during 1994. GOBal also proposes to
establish an ES within its P&D which would be responsible for coordinating provincial environmental
issues, and would ensure P&D's economic planning takes account of environmental concerns. BEPA
would be a regulatory agency responsible for implementing environmental legislation.
2.22            In addition to the above agencies, many federal and provincial line agencies are
involved in the development and use of the country's natural resources, and have a secondary interest in
resource conservation. For example, the Ministry of Water and Power (MWP) and the Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA) are responsible for the development of the country's water resources,
while the provincial Irrigation and Agricultural Departments are responsible for operation and
management of a large portion of these water resources. The Ministry of Communication is responsible
for enforcing the Territorial Waters and Maritime Act of 1976. Likewise, the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Cooperatives (MINFAC) is responsible for the protection of forests and research on the
effects of pesticides, as are also the provincial Departments of Forestry, Livestock and Wildlife.
2.23            This complex division of responsibility underscores the multi-sectorat nature of
environmental concerns as well as the critical role that a variety of federal and provincial agencies are
expected to play in the protection of the country's enviromnental resource base. However, till now there



- 15 -
has been minimal coordination among federal and provincial ministries and line agencies. Each has
pursued its task basically in isolation from other agencies with policies and programs often in conflict.
Past efforts to coordinate activities have generally been viewed by the vertical line agencies as a threat
to their own power structure and thus have rarely endured. Now the Ordinance charges the Council,
through EUAD and PEPA, with the primary responsibility for environmental protection and natural
resource conservation, and with coordinating national environmental programs. EPRC and this project
are attempting to strengthen EUAD, PEPA, EPAs and Punjab and Balochistan P&Ds so that they have
the resources to sustain this responsibility.
D. Property Rights
Land Tenure
2.24             While cropped land is usually privately owned in Balochistan, practically all rangeland
is tribally owned. GOBal, through BFD, controls only a small proportion of the rangelands. The various
tribes control and operate their rangelands as either common or open rangeland. Tribal authorities
manage common rangelands, which are usually the more productive areas, by shutting it to livestock at
various times during the year. This is usually in the spring when, following the winter rains, young
grasses and herbage are coming away. T'ie tribes, however, do not close open rangelands, and graze
these continuously throughout the year. Traditionally, tribes graze their livestock on the open rangeland
when they close their common rangeland. All members of a tribe have equal access to their rangeland,
and nomads may be allowed to graze their open rangeland.
2.25             To a large extent increasing human and livestock populations, and livestock
production becoming more market rather than subsistent oriented, are breaking down tribal authority.
As this happens, more and more common rangeland is becoming open rangeland, and being seriously
degraded. To rehabilitate rangeland and ensure a sustained yield from it, the tribes amongst other things,
must reduce stocking rates, and control access to it. This will require a higher level of management than
presently being practiced, and this perhaps can best be introduced in conjunction with new technology,
for example, with the introduction of an improved pasture specie.
Access to Forest Land
2.26             Under GOP and GOBal forest laws and regulations, local conmnunities have the right
to graze livestock, collect deadwood for fuel, and cut some timber in State and Protected Forests. While
this was tenable when first introduced, increasing human and livestock populations have made these rights
incompatible with the survival of Balochistan's forests and wooded areas. Excessive livestock grazing
has prevented natural regeneration of forest species, and reduced the ground cover thus leading to
increased rainfall run-off and soil erosion. Local villagers have excessively lopped branches from trees
for fuelwood, either restricting tree growth or killing the tree. Forest guards are unable to control
villagers' access to or activities in forest areas, and Balochistan's forests are quickly being degraded or
are disappearing. For any chance of preserving Balochistan's forests, GOBal must rethink traditional
access rights of local communities to them, initiate the search for alternative sources of fuel, and give
communities a greater involvement in the ownership and management of the forested areas.



. 16-
Access to Aquifers
2.27             At present access to Balochistan's aquifers is ineffectively regulated, and a land owner
can dig a well or drill a tubewell more or less where he wishes on his land. Currently a provincial
ordinance requires a land owner to obtain a no objection certificate (NOC) from the District Water
Committee (DWC) before drilling a tubewell, and specifies that tubewells should be at least 750 feet apart
on the valley floor, and 1,500 feet apart on the valley terraces or gravely fans. So far DWCs (composed
of large land owners) rarely refuse NOC applications, and the spacing regulations do not take aecount
of the aquifer's sustainable yield. In many instances, tubewells are merely replacing existing water
supplies from karezes, and are not producing new or additional water.
2.28             While GOBal has already undertaken work estimating the sustainable yields from its
underground water basins, it now should further study the aquifers in detail, reviewing existing
production, sustainable yields and tribal and traditional water rights, and produce new legislation and
regulations based on sound technical data to control access and production from the province's aquifers.
Although originally this project was to provide the funds for such a study, GOBal recently accepted
financial assistance from the Royal Netherlands Government for the work.
2.29             Additionally, Balochistan is subsidizing the cost of drilling tubewells. Some five
government agencies drill them, charging upto 40% less than the commercial cost of drilling. Since
irrigated orchards are returning relatively large profits, farmers do not need any incentive to sink a
tubewell. Thus GOBal should eliminate this subsidy and its agencies should charge commercial drilling
rates.
2.30             Other federal subsidizes also encourage the use of tubewells. GOP subsidizes the
electrical hook-ups of tubewells, drilling costs in rainfed areas (Rs 15,000/tubewell), and electricity
charges. Under the proposed Power Sector Development Project, the Bank would address the removal
of subsidies from electricity charges plus several other price policy issues.
E. Natural Habitats and National Parks
2.31             Human and livestock pressures have reduced the extent of natural vegetation in all
areas of Balochistan. Not only has this reduced the quantity and quality of natural resources available
to man, but it has also modified and reduced natural habitats available for Balochistan's indigenous plants
and animals. Due to this, and disturbance and competition from domestic livestock, and often from the
pressures of uncontrolled hunting, many animal species are now extinct, endangered or threatened.
Hunting has always been popular in Balochistan, for sport by the wealthy and for meat by the rural poor.
There has also recently been an increased interest in sport hunting by overseas visitors from the Gulf,
Europe and the United States. Although hunting regulations exist, they are poorly applied. The
following birds and mammals are endangered. Houbara bustard, cranes, falcons, grey wolf, Balochistan
black bear, Chiltan markhor, and straight-horned markhor.



- 17 -
2.32            Pakistan contains some 5,500 to 6,000 vascular!' plant species, and Balochistan about
1,500 species, which represents a low plant diversity on the global scale (for example, Colombia 50,000-
60,000, Turkey 10,000). Both SS and IT flora are relatively poor in plant species. However only one
plant specie in Pakistan (Ulmus wallichaiana) is listed as being threatened. This certainly does not reflect
the real situation, and preliminary results of recent surveys indicate that as many as 500 plant species
need some form of protection.
2.33            Balochistan contains three national parks covering 0.35 million ha, 14 wildlife
sanctuaries (0.95 million ha), and six gamne reserves (0.24 million ha). Two of the game reserves (Bund
Khushdil Khan and Zangi Nawar) are wetlands of international importance. Except for Hazarganji-
Chiltan National Park located adjacent to Quetta, flora and fauna are protected only in theory within these
areas. GOBal has few trained wildlife staff.
F. Watershed and Rangeland Rehabilitation
2.34            Over the last ten years development agencies have had some success in recharging
upland aquifers and in identifying improved grazing/fodder species which possibly could be used to assist
rehabilitate Balochistan's rangelands. BFD, under the IGPRA projects has shown that it is technically
possible to recharge upland aquifers'. BFD has accomplished this through check damming, contour
trenching and encouraging restoration of plant coverage on the gravelly fans where infiltration rates are
the highest. While contour trenching appears to reduce the intensity of flood run-off, reviews of the work
are uncertain as to its benefits in increasing infiltration rates. In future work a small amount of contour
ripping should be done to substitute for the contour trenching, and the results evaluated.
2.35            In Balochistan's dry climate any recharge of aquifers from rainfall is relatively small.
Nevertheless, in the Karkhasa valley, a small area adjacent to Quetta (ten km long by about one km
wide), BFD has managed to increase the water flow from existing springs. Of five springs within the
valley, several of which had stopped running, BFD works appear to have increased individual flows by
up to some 0.25 ft3/second.
2.36            Over the last five to six years the Arid Zone Research Institute (AZRI) has done
considerable experimental work on the establishment, management and grazing of Atriplex canescens
(four-wing saltbush). This woody shrub technically has extremely good potential for increasing on-farm
production of both fodder and fuelwood. Under Balochistan conditions it has produced from two to eight
tons of dm per ha per year. It has potential to be used as a fodder bank to reduce grazing intensity on
rangelands during certain periods of the year. GOBal now should test this shrub on-farm, under farmer
management, to determine how it could be integrated into Balochistan agro-pastoral production systems.
1/        Flowering plants and conifers, but excluding mosses, lichens, fungi,
algae and micro-organisms.
Impact Evaluation Report for Pakistan Income Generating Project for
Refugee Areas (Phase I), Institute for Development Programs, McLean,
Virginia, April 15, 1988.



- 18 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1        The project's general objectives are to improve protection of the environment and
management of natural resources. Its specific objectives are to:
(a)  strengthen the principal institutions in Balochistan responsible for environmental
protection and natural resource management;
(b) develop policies for improved and sustainable use of natural resources, particularly
for woodland protection, rangeland management and upland aquifer use;
(c)  increase policymakers', government officials' and the public's awareness of damage
being done to the environment and natural resources;
(d)  address some immediate, high priority, resource management problems in the
province; and
(e)   undertake studies and preparation for future environmental protection and natural
resource management projects.
B. Summay Description
3.2        The project is the first phase in an expected long-term program of World Bank Group
support to improve Balochistan's environmental protection and natural resource management. The project
consists of a series of actions to strengthen local communities and involve them in the design and
imnplementation of natural resource rehabilitation and development; improve natural resource use policies
so that natural resources are used in a sustainable manner; strengthen institutions involved with natural
resource use and conservation so they are better able to undertake their responsibilities; and undertake
subprojects to rehabilitate and develop natural resources. The individual project components are:
situtonal Strntheing
(a)  establishing an Enviromnental Section within P&D by providing staff, training,
technical assistance, equipment, vehicles and operating funds;
(b)  strengthening BEPA through providing staff, training, technical assistance, civil
works, equipment, vehicles and operating funds;
(c)  strengthening BFD through providing training in community extension, project
planning and national park management;
(d)  initiating mass awareness programs to educate decision makers and the public
concerning environmental issues through workshops, short programs on radio and
television, articles in newspapers and magazines, the use of billboards and posters,
and other means;



- 19 -
(e)  studies and actions to improve natural resource use policies, and feasibility studies
to prepare other natural resource use projects;
Natural Resource Rehabilitation Subprojects
(f)   operations to rehabilitate and develop damaged natural resources:
(i)   Sand Dune Stabilization on the Mekran Coast at Pasni, Gwadar and Pishukan;
and
(ii)  Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park Development;
(g)  pilot programs to develop site-specific methods of rehabilitating and developing
damaged natural resources:
(i)   Rangeland and Watershed Rehabilitation Development in Northern Balochistan
(250 to 400 mm rainfall); and
(ii)  Ziarat Juniper Forest Conservation.
C. Project Details
[nstitutional Development
3.3        P&D. Under the project, P&D would establish an ES which would have the following
objectives: (a) coordinating all environmental matters within Balochistan; and (b) ensuring the sustainable
and/or efficient use of natural resources. The section would be responsible for: (a) coordinating all
Balochistan enviromnental matters and formulating environmental policy, legislation and regulations;
(b) reviewing provincial development proposals to ensure they take account of GOP and GOBal
envirornental policies; and (c) monitoring natural resource management, and when necessary, liaising
and coordinating with provincial line agencies (including undertaking policy and feasibility studies) to
introduce economically viable and ecologically sound natural resource management policies and practices.
ES would consist of two sub-sections, one of which would work on natural resource issues, while the
other would review industrial and urban development proposals. Chart I shows ES's staffing, and the
section's higher-level staff {Basic Pay Scale (BPS)-16 and above} would include a Director General (BPS-
20), two Directors (BPS-19), three Assistant Directors (BPS-17), and four Research Assistants (BPS-16).
The natural resource sub-section would consist of one Director, two Assistant Directors and three
Research Assistants. The industry and urban sub-section would consist of one Director, one Assistant
Director and one Research Assistant (Chart 1).
3.4        P&D has already appointed ES's key staff, that is, the Director General, one Director, two
Assistant Directors and the necessary support staff, and is currently recruiting the remaining required
staff. ES thus will be able to quickly commence its work programs. The project would fund ES's ten
higher level and necessary support staff positions. Additionally, the project would provide ES vehicles,
office equipment, computers (plus software and air conditioners), technical books and journals, short-term
local and foreign training, and long-term foreign training (one MSc), internationally and locally recruited
technical assistance, and incremental operating costs. To assist ES develop its work programs, the
technical assistance would include natural resource management experts. It would also include training



- 20-
experts to help ES develop its local and foreign training. Besides agency staff, community leaders would
also be included in short-term local and foreign training programs. To ensure P&D completes ES's
staffing without delay, IDA obtained an assurance that by September 30, 1994, P&D would recruit and
place the balance of ES's staff, that is, one Director, one Assistant Director and four Research Assistants
(BPS-16), plus the remaining required support staff.
3.5        BEPA.  The project would strengthen BEPA to enable it to meet its objectives of
implementing and enforcing national and provincial environmental protection legislation and regulations,
and creating awareness of environmental problems in Balochistan.  BEPA is responsible for:
(a) measuring and monitoring industrial, urban and agricultural pollutant discharges into the province's
air, water and soil, and legally enforcing national/provincial environmental quality standards;
(b) instituting provincial environmental impact assessment (EIA) procedures for investments likely to
damage the environment, reviewing EIAs of public development proposals, and monitoring any
subsequent expenditures or actions taken to alleviate possible environmentally damaging impacts; and
(c) undertaking mass awareness programs concerning environmental issues. Chart 2 shows BEPA's
staffing. BEPA already has a Director General (BPS-20), one Deputy Director, two Assistant Directors,
and three Research Assistant positions. Under the project BEPA would create and fill positions for an
extra Assistant Director, an Administrative Officer (BPS-16), and additional support staff. BEPA would
also establish a publicity unit, consisting of an Assistant Director, two Publicity Officers (BPS-16), one
Photographer (BPS-14) and one Technician (BPS-14). BEPA would organize its staff into three sub-
sections, each headed by an Assistant Director, a publicity unit and an administration unit. One sub-
section would work on the Hub Industrial Estate, another on industrial waste and emission issues, and
the third on urban waste disposal issues. To assist BEPA staff undertake their duties, the project would
provide an office building, staff houses, vehicles, portable pollution measuring equipment, computers
(plus software and air conditioners), technical books and journals, short-term local and foreign training,
and long-term foreign training (one MSc), internationally and locally recruited technical assistance, and
incremental operating costs. To assist BEPA develop its work programs, the technical assistance would
include environment engineers with experience in urban and industrial waste and emissions management,
environmentalists with experience in EIA procedures, and mass awareness experts. It would also include
training experts to help BEPA develop its local and foreign training programs (in conjunction with ES),
and a legal expert to assist review environmental legislation. To ensure BEPA obtains all its staff without
delay, IDA obtained an assurance that by September 30, 1994, BEPA would hire two Assistant Directors
(BPS-li), one Adinnistrative Officer, two publicity officers (BPS-16), and the necessary support staff.
3.6        BFD. Besides providing BFD additional management and support staff, technical assistance
and training to implement the natural resource rehabilitation subprojects, the project would strengthen
BFD's overall capabilities in community extension, project planning and implementation, and national
park management. To strengthen BFD's community extension, it would provide training programs in
community extension (two weeks in-service) for all higher level BFD staff, focussing particularly on
social or farm forestry and range management activities. The training program's objectives would be to
strengthen BFD's capabilities to interact and work with local communities, and orient BFD's overall
approach to natural resource management ftom a "top down" manner to one of heavily involving local
communities in the planning and implementation of natural resource development. The Pakistan Forest
Institute (PFI) would conduct the training at its facilities in Peshawar, NWFP. The project would also
provide long-term foreign training consisting of one MSc in social forestry at an appropriate foreign
university.



- 21 -
3.7        To improve BFD's planning capabilities, the project would provide BFD's planning staff
short-term foreign training in natural resource development planning, vehicles and staff housing. The
staff housing would be an incentive to encourage better performing staff to join BFD's planning group.
To strengthen project implementation, the project would provide one MSc in nursery management at a
foreign university. Under the Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park Development subproject (HCNP), the
project would provide BFD staff foreign long and short-term training in national park management (see
para 3.15). This would include one MSc degree, and 18 sm of short-term training consisting of working
in appropriate foreign national parks.
3.8        Under the four subprojects, the project would provide BFD an additional five graduate staff
and 17 non-graduate staff, plus the necessary support staff. Para 4.06 describes the duties and
responsibilities of these graduate and non-graduate staff. BFD has already hired key staff, that is, two
Divisional Forest Officers (DFOs) (BPS-18). To ensure BFD recruits the balance of its staff in a timely
manner, IDA has obtained an assurance that BFD would hire one Vistor's Center Curator, two Forest
Rangers (FRs) (BPS-16), eight Foresters (FOs) (BPS-6), nine Forest Guards (FGs) (BPS-2), and the
necessary support staff, by no later than September 30, 1994.
Mass Awareness Programs
3.9        The project would provide BEPA funds throughout the project's life for its Publicity unit
to run mass awareness programs to educate decision makers and the public concerning environmental
issues, and generate public support and participation in measures to protect the environment. The
programs would consist of workshops, short radio and television programs, newspaper and magazine
articles, the use of billboards and posters, and other appropriate means. Depending on the particular
community group BEPA wished to influence, it would carefully select the programs and media to be used
taking account of the group's literacy level and media form its members most commonly use. BEPA
would contract local organizations or experts to produce any required materials (film, articles and so on)
and would then publicize them through appropriate local media. It would also evaluate the effectiveness
of the programs. The project would provide BEPA internationally and locally recruited technical
assistance to help design the programs and evaluate their effectiveness.
Policy Changes and Studies, Project Prepartion, Tubewefi Drilling Subsidies
3.10       The project would contribute to policy changes, both formal and informal to improve the
sustainability and efficiency of use of aquifers, rangelands and forested areas. Concerning aquifers, the
project would ensure development of improved legislation to regulate access to aquifers, and eliminate
GOBal subsidies on tubewell drilling. The proposed Power Sector Development project would address
federal pricing policy issues, including removing subsidies from electricity charges for tubewells (para
2.30). Regarding rangelands, on a pilot basis, the project would introduce an improved pasture specie
to see if improved range management practices can be developed around it (para 3.17). Concerning
forested areas, again on a pilot basis, the project would introduce forest zoning, community participation
in management and enforcement of activities within zoned areas, and production of fuelwood plantations
to try and develop sustainable forest management practices (para 3.19-3.20). While the project may not
directly introduce formal policy changes (legislation) for range and forest management, it will ensure full
community participation in developing, designing and implementing the proposed changes to be
introduced. This will help internalize externalities arising from the use of these resources under present
policies.



- 22 -
3.11       The project would provide ES funds for environmental policy studies (US$0.3 million
equivalent) and for preparation of future natural resource management projects (US$0.3 million
equivalent). In most cases ES would undertake or contract the studies in collaboration with the
appropriate federal or provincial agency. ES would also internationally and locally recruit consultants
to assist with the studies. Soon after project conmmencement, and using Royal Netherlands Government
grant funds, ES would initiate a high priority study to develop the technical criteria for regulating access
to Balochistan's aquifers and prepare the accompanying legislation and ordinances. Balochistan's
Irrigation Department, with appropriate consultant assistance, would undertake this study for ES. Other
priority policy topics for study could include, amongst other things, surveying and reviewing issues
concerning tribal land tenure rights, natural resource management along Balochistan's coastline, air
pollution and solid and liquid waste disposal in Quetta and the Hub industrial area, and fertilizer and
pesticide residuals. Early in the project's life ES, in collaboration with BEPA and assisted by the project
consultants (natural resource management and industrial and urban waste disposal experts), would
prioritize and initiate the program of policy studies.  IDA obtained assurances from GOBal that ES
would: (a) submit proposals for studies to IDA for review and approval before commencing them; (b)
engage consultants with qualifications and under conditions acceptable to IDA for undertaking the studies;
and (c) by June 30, 1996: (i) complete the study to develop technical criteria for regulating access to
Balochistan 's aqwufers; and (i) have drafted appropriate legislation and ordinances.
3.12       To encourage the efficient sustainable use of groundwater, during the two and a half years
from July 1, 1994, to January 1, 1997, GOBal would progressively eliminate all subsidies involved with
GOBal agencies drilling tubewells. To ensure tubewell drilling subsidies are timely removed, IDA
obtained an assurance from GOBal that during July 1994 to January 1, 1997 GOBal agencies would
eliminate, in three stages, all subsidies they provide when drilling tubewells, that is, by no later than July
1. 1994, reduce the drilling subsidies to 70% of the level at which it stood on July 1, 1993; by no later
than July 1, 1995, to 40% of this level; by no later than July 1, 1996, to 10% of this level; and by
Januy 1, 1997, completely eliminate all drilling subsidies.
Natural Resource Rehabilitation Subprojects
3.13       The project would support four subprojects, two operations and two pilot programs, to
rehabilitate and develop degraded forests, watersheds, rangelands, coastal areas and natural habitats.
GOBal has identified these subprojects as priority work in rehabilitating and protecting its agro-ecological
resources and has chosen them because they: (a) address pressing problems of environmental and natural
resource degradation; (b) are acceptable to the local population; (c) involve sustainable use of natural
resources and are ecologically sound; (d) will have economic internal rates of return (IRR) of 10% or
greater (subprojects for which benefits are calculable); (e) conform to GOP, GOBal and Bank strategies
and priorities in environmental protection and natural resource management; and (f) have a reasonable
chance of succeeding, andi are within GOBal's capabilities to implement with reasonable technical
assistance support. The following paragraphs briefly describe the subprojects, while Annex 1 gives their
detailed cost estimates and Annexes 2 through 5 and the Project Implementation Volume give subproject
details.
3.14       Sand Dune Stabiization on the Mekran Coast. Under the project, the Sand Dune
Stabilization subproject (SDS) would strengthen BFD to undertake sand dune stabilization work, halt sand
dune movement near the coastal towns of Pasni, Gwadar and Pishukan, conduct research on sand dune
stabilization, improve local fuelwood supplies and provide a more pleasant habitat in and around the
towns. SDS is located along the Mekran coast in the province's far south-western region, adjacent to



- 23 -
Iran. The area is a coastal plain with an average annual rainfall of some 100 mm. Moving sand dunes
have destroyed, and are threatening to destroy, buildings and infrastructure in the coastal fishing towns
and villages. SDS would: (a) strengthen BFD's staff working on the Mekran coast; (b) plant trees and
shrubs on some 5,000 ha around the towns of Pasni, Gwadar and Pishukan to stabilize and halt sand dune
movement; (c) promote the planting of about 50,000 fuelwood and some 10,000 fruit trees by local
organizations and individuals within towns and around homes; and (d) conduct research, including
adaptive trials and demonstrations, which will: (i) screen indigenous and exotic species of trees, shrubs
and vegetative covers for sand dune fixation and for social/farm forestry activities (fuelwood and fruit
trees). This would include dry sowing experiments on dunes or in existing tree plantations to create
ground vegetation and fix dunes using indigenous and exotic shrubs, herbs or grasses; and (ii) continue
studies on soil salinity and the means of reducing its effects in existing and potential tree plantation areas
through irrigation/leaching and soil amendments. The studies would also investigate the use of physical
barriers to reduce sand blast and fertilization to increase tree growth, and ways of controlling rats and
termites in the plantations. To support SDS, the project would provide mapping, tree nurseries, tree
planting, adaptive trial inputs, staff offices and housing, vehicles, equipment and tools, internationally
and locally recruited technical assistance, local and foreign training, and incremental staff and operating
costs. Annex 2 describes project works in more detail.
3.15       Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park Development. Under the project, the Hazarganji-
Chiltan National Park Development subproject (HCNP) would strengthen BFD's national park/wilderness
area management capability; develop a park management plan (PMP) for the Hazarganji-Chiltan national
park covering development of natural resources, infrastructure and facilities; and implement the plan.
The park itself is located 20 km southwest of Quetta in northern Balochistan. It covers about 15,600 ha,
consisting of rugged and dissected mountain ridges varying in elevation from 1,500 ni to 3,300 m. With
an average annual rainfall of about 225 mm, the park is an area of great scenic and rugged beauty.
Following gazettement as a national park in 1977, BFD has managed to partially enclose and protect the
area, and indigenous grasses, shrubs and other plants have re-established themselves. The park also
contains the unique, endemic Chiltan Makhor (Capra falconeri-chiltanensis), whose population has
increased from some 110 to around 480 since being protected.
3.16       Under the subproject, and using a multi-disciplinary team including technical assistance,
BFD would review and update an existing PMP for the park, while concurrently undertaking a wildlife
and natural resource inventory of the park. BFD would incorporate the inventory results into a final
PMP, and obtain IDA's agreement to the final PMP before implementing it. PMP implementation would
cover the following activities: (a) rehabilitating and conserving the natural habitat, including soil erosion
control and improved water infiltration, through the limited planting of indigenous trees and grasses, gully
plugging, check dam construction, planting of vegetative hedges (vetiver grass) along contours, and
ripping en the contour; (b) developing water supplies for both wildlife (springs and watering points) and
staff and visitor facilities; (c) constructing an additional 16 km of park boundary fence, about 24 km
equivalent (including rehabilitation works) of patrol roads, and some 30 km of hiking trails; (d)
constructing a visitor's center, consisting of an exhibition hall, a slides/video film projection room, a
small cafeteria and washrooms, which will display exhibits, photographs, video film and so on of
wildlife, plants, geography and the environment of the local area and Balochistan; (e) constructing
recreational facilities including camp sites, benches and tables, children's play areas, shelters and staff
offices and houses; and (f) research on the reintroduction of some indigenous animals to the park such
as the urial. To support HCNP, the project would provide mapping, vehicles, equipment, civil works,
tree and shrub planting, soil erosion control works, research inputs, internationally and locally recruited
technical assistance, foreign and local training, and incremental staff and operating funds. BFD would



- 24 -
contract with WWF to organize and supply the necessary technical assistance and local in-service training
of staff. Under long and short-term foreign training, BFD would send one staff member to a suitable
foreign university to do an MSc in national park management, and several staff to suitable foreign
national parks to work for two to three months in park management. IDA has obtained an assurance
from GOBal that BFD would submit its PMP for Hazarganji-Chiltan national park to IDA for review and
approval before commencing to implement it. Annex 3 describes project works in more detail.
3.17       Rangeland/Watershed Rehabilitation.  Under the project, the Rangeland/Watershed
Rehabilitation pilot program subproject (RWRP) would plant a relatively high producing fodder shrub
(Atriplex canescens, commionly called four-wing salt bush) on individually or tribally controlled rangeland
to test the technical, economic and social feasibility of introducing the shrub into the province's agro-
pastoral grazing systems. If this pilot program is successful, it could lead to a wider introduction of
atriplex to Balochistan's rangeland, and in association with appropriate range stocking rates and
management, contribute towards the rehabilitation of the province's rangelands in the higher rainfall zones
(200 to 400 mm). BFD, in association with AZRI, has selected five sites throughout northern Balochistan
within the northem and central rangelands land system classification (see para 2.03(a)). At each site BFD
would select some two to ten households and plant a total of about 30 ha of atriplex on the householder's
land. BFD's total atriplex plantings would be 150 ha. While introducing atriplex, at some sites BFD
would attempt to harness the potential of selected micro-catchments to provide seasonal minor irrigation
through improving water infiltration in the nicro-atchments using measures such as check-dams, contour
ripping, gully plugging and vegetative hedges planted along the contour. BFD would plant the atriplex
along contours on or just below the gravelly fans in the drainage of the improved micro-catchments, or
in some cases on the valley floor. The plantings can be established either into existing natural pasture
or into old cultivation areas where it could be inter-cropped. Farmers would manage the plantings as a
fodder bank to relieve grazing pressure on the adjacent natural pastures at selected times during the year.
3.18       At a third to a half of the sites, for each ha of atriplex planted, BFD would improve about
10 ha of micro-catchmient area, or a total of some 800 ha of micro-catchment. Before selecting the
householders to participate in the program, BFD would undertake diagnostic surveys of each site to help
plan the developments, and to incorporate local householders into the designing and implementation of
the program. AZRI would assist BFD implement RWRP, and would monitor and interpret the results.
To support the pilot program, the project would provide mapping, atriplex nurseries and planting, a
vehicle, tractor and implements, equipment, internationally and locally recruited constiltants, and
incremental operating costs. Annex 4 details project works for the subproject.
3.19       Ziarat Juniper Forest Conservation. The better remaining portions of Balochistan's rare
juniper forests and woodlands cover about 50,000 ha in the districts of Ziarat and Loralai. The trees are
growing under extremely harsh conditions at between 1,800 and 3,000 m elevation; in poor soils; under
annual average rainfalls of 200 to 250 mm; and a growing season of some five to six months per year.
Annual growth and natural regeneration of the juniper is minute, and local demand for timber and fuel
is severely depleting and degrading the forest areas. To initiate efforts to conserve the ecologically
richest remaining stands of juniper, the Ziarat Juniper Forest Conservation pilot program (ZJFC) would
zone the forest for different uses, and plant commnunity fuelwood shrub plantations around the juniper
areas as substitute sources of community fuelwood and timber. The subproject would test the operational
feasibility of the new forest management proposals, and the technical, social and economic feasibility of
growing community fuelwood plantations under such harsh conditions. If successful, these pilot
operations could lead to a second phase project. ZJFC would: (a) reorganize and strengthen BFD's Ziarat
Forest Division; (b) survey and inventory the forest areas regarding forest and water resources (including



- 25 -
diseased juniper areas), topography, land use and population, while concurrently undertaking a diagnostic
survey of the area to help plan operations, and to incorporate the local communities into the planning and
implementation of the program; (c) classify the forest into four distinct zones according to tree
population, size, height, quality and health, and specify the activities allowable in each zone; (d) establish
about 500 ha of community fuelwood shrub plantations, which, if considered successful by the mid-term
review, BFD would expand to 1,000 ha during the project's second half; (e) undertake about 10,000 ha
of soil erosion control and water infiltration improvement works (check dams, vetiver grass planting and
other) on the higher, steeper areas, including developing about 10-12 springs; (f) produce and distribute
some 100,000 tree seedlings for individuals and groups to plant around their homesteads and villages;
(g) construct staff offices, houses and other buildings, and forest vehicle tracks (about 35 Iam) and paths
(75 Iam); (h) conduct public awareness campaigns concerning the project; and (i) undertake research and
trials on new species of fuelwood trees, shrubs, grasses and fodders, and on dwarf mistletoe disease
(Anceuthobium oxyce dri) which attacks juniper.
3.20       BFD and the local communities would jointly agree on and enforce the activities to be
allowed in each of the proposed forest zones. The zones themselves would be generally as follows: (a)
Zone A would include the best forest, and would be strictly protected as a heritage for future generations.
It may consist of several small areas, each of which would be fenced, and which may total around 1,500
ha; (b) Zone B would comprise the forest around Ziarat township (some 1,000 ha). It would be marked
by border posts, and would also be an exclusion area to ensure the township remained surrounded by
forest; (c) Zone C would be the second-best forest or buffer zone, about 10,000 ha marked by border
posts. When appropriate, villagers could cut grass and collect fuelwood in this zone; and (d) Zone D
would comprise the remaining 37,500 ha of project area. To support ZJFC works, the project would
provide mapping, seedlings, civil works, vehicles, equipment, internationally and locally recruited
technical assistance, foreign and local training, and incremental staff and operating costs. Annex 5 details
the subproject's work.
Trining and Technical Assitanc
3.21       Training. As few people in Balochistan have experience in environmental protection and
resource management, and it is a new subject for governmental agencies, training is extremely important
to introduce agency staff to the basic concepts involved. To enable staff to quickly obtain on-the-job
expertise, project training is mainly structured around short-term foreign and local courses, which the
project would strongly support. Short-term foreign courses would consist of study tours, working tours
with suitable foreign entities, international seminars, conferences and workshops, short courses on
particular subjects, and foreign lecturers conducting short courses in Pakistan. Short-term local training
would consist of introductory courses to sensitize senior government officials to environmental protection
and natural resource management, and regular in-service training for professional staff. ES and BEPA
would internationally and locally hire consultants to assist develop and implement their foreign and local
training, including undertaking a skill gap analysis. Other consultants hired under the project would also
assist plan, develop and implement the foreign and local training. The project would also provide some
long-term foreign training, one MSc for ES, one for BEPA and three for BFD staff. Long-term traiuing
has been minimized so that the few staff trained in natural resource management are not away from their
duties for long periods. Annex 6, Table 1 lists the aggregate training program by implementing agency.
lDA obtained an assurancefrom GOBal that ES, BEPA and BFD wouldfurnish proposalsfor any training
under the project to IDA for its prior review and approval.



- 26 -
3.22       Technical Assistance. To assist in implementing the project and individual work programs,
ES, BEPA and BFD together would internationally recruit about 50 staff months (smiR) and locally
recruit some 178 staff months (smLR) of technical assistance as follows:
(a)   ES would recruit:
(i)   natural resource management experts to assist ES develop its overall work
programs (4 smiR and 3 smLR); and
(ii)  training experts to undertake a training needs assessment of ES's staff, and
then design and assist implement local and foreign training programs (3 smiR
and 3 smLR). The experts would also design short programs to sensitize high
level GOBal staff to natural resource management problems;
(b)   BEPA would recruit:
(i)   environmental engineers with experience in industrial, urban and agri-business
waste disposal to assist in developing BEPA's program of measuring and
monitoring pollutant discharge into Balochistan's air, water and soil (4 smIR
and 4 smLR);
(ii)  environmentalists to assist BEPA introduce and initiate its EIA procedures for
development expenditures likely to damage the environment (4 smlR and
4 smLR);
(iii)  training experts to undertake a training needs assessment of BEPA's staff, and
then design and assist implement local and foreign training programs (2 smIR
and 2 smLR). The experts would also design short programs to sensitize high
level GOBal staff to industrial and urban emissions and waste disposal issues;
(iv)  mass awareness experts to assist design mass awareness programs and evaluate
their effectiveness (3 smIR and 3 smLR); and
(v)  legal expert to review the province's environmental legislation (3 smLR).
(c)   BFD would recruit monitoring and evaluation specialists to assist design and
implement appropriate monitoring and evaluation systems for all four subprojects (3
smIR and 6 smLR). It would also recruit:
(i)  for SDS a sand dune stabilization specialist (6 smIR), sociologist (12 smLR),
and a University of Karachi (UOK) research team consisting of a botanist and
a soil salinity expert (14 smLR) and research fellows/assistants (20 smLR);
(ii)  for HCNP a park management planner/team  leader (8 smIR), natural
resource/habitat improvement advisor (4 smLR), wildlife management
specialist (4 smLR), a recreational development/civil engineer (3 smIR), and
sociologist/socio-economist (6 smLR);



- 27 -
(iii)  for RWRP an agricultural economist/diagnostic survey specialist (3 sm1R), a
sociologist (12 smLR), and an AZRI team of economists, pasture and
livestock experts to assist implement and monitor the pilot program and
interpret the program results (lump sum provided);
(iv)  for ZJFC an agricultural economist/diagnostic survey specialist (3 smIR and
3 smLR), community forester (2 smIR), juniper/mistletoe disease specialist (2
smlR), sociologist (45 smLR), Pakistan Forest Institute (PFI) research team
(12 smLR), AZRI research team (12 smLR); and
(v)  for ZJFC civil engineers to design and supervise construction of the water
supply to the proposed community fuelwood shrub plantation at Mazri Shores.
3.23       By December 31, 1994, ES, BEPA and BFD would have internationally recruited a single
consultant firm or consortium of firms to supply all the above listed services except for assistance from
PFI, AZRI and UOK, technical assistance which BFD will require for implementing HCNP (para
3.22(c)(ii)], and civil engineers for BFD [para 3.22(c)(v)]. The firm or consortium should have local
expertise, or associate itself with a suitable local firm, to supply the required locally recruited consultants.
If necessary to supply expertise in a particular area, the firm may subcontract a component to an
individual or firm or entity, or associate itself with another firm or entity. In hiring the consultant firm,
ES, BEPA and BFD would constitute a single selection committee with representatives from each agency.
ES, BEPA and BFD could each sign the agreed contract with the selected firm, or each sign an individual
contract with the selected firm. BFD would locally recruit and sign contracts with UOK, PFI and AZRI,
and would arrange a contract with WWF for the technical assistance to implement HCNP. BFD would
locally recruit civil engineers.
3.24       Annex 6, Table 2 lists all technical assistance by implementing agency and required
expertise. IDA obtained assurances from GOBal that the implementing agencies would finalize
arrangements and sign contracts for engaging consultants with qualifications and under conditions
acceptable to IDA as follows: (a) by December 31, 1994, ES, BEPA and BFD would internationally
recruit a singlefirm, or consortium offirms to supply the services listed in para 3.22 (a) (fii), (b) (1-v)
and (c) (i,iii and iv) except for assistance from PFI, AZRI and UOK, (b) by December 31, 1994, BFD
would locally recruit and sign contracts with: (i) PFI and A2Rlfor assistance with ZJFC; (ii) AZWIfor
assistance with RWRP; and (iii) UOKfor assistance with SDS; (c) by December 31, 1994, BFD would
sign a contract with WWF to supply the services listed in para 3.22 (c)(ii); and (d) by December 31,
1994, BFD would sign a contract with a localfirm of civil engineers to design the water supply at Mazri
Shores.
Project Phasing
3.25       ES, BEPA and BFD would implement project works during the five and a quarter years
from March 1994 to June 1999. Annex 7 shows key dates for activities crucial to project implem,ent
during the first two project years. These activities include engaging consultants, recruiting agency staff,
initiating ES and BEPAs' work programs, undertaking diagnostic surveys and establishing tree nurseries.



- 28 -
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
Cost Estimates
3.26       The total estimated project cost is US$17.8 million, of which US$5.4 million (30%) is the
foreign exchange costs. Project costs are expressed in January 1994 prices, and include duties and taxes
esthmated at US$0.9 million. Base cost estimates were derived from detailed cost analyses of recent
GOBal agency operations, including reforestation, soil erosion control, sand dune stabilization, staff
training programs, construction contracts and vehicle and equipment purchases. Contract quantities for
building construction are based on standard govenunent designs. Consultant service costs are based on
recent contracts for similar services in Balochistan and Pakistan. The cost estimates include allowances
for physical contingencies of 15% for civil works and 10% for machinery, equipment and materials.
Additionally, the cost estimates include allowances for price escalations during implementation based on
IDA's estimated domestic and foreign inflation rates as shown in Table 3.1
Table 3.1: Anua Iflation Rates (%)
FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FYl9   FY99
Domesfic Costs                 8.0   6.5   6.5   6.5   6.5   6.5
International Costs            1.3   1.8   2.8   3.3   3.3   3.3
3.27       Table 3.2 summarizes project costs while Annex 1, Tables I to 3 give details of these costs.



- 29 -
Table 3.2: ProJect Cost Summary
Foreig
Local  Foreig    Totl   Local   Foreign Total  Exchange
(PRs mmion)            (US$ mllion)            (%)
Institutional Dev         37.5   63.5   101.0       1.2    2.1       3.3    64
Sand Dune Stab.          157.5   40.1   197.6       5.2     1.3      6.5    20
H/C Nat. Park             18.1   16.7    34.8       0.6    0.6       1.2    50
Rangeland Rehab.          11.4    4.0    15.4       0.4    0.1       0.5    20
Ziarat Jun. Forest        86.1   24.8   110.9       2.8     0.8      3.6    22
Total Baseline Costs     310.6  149.1   459.7      10.2    4.9    15.1    32
Physical Conit.           38.4    9.8    48.2       1.3    0.3       1.6    19
Price Contingencies       60.7   19.8    80.5       0.9    0.2       1.1    18
Total Project Costs      409.7  178.7   588.4      12.4    5.4    17.8    30
Financing
3.28      Table 3.3 shows the proposed project financing plan. IDA, GOBal and local community
farmers and households would jointly finance the project. IDA would provide a credit of SDR 10.7
million (US$14.7 million), local communities and households Rs 19.8 million (US$0.6 million), all of
which would be in labor, and GOBal the remaining Rs 82.7 million (US$2.5 million). IDA's credit
would finance 83% of project costs, including 100% of foreign exchange costs and 75% of local costs.
Excluding duties, taxes and community farmers and household contributions, IDA would finance 90%
of project costs. Community farmers and households would finance a portion of the costs for shade,
fuelwood and fruit tree development. GOBal would provide its share of project finances to the
implementing agencies ES, BEPA and BFD out of annual budget appropriations. The federal Ministry
of Finance will allocate the project credit funds to GOBal as part of GOBal's annual development
expenditurefunds. FudlapprovalbytheExecutve CommitteeoftheNationalEconomic Council (ECNEC)
of the project's Planning Commission Forms No. 1 (PC-i) and sanctioning of project expenditures is a
condition of credit effectiveness.



- 30-
Table 3.3: Project FinanIdg Plau
(US$ 0il1on)W
Category                  GOBal  Households    IDA    Total Funds
Civil Works                        0.1       -          1.1         1.2
Forest Works                       0.8       0.6       7.5         8.9
Fieldwork                          0.1       -          1.2         1.3
Vehicles                           0.2       -         0.3         0.5
Machin, Equip, Mater               0.2       -         0.4         0.6
Technical Assistance               0.1       -          1.6         1.7
Studies                            -         -         0.6         0.6
Foreign Training                   -         -         0.6         0.6
Local Training                     -         -         0.1          0.1
Mass Awareness                     -         -         0.4          0.4
Increm Salaries                    0.3       -         0.6         0.9
Inrem Operating Costs              0.7       -         0.3          1.0
Total                       2.5       0.6       14.7        17.8
I/    Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$0.9 million, and financing amounts are
rounded to the nearest US$100,000.
E. Procurement
3.29       Table 3.4 summarizes the project's procurement arrangements, while the following
paragraphs describe them in more detail.



-31 -
Table 3.4: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ mUllons)w
Procurement Method              Total
Project Element              ICB    LCB  Other   NBFb'   Cost
Civil Works                                1.2                        1.2
(1.1)                     (1.1)
Forest Works                                        8.3    0.6        8.9
(7.5)             (7-5)
Fieldwork                                           1.3               1.3
(1.2)            (1-2)
Vehicles                            0.5                               0.5
(0.3)                             (0.3)
Mach, Equip & Materials             0.3    0.1      0.2               0.6
(0.2)   (0.1)    (0.1)            (0.4)
Technical Assistance
Proj Preparation & Implementation                  1.1               1.1
(1.0)            (1.0)
histitutional Development                          0.6               0.6
(0.6)             (0.6)
Studies
Policy Support                                     0.3               0.3
(0.3)             (0-3)
Project Preparation                                0.3               0.3
(0.3)            (0.3)
Foreign Training                                    0.6               0.6
(0.6)            (0.6)
Local Training                                      0.1               0.1
(0.1)            (0. 1)
Mass Awareness                                      0.4               0.4
(0.4)            (0-4)
Increm Salaries                                     0.9               0.9
(0.6)            (0.6)
Increm Operating CostsS'                            1.0               1.0
(0.3)            (0-3)
Total                        0.8    1.3    15.1    0.6         17.8
(0.5)   (1.2)   (13.0)           (14.7)
/V    Includes taxes, duties and contigencies. Figures are rounded to the nearest
US$100,000. pigues in parntes  are the respective amounts financed by the
IDA Credit.
bI    Not Bank-Group financed.
£1    IDA financing would be limited to operational and maintenance expenditures on
vehicles and civil works.



- 32 -
3.30       Civil Works (US$1.2 millon). Civil works would include the construction of staff offices,
houses, garages and other buildings, fencing around the Hazarganji-Chiltan national park and in the Ziarat
juniper areas, and access road construction. All the works would be scattered, small, and simple in
nature, and would not be of interest to foreign contractors. These works would be packaged so as to
maximize contract size, but with a minimum contract value of US$40,000 equivalent, and undertaken
following local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable to IDA. In undertaking LCB
procedures, the implementing agencies would use IMA's sample bidding documents for the procurement
of smaller works (issued September 1992).
3.31            Forest Works (US$8.3 million). Forest works include the producing of tree
seedlings for timber, fuelwood, sand dune stabilization and shade, and the planting and care of the
seedlings, including constructing forest tracks and paths. Since many of the forest works areas are remote
and climatically severe, and the nature of the work requires close supervision by expertly trained forest
staff, BFD would execute for-st works by force account. Local community households would assist BFD
with the planting and care of some of the fuelwood and shade seedlings.
3.32            Field Works (US$1.3 million). Field works would include soil conservation works
(gully plugging, check dams, contour ripping, planting of vegetative hedges) pasture establishment,
adaptive research trials and demonstration plots. These works would also be small and scattered,
undertaken at many sites, and in several instances requiring close supervision by departnental staff, for
example, forestry and agricultural adaptive trials. For these reasons BFD would execute field works by
force account.
3.33            Vehides, Motorcycles, Equipment, Fuiture and Technical Books (US$1.1
minlion). Vehicles (US$0.5 million), motorcycles (US$0.1 million) and tractors and implements (US$0.2
million) would be procured through a single contract, or contracts grouped into one package, using
intenational competitive bidding (ICB) procedures consistent with guidelines for procurement under IDA
credits. A preference limited to 15% of the cif bid price or the actual customs duty applicable to non-
exempt importers, whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified local manufacturers in the
evaluation of ICB bids. The procuring agencies would use IDA's standard ICB bidding documents for
goods. The remaining equipment, machinery and furniture would be needed at different places, various
times and in small quantities, and would not attract foreign bidders. Pollution measuring equipment
which could be packaged into contracts of US$50,000 equivalent or more would be procured through
LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. The total value of items to be procured through LCB would be
limited to an aggregate of US$0.1 million. Goods costing less than US$50,000 equivalent could be
procured through local or international shopping (minimum three quotations). The total value of items
to be procured through shopping would be limited to an aggregate US$0.2 million. In addition, technical
books and journals (US$10,000) may be purchased directly from suppliers.
3.34            Consultant Services, Studies, Traing and Mass Awareness. Consultant services
(US$1.7 million) and studies (US$0.6 million) would be procured according to IDA Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants, and foreign and local training arrangements (US$0.7 million) would be subject to
IDA approval. Mass awareness expenditures (US$0.4 million), comprising art work, videos, films and
other publicity materials, would be procured following normal GOBal practices subject to IDA approval.
Project expenditures on incremental operating costs (US$1.9 million, including salaries and allowances;
operating and maintenance costs of vehicles, equipment, and civil works; and administrative overheads)
would also be procured following normal government procedures. IDA, however, would only disburse



- 33 -
against incremental staff salaries, and operational and maintenance expenditures for vehicles and civil
works.
3.35             IDA would review contract documentation before tendering and award for all
contracts costing US$125,000 equivalent or more for civil works and US$50,000 equivalent or more for
goods and mass awareness services. These reviews would cover about 70% of the value of civil works
and 75% of goods and mass awareness services. Bank staff would selectively post-review some 10% of
the awarded contracts which are below these threshold levels. P&D, BEPA and BFD would be
responsible for procuring all civil works and goods under the project. BEPA, which is part of the
Balochistan Department of Urban Planning and Development (BUPD), would use the Quetta Development
Authority, BUPD's civil works construction wing, to assist procure and implement civil works. P&D
and BFD have had considerable experience in procurement, and could easily undertake the procurement
required under the project. Annex 8 details the procurement implementation schedule.
F. Disbursements
3.36            The credit would be disbursed over six and a quarter years, with the credit closing
June 30, 2000. There are no actual disbursement profiles for natural resource management projects in
Pakistan with which to compare the proposed disbursement schedule (Annex 1, Table 4). However, it
is less than the eight years standard disbursement profile for all Pakistan agricultural projects. This is
appropriate as the project is small, simple in design, and would be implemented in only one province.
3.37            IDA would disburse credit funds at the following rates for these items:
Category                         Percent to be Financed
(i)    Civil, forest, and field works         90% of expenditures
(ii)   Vehicles,  motorcycles,  equipment,     100% of foreign expenditures,
furniture and technical books           100%  of ex-factory prices of locally
manufactured items,
70% of local costs for imported items
purchased locally
(iii)   Consultant services, studies and foreign  100% of expenditures less taxes
training
(iv)   Mass awareness and local training       100% of expenditures less tafes
(v)   Incremental  staff  salaries  and        80%  till US$0.32 million disbursed;
allowances, and operating costs        then  70%   until US$0.60  million
disbursed; then 50% thereafter
3.38             IDA would disburse against certified statements of expenditure (SOE) for: (a) civil
works contracts below US$125,000 equivalent; (b) goods and mass awareness services below US$50,000
equivalent; and (c) training, forest works, field works, and incremental staff salaries, allowances and
operating costs. Implementing agencies would retain supporting documentation for these items for review



- 34 -
by IDA and external auditors. Disbursement applications for all other items would be fully documented.
Annex I, Table 5 shows the allocation of credit funds to the different disbursement categories.
3.39            To facilitate timely project implementation, P&D would open a special account for
IDA project funds with the National Bank of Pakistan with an authorized allocation of US$0.7 million.
This account would be used for both local and foreign expenditures of less than US$100,000 equivalent
under all categories. All expenditures above US$100,000 could be submitted directly to IDA for payment
without using funds from the special account. P&D will reimburse each implementing agency as
appropriate from the special account after the implementing agency has made project expenditures. P&D
would submit applications for replenishment of the account to IDA on a broadly monthly basis (minimum
replenishment US$50,000) or earlier if the account falls below 50% of its allocation.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.40            Implementing agencies would maintain identifiable project accounts which independent
auditors, acceptable to IDA and using procedures satisfactory to IDA, would audit annually. The auditors
would issue separate opinions on the project accounts, disbursements from the special account, and SOEs
and supporting documents used as a basis for disbursements from the credit. Implementing agencies
would provide their auditors unaudited project accounts within three months of the fiscal year's end (by
September 30), and would submit an audit report of project accounts to IDA within nine months of the
fiscal year's end (by March 31). IDA obtained assurancesfrom GOBal that implementing agencies would
follow these auditing practices.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Management
General
4.1             P&D (through ES), BEPA and BFD together would be responsible for implementing
the project. ES would be IDA's main contact regarding project implementation, and BEPA and BFD
would keep ES informed concerning progress with their project components. As ES is a new agency,
GOBal would establish a project steering committee to assist in coordinating the agencies' project
implementation work. The additional Chief Secretary, P&D, would chair the committee which would
include, among others, the Secretaries of Finance, Urban Planning and Development and Forests. The
steering committee would meet twice a year, or more often if necessary, to review project
implementation. ES would act as the committee's secretariat, and would prepare its agenda and monitor
its decisions. IDA obtained an assurance from GOBal that P&D would establish the project steering
committee by September 30, 1994.
P&D's Role
4.2             P&D would be responsible for establishing ES and developing its work programs.
GOBal proposes that ES becomes the main agency coordinating environmental matters within Balochistan,
and will be responsible for formulating environmental policy, legislation and regulations. Under the
project ES would train and develop its staff; review GOBal's development proposals with regard to



- 35 -
environmental issues; undertake policy studies concerning environmental pollution and natural resource
management; and prepare feasibility studies for future natural resource management projects. In
particular, ES would review and monitor natural resource management, and initiate the design and
introduction of improved natural resource use policies when necessary. While P&D's Additional Chief
Secretary would be ultimately responsible for these components, ES's Director General would be the
overall manager, and ES's two sub-sections would plan and implement project work programs.
4.3              ES would liaise with IDA concerning project implementation, and would monitor
overall project progress. It would prepare and submit to IDA half-yearly project reports (including inputs
from BEPA and BFD) which would update and assess implementation of project components during the
previous six months. ES and IDA would agree on the report format by end-June 1994, and ES would
forward the reports to IDA within two months from the end of each six-month period, beginning with
the semester ending December 31, 1994. ES would ensure that all credit disbursement applications are
sent to IDA. Within six months of credit completion, ES would contribute to a project completion report,
reporting on all aspects of project implementation.
BEPA's Role
4.4              BEPA, an organization within BUPD, would be responsible for eyvanding and
strengthening its staff and initiating new work programs. BEPA would be mainly a regt dtory agency,
and would be responsible for measuring and monitoring pollutant discharges, lerally enforcing
national/provincial environmental quality standards, assisting design and implement EIA procedures, and
implementing mass awareness programs. BEPA's Director General would be the overall manager for
this work, while BEPA's three sub-sections and publicity unit would plan and implement project work
programs.
4.5              Both ES and BEPA, using the technical assistance which the project would provide,
would refine and develop their individual work programs as they get them underway, and throughout the
project's life. To ensure the continued relevance and sustainability of these two groups, IDA obtained
an assurance that, by December 31, 1998, P&D, BEPA and IDA together would review the staffing and
effectiveness of ES and BEPA and agree which staff (higher-level and support) should be made permanent
after project completfon, that is, fundedfrom the province's non-development budget.
Strengthening BFID and Natural Resource Rehabihtation Subprojects
4.6              BFD would be responsible for strengthening its own operations, and for implementing
the four natural resource rehabilitation operations/pilot programs. While BFD's Chief Conservator would
be the overall manager of these components, BFD's senior field staff in the various project areas would
be the day-to-day subproject managers. The following sections describe the subproject's management in
more detail:
(a)   SDS. The Conservator of Forests Khuzdar will be responsible for implementing
SDS. BFD will make a new DFO position at Gwadar, and entrust this officer with
the subproject's day-to-day management. The two existing FRs stationed at Pasni
and Gwadar will assist this DFO. The Gwadar FR will also cover project works at
Pishukan. To cope with the additional project work, BFD would increase the
number of FOs by four from eight to 12, and FGs also by four from 21 to 25 (see



- 36-
Annex 2, Table 3). Besides internationally recruiting technical assistance to assist
with subproject implementation, BFD would engage UOK to undertake research on
sand dune stabilization;
(b)  HCNP. The Conservator of Forests Quetta will be responsible for implementing
HCNP, with the DFO (Wildlife) stationed at Quetta as subproject director or
manager. BFD will appoint a new Curator to run the proposed Visitors Center.
Support staff (drivers, attendants, sweepers) would be the only other incremental staff
the subproject would hire. BFD would engage WWF to supply the required
tecnnical assistance to implement HCNP.
(c)   RWRP. The Conservator of Forests Quetta will be responsible for implementing
RWRP, with the various DFOs within whose jurisdiction RWRP plants atriplex trials
acting as the day-to-day subproject managers. BFD would engage AZRI to assist it
plan and implement this subproject. Most importantly, AZRI would monitor,
analyze, evaluate, and report on the results of the subproject; and
(d)  ZJFC. The Conservator of Forests Quetta will be responsible for implementing
ZJFC, with DFO at Ziarat as the subproject director.  BFD will rearrange
administrative boundaries to place juniper areas presently within DFO Loralai's work
jurisdiction under the control of DFO Ziarat. To assist with the additional work
under the subproject, BFD would provide the following incremental positions: one
DFO Research, two FRs, four FOs, and five FGs, plus additional support staff (see
Annex 5, Table 1). The DFO Research will assist DFO Ziarat undertake the
subproject's research component on new species of grasses, shrubs, and fuelwood,
fodder and timber trees; mistletoe control in juniper; and prepare a management plan
for the juniper forest. BFD would also engage PFI and AZRI to assist with the
diagnostic survey, prepare the juniper forest management plan and design the
subproject's adaptive research and trials.
Civil Works and Equipment Procurement
4.7              Both BEPA and BFD would undertake their respective civil works by contract. BFD
has the experience and expertise to supervise the construction of small civil works. BEPA, however,
would use the Quetta Development Authority, BUPD's construction wing to review designs, assist
contract and supervise construction of its civil works. ES, BEPA and BED would jointly procure, using
international competitive bidding procedures, vehicles, motorcycles, and tractors and implements. They
would individually procure all other equipment and materials.
B. Community Involvement, Development and Contribution
4.8              The project provides for BFD to involve the local communities in project design and
implementation, and to develop and strengthen local organizations and skills. This is vital for the
subproject's success because it would help internalize to the extent possible external costs associated with
natural resource use, and would improve the conmunities' capabilities to undertake a larger role in local
development. The project provides for these needs in several ways. For example, to involve local
communities in project design and implementation, under RWRP and ZJFC multi-disciplinary teams



- 37 -
containing local staff and internationally and locally recruited experts, using rapid rural appraisal
techniques, would undertake diagnostic surveys to identify the community groups with whom project staff
should work (for example, sub-watershed committees, village committees, farm families), farming
systems, socio-economic groupings, and production and community problems. The team, with the local
community and any local NGOs, would prioritize these problems, and community goals and aspirations.
If necessary, following the initial diagnostic survey, the teamn would further investigate those problems
requiring additional study to fully understand and solve. The team and the local community would then
develop and agree to an action plan, taking account of priority problems, community and national goals,
and the local resource base and skills. These procedures are similar to those already used in Pakistan and
Thailand under agricultural research and extension projects to develop on-farm research and agricultural
extension programs. They include large elements of the procedures AKRSP uses in northern Pakistan
to organize community participation. Resource management projects in Mexico and Algeria have also
used these procedures. Again, all the subprojects would employ local sociologists who, along with any
suitable local NGOs, would interface between the development agencies and the communities. The
sociologists would also help organize and strengthen local groups and assist them in their dealings with
the implementing agencies. The Dutch assisted Malakand Social Forestry Project in the Swat Valley,
NWFP, is using this procedure. Both SDS and ZJFC provide for publicity campaigns to inform
communities and local officials about the subprojects. Under SDS the sociologist would assist design the
individual and family tree planting prog.ams, and ensure that communities needs and desires are
incorporated into them. Whenever possible under the subprojects, BFD will train farmers, other
individuals, or groups, to produce tree seedlings and then contract with them to supply seedlings for
project works. Such groups could include secondary school children and women's associations. To
ensure adequate local community involvement in subproject planning, design and implementation, IDA
has obtained an assurancefrom GOBal that BFD shall, before commencing any programs under thefour
subprojects, take suitable steps to identify the community groups that would participate in such programs
and agree with them on the necessary action plans to carny out these programs.
4.9              Besides involvement in project design and implementation, however, local
communities should contribute to the rehabilitation of natural resources from which they will receive
benefits. For example, community groups and households will be expected to assist plant and care for
the shade, fuelwood and fruit trees which the subprojects will provide. Under SDS, the communities will
provide 100% of the labor required to plant and care for the 60,000 shade, fuelwood and orchard
seedlings which SDS would distribute for planting around homes and within towns. Under RWRP,
farmers will water (to the extent necessary) and maintain atriplex plantings, while under ZJFC community
groups will provide about 50% of the labor to plant and care for the fuelwood plantations established on
BFD land, and farmers 100% of the labor to plant and care for 100,000 fuelwood seedlings planted on
farms and around homesteads and villages. Despite this community input, seedlings and atriplex plants
would still be subsidized (BFD would supply seedlings at no cost). This subsidy, however, is justified
for two reasons, that is, because of positive externalities resulting from the plantings and to encourage
people to adopt the technology. Community assistance in tree planting and care has been used in several
projects in Pakistan, including the Malakand Social Forestry Project and Integrated Hill Farming
Development Project.



- 38 -
C. Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision
4.10             Monitoring. Monitoring of subprojects would be "management oriented", that is,
designed to provide information to assist internal project management. BFD would monitor and analyze
subproject activities at three levels, that is, subproject inputs (number of staff, vehicles, materials
procured and so on), outputs (area afforested, soil erosion works) and effects or success in meeting
subproject objectives. To monitor subproject effects, staff would select a few easily identified and
measurable indicators. Besides management, BFD staff would provide monitoring results to ES. The
project would provide BFD internationally (3 sm) and locally (6 sm) recruited monitoring and evaluation
specialists to assist design and implement appropriate monitoring systems for all four subprojects.
4.11             Project Lamnch Workshop. To facilitate project start-up, IDA along with ES,
BEPA, and BFD would organize and hold a project launch workshop soon after credit signing. The
workshop would familiarize project implementation staff with project objectives, components and other
administrative aspects.
4.12             Evaluation. ES, BEPA, BFD, IDA (with technical assistance from FAO Country
Programs) and appropriate NGOs would undertake a mid-term review of the overall project, and the
individual subprojects. 1DA has obtained assurances from GOBal that ES, BEPA and BFD, in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA, and jointly with IDA and observers from
appropriate NGOs, would undertake a mid-term review of the overall project and individual subprojects
by no later than September 30, 1996, and would produce a report identifying any required changes in
projea cimplementation with which the project agencies would comply.
4.13             IDA Supervision. While the project would require slightly more than average
supervision during its initial two years, from then on it should only require normal supervision inputs.
This slightly higher supervision input, while the implementing agencies are hiring their technical
assistance, finalizing designs and initiating work programs, is justified because of the project's importance
in initiating institutional, policy and program development in Balochistan's natural resource management.
Annex 9 contains a proposed supervision plan for IDA, which details the required annual staff inputs and
expected skill requirements needed on supervision missions. During the project's first full implementation
year (July 1994 to June 1995), IDA would use approximately 19 sw for all supervision activities, 16 sw
in the second year, and about 14 sw for the remaining years. During supervision IMA staff should pay
particular attention to the agencies quickly recruiting additional project staff and procuring technical
assistance, ES and BEPA establishing the responsibilities and work programs of their new sections, BFD
staff appropriately interacting with local communities, and adopting a multi-disciplinary approach to
subproject implementation. Annex 9 also contains some possible key indicators of project implementation
progress which supervision missions should monitor.
V. BENEFTh, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
5.1              Project benefits would include those resulting from the institutional strengthening of
ES, BEPA and BFD, and those arising from the development of the natural resource rehabilitation
subprojects. Benefits from sensitizing Balochistan's policymakers and public to environmental issues,



- 39 -
and from improving natural resource use policies and thus reducing externalities arising from market and
policy failure would fall within these benefits. Benefits from institutional strengthening would broadly
include two categories: (a) those arising from an enhanced capability within Balochistan to plan and
implement environmentally sound natural resource development; and (b) improved public health through
the implementation of environmental policies regulating standards of air, water and soil pollution. For
the first category, the subprojects may be viewed as exercises developing Balochistan's experience in the
management of land and water resources, apart from their worth in their own contexts. The outcomes
of the subprojects may then represent the type of specific, local benefits expected in the future as a result
of the institutional strengthening. As for the second category, a healthier population may have its fullest
expression on the macro-economic level with a more productive labor force and a smaller burden on
health-care costs. These benefits cannot presently be quantified, but they should be measurable over time.
5.2              Benefits from the natural resource rehabilitation subprojects include the following:
(a)   Sand Dune Stabilization -   protect houses, public buildings,
on the Mekran Coast         infrastructure and fishing industry facilities from
sand damage;
-     preserve livelihood of fishermen and ancillary
workers;
-     increase fuelwood, timber and orchard production;
-     improve the general habitat or living conditions in
and around the local towns;
-     decrease sand-borne disease and sickness;
-     reclaim soils as vegetative cover and humus builds
u );
-      ;quire scientific data on sand dune fixation;
(b)   Hazarganji-Chiltan    -     improve wildlife habitat and
National Park Development    enviromnent;
-     improve bio-diversity conservation;
-     improve wildlife educational facilities;
-     improve natural habitat recreational and tourist
facilities;
-     improve and strengthen BFD staff capabilities to
manage wildlife and national park areas;
(c)   Rangeland/Watershed   -     increase fodder production resulting
Rehabilitation              in increased livestock production and farmer
income;
-     improve water infiltration and aquifer recharge;
-     decrease soil erosion and rangeland degradation;
-     increase fuelwood production; and
(d)   Ziarat Juniper        -     preserve a rare forest environment
Forest Conservation         for Pakistan and the world;



- 40 -
reduce soil erosion, surface runoff and flooding,
and improve water infiltration, aquifer recharge and
spring production;
preserve and improve recreational and tourist
opportunities;
increase fuelwood, timber and fodder production
leading to higher commnunity incomes; and
acquire data on resource development in juniper
area.
5.3              Because the information does not yet exist to quantify many of the subprojects'
environmental effects, the economic analyses mainly considered production benefits (for example,
increased fuelwood, timber and fodder production) and preservation benefits or consumer surplus as a
measure of recreational benefits. Total benefits from the subprojects are therefore likely to be
underestimated. In the initial stages of implementation, project staff will select indicators for regular
monitoring of environmental impacts. This information should aid final assessment of the subprojects,
and facilitate future project planning.
5.4              The project's implementation would lead to an increase in net employment in some
areas. For other areas proposed activities may release labor. Ideally, the release of labor from one area
of employment would allow other areas to expand, provided that labor is mobile and other technical
conditions are right. For Balochistan, one can expect that the economic consequences of increased or
decreased labor demand induced by the project would vary regionally. There may also be environental
consequences to shifts in the demand and supply of labor. Moreover, these consequences may counter
economic outcomes. The presumption here in the analyses of subproject benefits is that labor cost
savings would neither increase net rural underemployment nor hurt overall welfare nor appreciably affect
environmental conditions.
5.5              The economic analyses use border prices for major tradable commodities derived
from World Bank projections of cif or fob values adjusted for local handling and transportation costs to
the farm gate. The economic price for fuelwood was derived on the basis of its equivalent kerosene
content. The domestic price for fuelwood was found largely to correspond with its border price
equivalent. A Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.9 was used for converting the domestic prices of
non-tradable or minor tradable commodities into their border price equivalents. All values are in constant
September 1993 prices, and the economic analyses were conducted over 20 years.
5.6              The economic analyses showed that the four subprojects should generate at least the
economic internal rates of return (ERR) shown below. In some instances, particularly for SDS, the actual
ERR could be considerably higher.



- 41 -
Economic Internal
Subproject                           Rate of Retum
(%)
Sand Dune Stabilization                        10
Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park               10
Rangeland/Watershed Rehabilitation             15
Ziarat Juniper Forest Conservation             15
Annex 10 describes the basis of these estimates. An overall project rate of return has not been calculated
because of the difficulty of quantifying benefits from the institutional strengthening and other preparatory
work included among project costs. The performance of the subprojects is not overly sensitive to
variations in costs and benefits.
B. Environmental Effects
5.7             The proposed project has been reviewed under the provisions of the Bank-Group
Operational Directive 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), and placed in Category B. The following
paragraphs list the results of an environmental review to assess the significance of environmental effects
resulting from project activities, and to determine measures to enhance environmental management in the
project areas.
5.8             Institutionally, the project would have the beneficial effect of establishing ES and
upgrading BEPA so that GOBal can deal with environmental protection and natural resource management
in a systematic and planned manner. It would increase GOBal's capabilides to formulate environmental
policy, and to introduce that policy into public and private development. It would strengthen BFD's
capabilities to manage natural resources, and to work with local communities and introduce their
participation into natural resource development planning and implementation.
5.9             SDS activities would mainly plant trees to stabilize sand dunes, provide fuelwood,
and give shade and reduce sand movement in the coastal towns. The tree plantings would improve the
habitat or living conditions for local inhabitants, providing positive externalities. SDS will not introduce
any new exotic tree or pasture species, thus any possible harmful effects from new species would be
avoided. HCNP civil works and soil conservation operations would be designed to blend into the natural
landscape and not to mar the beauty of the wilderness area. Sightseers would hike through the area,
keeping mainly to defined trails. Before introducing any new species to the park, staff would carefully
research ant. review the possible results of such actions.
5.10            Under RWRP the atriplex plantings will help stabilize the soil, reduce erosion, and
improve water infiltration into the soil. When planting atriplex on slopes, project staff will rip the area
along the contour thus minimizing water run-off from newly planted areas. Livestock grazing of atriplex
areas would be managed to reduce soil erosion and promote the maximum possible soil vegetation cover.
Under ZJFC, local communities would cut the future shrub fuelwood plantations by hand with minimal
machine use. BFD would advise the communities on harvesting methods with the least harnful
environmental effects. ZJFC civil works consist of small offices and houses whose construction would
not entail deep excavations or other possible harmful soil movement/water run-off effects. The proposed
ZJFC soil conservation works would do much to stabilize the landscape and improve water infiltration
into the soil and aquifers. BFD would design access roads and tracks with adequate drainage and



- 42 -
treatment of slopes to avoid erosion. Zoning of the forest area, plus establishment of the fuelwood
plantations, would reduce livestock grazing and fuelwood collection pressure on forested areas.
C. Risks
5.11             Major possible risks to implementing the various project components include: (a) ES
and BEPA may be unable to recruit suitably qualified staff; (b) the harsh climatic conditions on the
Mekran coast may slow SDS implementation and adversely impact its ERR, and the use of only one tree
specie for sand dune fixation increases the risk of plantation failure due to disease; (c) GOBal may be
unable to prevent the Marri tribespeople, who some 12 months ago camped outside the eastern boundary
of the Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park, from continuing to illegally enter the park area to collect
firewood and graze livestock; (d) under RWRP the establishment costs of Atriplex canescens may be too
high for it to be economically attractive to farmers; and (e) under ZJFC local communities may not accept
zoning of forested areas, and the community fuelwood plantations may be technically infeasible.
5.12             ES and BEPA. While ES and BEPA will have difficulty recruiting suitably
experienced and trained staff for environmental work, it will be able to recruit university graduates with
technical, economic or sociological backgrounds. The project will provide internationally recruited
technical assistance which will undertake skill gap analyses for ES and BEPA staff, and then design and
inplement considerable on-the-job training. The project would also provide for foreign short and long-
term training to further develop staff capabilities.
5.13             SDS. Currently SDS plans to plant 5,000 ha of trees over four years to stabilize sand
dunes, with an initial year used for establishing nurseries and producing seedlings. The project launch
workshop, which IDA, ES, BEPA and BFD will hold soon after credit signing, will emphasize and
promote early nursery establishment. However, even if tree planting does fall behind schedule, the total
area to be planted is small, and it should be possible to considerably expand the proposed annual plantings
in the project's later years. Additionally, potential economic benefits from these works are large, and
a planting slippage will have little effect on the final ERR.
5.14             Since the late 1970s BFD has planted Prosopis juliflora on the Mekran coast to
stabilize sand dunes. To date diseases have not attached these plantations. Nevertheless additional
suitable species must be found to lessen the danger of losing such plantations. UOK has already worked
for five years identifying other suitable species. SDS would provide for UOK to undertake adaptive
research of these species, and, amongst other things, further specie and seedling trials to widen the specie
base for sand dune stabilization.
5.15             HCNP. GOBal sees the camping of the Marri tribespeople near the park as a short-
term phenomenon. These people, who are recently returned from Afghanistan, are currently settled at
the site because of an inter-tribal dispute, but should eventually return to their tribal lands. In the
meantime GOBal has deployed levies (tribal military personnel) to assist BFD staff regulate access to the
park. More irnportantly the project would provide a sociologist who would interface between BFD and
the tribespeople, and GOBal and IDA have agreed that, if necessary, BFD will not implement the
proposed park development plan until it provides for a solution to the issue satisfactory to IDA.
5.16             RWVRP. To ensure that the results of this pilot program can be properly interpreted,
AZRI will monitor all atriplex plantings and record all establishment costs and production benefits. To



- 43 -
the extent possible, planting operations will be varied to obtain data concerning a possible least cost
approach. At project completion AZRI should be able to advise on the economic, sociologic and
technical feasibility of this program.
5.17             ZJFC. To ensure conununity acceptance of the works, ZJFC, as do the other
subprojects, allows for meaningful community participation in designing the component activities,
including formulating the proposed forest zones. The working arrangements for this include awareness
programs, diagnostic studies, "round-table" conferences between BFD and the communities, and
employment of local sociologists to act as social organizers and interface between BFD and the
conununities.
5.18             Because of the harsh growing conditions in the Ziarat area, particularly the high
altitude (around 2,500 m) and short growing season, the proposed community fuelwood plantations may
grow too slowly to be feasible alternative sources of fuelwood for the communities. To minmmize this
risk, ZJFC will mainly plant fast growing, woody shrubs, and will locate the plantations at the lowest
possible elevations. BFD has identified one large site at 1,500 m. The mid-term review will evaluate
the progress of these plantations and advise on any necessary changes in the program.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1              During negotiations IDA reached agreement with GOBal on the following points:
(a)   By September 30, 1994, P&D would recruit and place the balance of ES's staff, that
is, one Director, one Assistant Director, and four Research Assistants (BPS-16), plus
the remaining required support staff (para 3.4);
(b)   By September 30, 1994, BEPA would hire two Assistant Directors (BPS-17), one
Administrative Officer, two Publicity Officers (BPS-16), and the necessary support
staff (para 3.5);
(c) BFD would hire one Visitor's Center Curator, two Forest Rangers (FRs) (BPS-16),
eight Foresters (FOs) (BPS-6), nine Forest Guards (FGs) (BPS-2), and the necessay
support staff, by no later than September 30, 1994 (para 3.8);
(d)   ES would: (i) submit proposals for studies to IDA for review and approval before
commepcing them; (ii) engage consultants with qualifications and under conditions
acceptable to IDA for undertaking the studies; and (iii) by June 30, 1996:
a) complete the study to develop technical criteria for regulating access to
Balochistan's aquifers; and b) have drafted appropriate legislation and ordinances
(para 3.11);
(e)  that during July 1, 1994 to January 1, 1997 GOBal agencies would eliminate, in
three stages, all subsidies they provide when drilling tubewells, that is, by no later
than July 1, 1994 reduce the drilling subsidies to 70% of the level at which they
stood on July 1, 1993; by no later than July 1, 1995 to 40% of this level; by no later



-44 -
than July 1, 1996 to 10% of this level, and by January 1, 1997 completely eliminate
all drilling subsidies (para 3.12);
(f)   BFD would submit its PMP for Hazarganji-Chiltan national park to IDA for review
and approval before commencing to implement it (para 3.16);
(g)  ES, BEPA and BFD would furnish any proposals for training under the project to
IDA for its prior review and approval (para 3.21);
(h)  the implementing agencies would finalize arrangements and sign contracts for
engaging consultants with qualifications and under conditions acceptable to IDA as
follows: (i) by December 31, 1994, ES, BEPA and BFD would internationally recruit
a single firm, or consortium of firms, to supply all services listed in para 3.22(a)(i-
ii), (b)(i-v) and (c)(i, iii and iv) except for assistance from PPI, AZRI and UOK; (ii)
by December 31, 1994, BFD would locally recruit and sign contracts with: a) PFI
and AZRI for assistance with ZJFC; b) AZRI for assistance with RWRP; and
c) UOK for assistance with SDS; (iii) by December 31, 1994 BFD would sign a
contract with WWF to supply the services listed in para 3.22(c)(ii); and (iv) by
December 31, 1994 BFD would sign a contract with a local firm of civil engineers
to design the water supply at Mazri Shores (para 3.24);
(i)  implementing agencies would: (i) maintain identifiable project accounts which
independent auditors, acceptable to IDA and using procedures satisfactory to IDA,
would audit annually; (ii) have their auditors issue separate opinions on the project
accounts, disbursements from the special account, and SOEs and supporting
documents used as a basis for disbursements from the credit; (iii) provide their
auditors unaudited project accounts within three months of the fiscal year's end (by
September 30); and (iv) submit an audit report of project accounts to IDA within
nine months of the fiscal year's end (by March 31) (para 3.40);
',)   P&D would establish the project steering committee by September 30, 1994 (para
4.1);
(k)  by December 31, 1998, P&D, BEPA and IDA together would review the staffing
and effectiveness of ES and BEPA and agree which staff (higher-level and support)
should be made permanent after project completion, that is, funded from the
province's non-development budget (para 4.5);
(1)   BFD shall, before commencing any programs under the four subprojects, take
suitable steps to identify the community groups that would participate in such
programs and agree with them on the necessary action plans to carry out these
programs (para 4.8); and
(m)  P&D, BEPA and BFD, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA, and
jointly with IDA and observers from appropriate NGOs, would undertake a mid-term
review of the overall project and individual subprojects by no later than September



-45 -
30, 1996, and would produce a eport identifing any required changes in projec
implementation with which project agencies would comply (pan 4.12).
6.2             The IDA credit would not become effective until ECNEC has approved the project's
PC-I and sanctioned project expendiu  (p;a 3.28).
6.3             With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 10.7 million (US$14.7 million equivalent) on standard terms with a 35 year naturity. The
Borrower would be the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.



ANNEX 1
- 46-                                             Table 1
PAIaSTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estat
project Cost smary
(Rs '0003                                     (UBS1 '000)
*      * tTotal                               I     *.7otal
.oreig    BSase                              foreign    Base
Local   f'oreign   Total   Exchange    Cos%o    Local  Foreign  Total *hange  CostS
1. znvestonat Costs
A. Civil Works                       26,276.8  5,050.4  31,327.2         16         7   S6Z.9   165.9  1,02s.8         16        7
B. Forest Works                      181,319.6  36,800.2 219,119.9       17        41  5,914.7  1,208.5  7,163.2       17       67
C. Fild Wocks                       27,031.9   S432.0  32,464.0        17         7   887.7    178.4  1,066.1        17        7
D. Vehicles                            8,566.6  5,411.1  13,977.7        39         3    201.3   177.7   459.0         39         3
Z. Xbunry r. EnLVtu
.      Y ns                         1,509.0  3,451.2  4,961.0         70         1    4.6   113.3   162.9           70         1
transport                           1,792.2   1,252.5  3,044.7        41          1    58.9    41.1    100.0         41        1
SlEctroniclTechnicel                1,390.7  4,959.5  6,3S0.3         78         1     45.7   162.9   209.5         78         1
Other Matecials/Tools               1.395.5    765.8   2       161.3  35          -     45.8    25.2    71.0        35         -
subtotal wablveoy  8 kquipsnt          6,098.2  10,429.1  16,517.2       83         4    199.9   342.5   542.4         63        4
F. Office Furniture                     s38.8      66.4    607.2         il         -     17.7       2.2    19.9       11         -
G. Publications                           27.3    206.7    234.0         88         -       0.9      4.9      7.7      88         -
R. Studies                                   - 17,300.6  17,300.6       100         4         -   s60.2   568.2        100        4
1. Cootultant S*zv0e
foreign technical Assistance       S,259.9  29,345.2  33,604.0        84         7    172.7   930.9  1,103.6        94        7
Local Services                     14,440.0  2,237.8  16,678.6        13         4    474.2    73.5   547.7         13        4
Subtotal Consultant Servics           19,699.6  30,593.0  50,282.6       61        11    646.9  1,004.4  1,651.3       61        11
J. Sraingq
foreign                                   - 17,206.1  17,206.1       100         6        -    565.1   565.1       100        4
Local                              2,542.3         -   2,542.3         -         1    83.5         -     83.5        -         I
Subtotal raining                       2,542.3  17,206.1  19746.4        97         4    93.5   565.1   649.6          87        4
K. Mass x   aceness Progrm                   - 10 657.5, 65 657.5       100         2        -    350.0   350.0       1o0        2
total 3nt_ant CoI 72,091.1 139,145.1 411,236.1                               34        89  8,935.7  4,569.6 13,805.3       34        $9
g. Ri0owzent Coat
A. tncresentel Staff                  23,626.4         - 23,626.4         -          5   775.9         _ 775,9           -        S
B. Civil Works OY                     2,647.7    213.6  2,661.2          8         1    80.4       7.0    87.4         8         1
C. 1ut*rials/squipmcnt and Tools OA6K  10,889.6  4,902.0  15,790.6       31         3   357.6   161.0   518.6           31        3
0. Vehicle 064                         1,505.4   6,866.9  6,372.2        76          1    49.4   3S9.9   209.3         76         1
Total ReO ot Cost                         3a,6.0  9,902.9  48,40.5           21        11  1,263.3  132.8  1,591.1         21        11
total BASz&=  costS                       310,559.1   149,127.6 459,686.6     32        100 10,199.0  4,097.5 15,096.4      32       100
Physical Contingencies                   38,441.6  9,766.9  46,209.2        20        10  1,162.4   320.7  1,583.2        20       10
Price Contingencies t02:.3  19,791.3  80.493.6                              25        19    669.1   205.3  1.07.4,         19        7
Total  n     cOSTs                        409,702.9 170,685.7 588,398.4       30       128 12,330.   ,42. 17 7540           31      11
Tue Feb 08 11.44:S4 1994
teadIture Acouats by Cposents  - Totalm, Stoludi  Contingencies
(KS '000)
Conservation
tastf,tiou1al neveoneneant                        and         Wildlife and
Balochistan               Sand Dune  Menagnt            Habitat              Pilot
Environintal Balochistin Stabiltzation  of Ziarat   1ZPtrovesac  in  Imtershed/Pa4 eland
Snvioomntal  Protection    Porestry  in Pasni and   Juniper   HaXarganji-Chiltan   Rehabilltition
Ses1t0-,Va    -A ncy    QS2amnL  2adaLkSaL                aft          tioui Park1         Prcera           t
I. Bvestatt Costs
A. Civil Works                                   -       8,976.4    2.063.6        8,809.2      8.239.3           13,943.4                      39.531.9
B. Forest Works                                  -             -           -    232,08.5       67.083.5              366.8                   - 299,935.6
C. Field Works                                                                     7,406.      31,796.0              696.4             7,438.4  42.324.4
0. Vehicles                                2.111.0       2,348.8    1,322.9        3,918.3      3.918.3            2,349.9             1.172.8  16.334.3
z. Ihohieey 6 sqoipient
Farm                                          -                         -      2.311.2       2,324.0              581.0               581.0  5,797.1
Transpor                                      -         582.9           -       1,129.9      1,129.9              722.6                   -  I.SS7.3
Clectronic/Taechbncl                    1,208.0       3,129.2           .       1,40 .0      1,092.2              542.0                       7.366.3
Other Itateriele/Tools                        -             -       21S.S         251.0      4.49,1 ,1.              p               122S0   2.*66.6
Subtotal Weckinecy 6 Uquipuost             1.205.0       3.70.1        375-.5      $,092.1      8,94132            2,2s9.4               906.O  19,387.4
P. Office Furnicure                          227.9         293.0           .         65.1          69.1               6S.1                   _    116.2
G. Publication.                              138.0         140.4           .             -            .                  .                   .    278.4
R. Studies                                18,583.5             -           .             -            .              2714                    - 19.894,
7. Consultant Services
Poreign Technical Assistanee            5,070.0       9,675.2     2.132.5      4,439.7      4,991.3             8,174.8             2.238.2  36.701.8
Local Services                    .. O. . o          .0L .% 4..      23.7  1.4.2.2          c..3  7         ...SSco 0                 144 2  1..S6S.9
Subtotal Cosultant Seylzes                8,471.0      10,728.8    2,536.2        6,703.1    10.125.S            11,724.8             8.392.4  98.71.7
J. training
Poreign                                 8,129.6       5.129.6    3,6S1.0        1,0S2.2     1,319.9             3.35.6                      1 19,833.7
Subtotal rmin"g                            S,406.4       5,634.1    4.3955        1.192.7      2,019.0            4,204.6                      22.651.2
K. Kass Awarenees Progrm                         -      1 L.9              -                             -                                      "filS-69
total Ztvestaet Coets                         33,143.7      43.342.2   10,993.6   237,972.5    126.796.9              35.467.6            17,896.8 527,101.9
Sr. Becunrent Oost
A. Incremntal Staff                        9,600.0       9.14.3           .      4,621.6       6.749.7            2,043.9                      28.331.5
S. Civil Works 066                               -         801.9       108.8        393.3       2.086.9              374.1               189.9  3.,64.8
C. Platerials/Iquipeent and s.cols 06     3,623.4       8.436.4       537.5       1,617.2      3.373.7            2.137.S               502.6  20,8S8.8
D. Vehicle 064                                            .576.1 ,, .AtL2  9.1.1.S         _.   31                                       140 S     t
St" Barrat Costs                         1.2..     1.Z   ..,04 0. .    005              .7...L    13..611.5          6.087,2               1 042 8  6121L1
otl S SOJSCT COSt"                             46,866.6      59,373.1   11,998.8    267,697.3   142,398.4              41.SS9.4            18,939.4 88,288.4
TAxeM                                         2,702.2       5.867.9    1.133.2        5.709.8      6.555.             S.612.9             1.671.6  29,2S3.2
Foreign gxchngce                             10.528.9      33.933.C    7.33C.0       52,471.2    30,661.S            19,020.9             4.736.6 178,69S.7



PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Annual Expenditures by Component
Totals Including Continganci*s (Pe  000)                          totals Including Continganci*s fuSs '000)
91/94     94/95     95/96   _96/97      97/98     98/99     Total   93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99   fotal
A. 1ntitutical Develomant
Inveatnant Costs                            1,540.7  35,805.8  22,509.2  15,136.9  10,062.5  2,023.3  87,078.4      50.6  1,124.6   645.7   449.3   291.1    57.0  2,658.1
R current Costa                             1.3B3.1   4204.5   5,728.7  6,085.4   6,481.8  6,875.5  0,760.1         45.4   132.1   174.6   180.8   187.7   194.0   914.7
Subtotal zn.titutignal Devlopmnt               2,923.8  40,011.3  28,237.9  21,222.3  16,544.3  8,898.8 117,838.5    96.0  1,256.7   860.3   630.1   478.8   257.1  3,S73.0
S. Operational Sbpzo9ects
Sand Dme Stabilisatio                                                                                                                                                          4
in  Pago and Cwadar Areas
Invastment Costs                         3,531.6  43,049.7  59,267.1  70,148.2  62,127.3  19,748.7 257,872.5   116.0  1,352.1  1,805.3  2,082.2  1,797.2    556.6  7,709.4
Recurrent Costs                            432.5   1,366.5  1,811.1   1,920.2  2,053.2  2,201.3  9,784.8    14.2    42.9    55.2    57.0    59.4    62.0   290.7
Subtotal Sand Dme Stabilsation
in Pasni and  Gwadar Area.                3,964.1  44,416.2  61,078.3  72,068.3  64,180.4  21,950.0 267,657.3   130.2  1,395.0  1,860.5  2,139.2  1,856.6   618.7  8,000.1
Conervation and Ibmagaent
of Ziarat juniper Forest
Investment Costs                        7,107.2  41,907.3  30,213.8  30,327.5  18,529.4      701.8 128,786.9   233.4  1,316.2   920.4   900.3   536.3    19.8  3,926.2
Recurrent Costs                            611.0  1.741.3  2,330.1   2.690.4   3.064.9   3,173.8  13,611.5    20.1    54.7    71.0    79.9    88.8    89.7   404.2
Subtotal Conservation and Mnagemet
of Siarat Juniper orest                   7,718.1  43,648.6  32,543.9  33,017.9  21,594.3   3,875.6 142,398.4    253.5  1,370.9   991.4   900.2   624.9   109.5  4,330.3               s
Wildlife and gabitat lovmnt
in  tasarganji-CUltan Ibtional Park
Invastment Costs                          874.2  18,884.4  9,509.8   3,777.9  2,141.5    279.7  35,467.6    28.7   593.1   289.7   112.2    62.0               7.9  1,093.6
Recutrant Coats                            285.4    784.3  1,100.4  1.217.5   1,302.5  1,397.2  6,087.2           9.4     24.6    33.5       6.1    317.7    39.4   180.7
Subtotal Wildlife and Habitat Mproveant
in aI  rgan2hCiltan National Park         1,159.6  19,668.6  10,610.2   4,995.5   3,444.0   1,676.9  41,554.8    38.1   617.8   323.2   148.3    99.6    47.3  1,274.3
pilot Watutabad/Rafteland
Ptababilitation Ptograms
Investment Costs                           883.2  7,066.2  2,058.4   3,990.5  2,013.7   1,084.5  17,896.5    29.0   222.0    87.1   118.5    58.3    30.7   545.6
Recurrent Coats                                -      87.7    189.9    230.3    259.7    275.3  .l042.9             -      2.8      5.8      6.8      7.5      7.8    10.6
Subtotal Pilot Watersbed/Rangeland
Rehabilitation Programe                     881.2  7,153.9   3,048.3  4,220.8   2,273.4   1,359.8  18,939.4       29.0   224.7    92.9    125.4    65.8    38.4   576.3
Subtotal Operational subproject,              13,725.1 114,887.3 107,240.6 114,302.5  91,492.2  28,862.3 470,549.9    450.7  3608.5  3.268.0  3.393.1 26,6_9   813.8 14,181.0
Total PROJECI COc8S                            26,648.9 154,898.6 135,518.5 135,524.9 108,036.5  37,761.1 588,388.4    546.8  4,865.2  4,128.3  4,023.2  3,125.7  1,064.9 17,754.0
Total Investment Costs                        1,540.7  35,805.8  22,509.2  15,136.9  10,062.5  2,023.3  87,078.4      50.6  1,124.6   685.7   449.3   291.1    57.0  2,658.3
Total Racurrant Coats                         1,343.1   4,205.5   S,728.7   6,08S.4   6,481.8   6,875.5  30,760.1    45.4   132.1   174.6   180.8   187.7   194.0   914.7
Tue Feb 08 11:45:47 1994
ox0



Pakistan
Balochistan Natural Resource anagement Project
Table 1. Environmental Section, P4D Department
Detailed Costa
(as *0O0)
Quantities                                   Totals Including,Ccninqencias
Snit   93/94 94/19  95/96 96/97 97/98 98/99 Total  93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/9B    98/99    Total
2. 2nve-easet Cote
A. Vehicles
41iD Double Cab Pickup                     unit         -     1I    -      -     -     -      I        -  1,172.8                                         1,172.8
Saloon Car                                 unit         -     I     -      -     -     -      1        -    938.2         -         -        -         -    938.2
Subtotal Vehicles,                                                                                        -  2,111.0          -        -         -        -  2,111.0
B. 3 eiem
1. C~tr tCquipeent
Desktop Coaputtr                        unit        -      2     -      -     -     -      2        -    217.e         -         -        -         -    217.8
laptop coputer                         unit        -      2     -     -      -     -      2        -    290.4         -         -        -         -    290.4
Loser Printer                           unit        -      I     -     -      -     -      I        -    145.2         -         -        -         -    145.2
24 Pin Printer                          unit        -      1     -     -      -     -      I        -      18.1             -         -        -          18.1
C4ect Printer                           unit        -      2     -      -     -     -      2        -     36.3         -         -        -         -     36.3
Software                              Lumpaum                                                       -     72.0         -         -        -         -     72.0
Voltage Stabilizer                      unit         -     4     -      -     -     -      4        -      72.6        -         -                        72.6
Subtotal Couter ted_nt                                                                                 -    852.4         -         -        -         -    8952.4
2. Otice 3 puiymt
Audio Visal                            1_spe                                                    192.0         -        -         -        -         -    192.0
Still Caera and Accessories             unit        -      1     -     -      -     -      1           -  18.1         -         -        -         -     l1.1
Office mehine   /a                    Lumstu                                                        -      69.2     73.2         -        -              142.4
_total Ottie t3y  -ment                                                                            192.0      87.3     73.2         -        -         -    152.5
3. Books and Journals                     1"um                                                      33.7     71.4       7.5       8.0      8.5       9.0    136.0
Subtotal 3qipment                                                                                     225.7       1       8.7        e.0      8.S       9.0  1,343.0
C. Offlrce furniture                        luapsun                                                             227.9         -        -         -        -    227.9
O. COeaaltmies
1. ateorat ly Re duttad
Natural Resourco ta4gent Expert  nmamth              -     3     1      -     -     -      4        -  2,139.1    752.4          -        -         -  2.891.S                             4.
Training Expert                      ma_nath        -      2     1      -     -     -      3   _   -  1,426.1    752.4           -        -         -  2,178.5
S2btotal  t3,9t89 Rzit                                                                                     -165.2  1,504.8          -         -           9,070.0
2. Lo"y  _oc"led 
Ecologist                            manmonth       -      2   O.S   0.9      -     -      3        -    127.8      33.9      35.9        -         -    197.5
Training Expert                       aamonth       -      I     I      1     -     -      3        -      63.9     67.8      71.7        -         -    203.4
btotal Loaelly Recruited                                                                                     191 7    101 7    107 6         -         -    401.0
etotul C.  tamles                                                                                          -  3,796.9  1,606.9    107.6 -        -        -  5,471.0
S. freaning
1. ln- -azi
Short-Coures                          staffday      -    60    60    60    60    60   300           -     49.0      92.1      95.2    598.5      62.0    276.7
2. Ove0Sea
M. Sc                                staffocnth      -     -    12    12      -     -    24         -         -    836.0    884.2          -        -  1,720.2
Short Courses                         mmonth        -      3     6     6      -     -    15         -    297.1    627.0    663.1          -         -  1IS97.3
Subtotal oersea                                                                                        -    297.1  1,463.0  1,547.3           -        -  3,307.9
3. Twinning Arr_angemet                  lumpsum                                                   1SS.9    297.1    313.5    331.6  311.5    372.6  1.822.1
Subtotal  ra                                                                                              .9    643.2 1,828.6  1,934.1    410.0    434.6  S,406.4
r. Studie
Policy                                   luam                                                          -  2,547.2  2,626.8  2,69S.2  2,074.2           -  9,943.0
Feasibility                              lupum                                                         -  2,069.6  2,134.0  2,189.9  2247.1            -  8,640.5
Subtotal Stie"                                                                                             -  4.616.8  4,760.4  4,88.50  4 321.3          - 18 593.5
Total     waet Co                                                                                           81.6 12,366.9  8,276.2  5,934.7  4,739 7    443.8  3,142.7
I       - .Ilr nt Co
A. Incmental Coots
Super Chief (tPS-20)                    staffyerr    0.5      1      1     1     1      1   S.S     94.9    199.0    211.5    224.1    237.6    291.8  1,218.6
Deputy Director (8PS-19)                ataffyerr    0.5      2     2      2     2     2  10.9      74.8    315.0    334.7    354.8    376.1    398.6  1,854.0
A1st. Director (8PS-17)                 staffyear       1     1     3      3     3     3    16      82.7    261.2    277.5    294.1    311.8    330.5  1,557.8
Other Staff (tPS-16)                    staffycar    1.S      4      4     4     4      4  21.5    895.      239.9    294.9    270.2    286.4    303.6  1,440.6
Other Staff (BPS 19 and below)          staffycar       5    16    16    16    16    16    89    166.2    960.0    S99.0    630.7    668.5    708.6  3,329.0
o*total Toazemntal Costa                                                                              903.7  1,97.2  1,673.S  1,773.9  1,880.4  1,993.2  9,400.0
B. Office Expenditures                      lulpsun                                                   120.7    316.3    668.6    705.4    744.4    789.8  3,341.0
C. VcLleo O0Z
Car                                      luapeum        -   O.S     I      I     I     I   4.S         -      34.3     72.4      76.5     81.1      86.0    350.3
4W1D Double Cab Pickup                     unit         -   0,S     I      I     I     1   4.5                34.3     72.4    756 15   162 3       e1720    350.3
Subtotal Vehicles 004M                                                                                           68.9    144.7    193.1    162.3    172.0    700.6
D. Materials/Equipment and Tools Ott        lumpsmu                                                        -     27.9     98.3      61.7     69.4      69.3    282.3
Total Recurrent coats                                                                                      624.5  1,987.5  2,545.1  2,694.1  2,852.5  3,020.3 13,723.9
Totaw                                                                                                     1,006.1 14,354.4 10,821.2  9,628.9  7,992.1  3,463.9 46,868.6
ka Including photocopier, airconditioning, manual typewriters, *tc.
Thu Jan 27 09:01:27 1994



Pakistan
Salochistart Natural RascurcC Management Pro3ect
Table 2. BSal,chiatant Environmental Protection Agency
Dletailed Cost..
(Ka -0002
Osnt it its                                    Totals Including Continoeniesa
Unit     93-/94 94/99 95/9699/97 97/98 98/99 Tot-al  93/94    94/99    99/96    96/97    97/98    98o/99    Total
I. Znve.tment costs
A. Civl Works
Office Block                                         a"n           -   160   1SO       -     -      -   300         -      8.4    938.4           -         -         -1,822.8
DU OUice                                            ago            -    69   250       -            -   309               324.3  1,964.0          -         -        -1,8e9.3
Anat.Director Hub Office cus Residence               sqn           -   215   236                    -   470         -1,399.6  1,470.2             -                   -2,899.8
Deputy Director Housing  M1                         sge            -   100   139                    -   235         -    98.6    844.6            -                   -1,434.2
Chwwkidar Noosing (31                                UPe          30   120      -      -     -      -   190    167.8    707.9           -                                   79.4
Subtotal civil war"S                                                                                               167.8  3, 89-1.3  4,817.3         -                       ,876.4
3.Vehicles
tud Double Cab Pickuap                              unit           -     2      -      -     -      -     2         -  2,349.5                          -                2,349.9
Motorcycle, 100cc                                   unit           -     4      -      -                                   63.0         -                                   63.0
subtotal Wobbles-298.                                                                                                                                                       2,9008.
C. Ro3i1mit
1. OComtat RgiPeN*t
Desktop Computer                                 unit          -      2      -     -      .     -      2         -    217.9 S                                           217.9
Laptop Computer                                  unit          -      2      -            -     -      2         -    289.9          -         -        -               289.9
L,aser Printer                                   uncit         -      I                                I         -    149.0          -                            -     149.0
24 pia Printer                                   unit          -      I      -            -            I         -      18.1         -         -                  -      18.1
Comact frintel                                   unit           -     2      -     -             -     2         -      36.2         -         --                        36.2
Software,                                        unit                                                            -     72.6          -                   .        -      72.6
Voltage Stabilize:                               unit           -     4      -     -            -      4               72.85                                             72.9
Subtotal Ocoate   Equigeet                                                                                                B 81.9        -                             -    81.8
S. Offic evapmest
Audiovisual Squipwet                           lampeun                                                       192.0         -         -         -         -        -     192.
Still Camera 4 Accessories                       set           -      I                                I         -      18.1                                             IS:',-18.
office macMiae.  /a                            luospem                                                           -      69.2     73.2          -         -         -    142.4
Sbatotal. Office Suigmsmt                                                                                       19.0       87.3      73.2         -         -         -    392.5
3. Portable Polution Measuring Squipmemt          lumpoam                                                           -  1,920.8                    -                   -  1,928.8
4. Books 4 Journals                               luapata                                                        34.3      72.6       7.7       8.1       86       9.1    140.4
9. Bicycle,                                         unit           -    10      -     -             -    10                20.0j        -         -         -         -     2
Sd*Abt"  R%ULPet                                                                                                   226.3  2,99.2.6      60.8    -8.1A        8.6       9.1  3,289.5
D. Office Purniture                                  lumseum,                                                           -    293.0         -         -         -         -    293.0
3. Cnsntamoie
Industrial C Urban Waste Disposal avpert   manAcath            -      2      1     1      -     -      S         -  1,426.1    162.6    799.8           -         -  2,974.3 
Savitcamentalist/2lA Specialist                seomooth        -      2      1     1      -     -      4         -  1,426.1    7S2.4    799.8           -         -  2,97t.3
Training Smaprt                                macampoth              1      I        -         -      2         -    713.0    792.4           -         -        -  3,969.8
esAwareness Iapert                          UUAWMth                1      1      1     -      -     3         ..   713.0    752.4    799.8            -         -  2,261.2
Sebtatl Reatexaslawlly Roecuintsd                                                                                   -  4,78.3  1009.71  2,8. I                           9,619.2
2. Iooa1   Rsounited
Industrial a Ucbank Waste, Disposal Eapert   uerActh           -      2      1     1      -     -      4         ..   127.8      67.8      71.7         -         -    267.3
Sovicromentalist/8lA, Specialist               macmoth         -      2      1     1      -     -      4         -    127.8      67.8      71.7         -         -     267.3
Training ""pet                                 metacoth         .     I      1     -      -     -      2         -     63.9      67.8          -         -              133.7I
Legal Bpet                                     mbacmOth        -      3      -     -      -     -      3         -    191.7          -        -         -         -     191.7
Mu*sAwareness Expert                          eanwacoh                2      1     -      -     -      3         -    127.0       67.8                                  196.6
06tct5    LocaulW Seeguted                                                                                          -    638.9    271.1    143.9                          es-S109.9
Bdtetsl cointam.ies                                                                                                    -  4,917.2  3,288.8  2,30.8                       - 10,72988
1r. training
Short Courses                                   macday         -     60   120   120   120   120   940            -     49.0    104.1    110.4    117.0    124.0    504.9
2.Overseas
twinning Arrangement                           lumpmam                                                       199.9    297.1    313.9    331.6    391.9    372.6  1,822.1
sec                                           staffecotls      -      -    12    12       -     -    24          -         -    836.0    894.2                        3   , 720. 2
Short course$                                  smoomth               3      6     6      -     -    19               297.1    627.0    663.1        --           -  1,987.3
Subtotal Overses"                                                                                               199        942 ,776. S   ,878.9        39.       1769,26
Sutatal Training                                                                                                   199.9    663.2  1,880.7  1,989.3    460.9    496.6  9,634.1
0. gass  0Areness Program                             luspeum                                                      609.0  2,388.0  2,462.3  2,S26.8  3,629.9               11 615.9
towe  Snyseteent Costs                                                                                                1,1959.1 17,993.8 12.921,8  7,099.0  4,106.        9896.7 43,342.2
1.ReAOSrant Cees                                                                                                                                                                                               2y.
A. zmorinmtal. staff /b
Assistant Director (MP  17)                      staffyear       0.8     2      2     2      2      2  10.9      41.3    174.1    189.0    196.1    207.9    220.3  1,024.7                                 a.
Administrative Officer (928-171                  staffyaca    0.29       1      1      1     1      1  9.29      20.7      87.1      92.9      98.0    103.9    110.2    912.4
Other Staff                                      staffyaar    0.29       2      2      2     2      2 19.29      14.2    120.0    127.9    139.9    943.2    191.6    661.8
Other Statf (BPS 19 and lousrl                   staffyear    3.79    16    16    16    16    16803.79    124.7    960.0    999.0    630.7    668.9    708.6  3,287.
startotal xboremmtak state                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~200.9    941.2    999.9  1,099.9  1123.9   ,190.9   ,963
B. Office Sxpenditures                                loUpsun                                                      904.6    831.9  1,418.9  1,494.1  1,991.7  1,678.8  7.903,2
C. Building O09                                       luapsm                                                                      -     C7.4    111.1    347.2    196.3    901.9
D. Vehbicle 0O4
Pickup                                              unit           -     2      4     4      4      4    18s              137.0    289.4    306.2    324.9    344.1  1,401.2
Motorcycle                                           unit                2      4      4     4      4    18s               17.3      36.2      38.3      40.6     43.0    1794I
Subtotal Vehicle 004                                                                                                         1-14.1    329.6  3-4 4.6    369.1  3897.1 -9,9-76.3j
S. Mat*ri.Is/2qmipnent and Tools 0629                lumpsuat                                                       11.4     190.3    173.7    1842    191.7    207.9    933.2
total Recurrent. costa                                                                                                  726 9  _q957. 0 _? ff?, 0  3.1 93.~  j34I1,    3 620.8 1_6 OlO.9
total                                                                                                                  2,870.0 20,80e.8 19,918.8 10,248.8  7.922.2  '4,12695 99,371 3. 1
%a Includin   htocopier, airconditioning,  manual typeccitu,a, etc.
\b To be it, plac.. by July 1993



Pakistan
Saloeblitan Natural Resource Managemnt Project
Table 3. balochistan Forestry Department
DetAiled Coata
(R$ '000(
GuanLtities                                   Toytals Includingo Contingencies
Unit     93/94 94/91 9S/96 96/97 97198 93/99 Total  93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    Total
T. Investmaet Costs
A. Staff TrainIn  in Cmunity Soetry
Two-week Course for all Officers (BPS 16 A Above-         ad          -   280   280   280   280        - 1,120         -    169.9    180.5    191.3    202.8           -    744.4
a. Overseas trairning
M.Sc Study /a                                        staffmooths       -     -    12    12    12    12    48           -        -    836.0    884.2    937.2    993.S  3,651.0
C. Training and Devolopment                              mennoonth        -     -      3     -     -      -     3         -        -    313.5               -        -         313.5
D.   ntoring r tvaluation
Internationally Recruited TA                          nannonth        -   2.5   0.5      -      -     -      a        -  1,485.5    313.5          -         -        -  1,799.0
lEocLlly Racruited TA                                 m4nmonth        -      2     1      1     1      1     6         -    127.8      67.8     71.7      76.0     80.6    423.7
Subtotal Mamitorixg t  valuation                                                                                          -  1,613.3    381.3       71.7     76.0      80.4  2,222.7
E. Buildings
Hous for GS18                                             eqs         -   200      -      -     -      -   200         -  1,179.2         -         -        -         -  1,179.2
Houns for G016                                           eqs          -   150      -      -     -      -   150         -    884.4         -         -        -         -    884.4
Subtotal Buildings                                                                                                          -    36          -         -        -         -  2,063.6
V. Maobinery and Equ4ipat
Office Equipment                                        lupsu                                                          -    271.1         -         -        _         _    275.5
. Vehicles
4wd Double Cab Pickup                                   unit          -      1     -      -                  I _  1    -  1,172.8         _        _                   -  1,172.6              Ln
Motorcycl,                                              unit          -      1     -      -     -      -     1         -    150.1         -         -                        110.1             0
Sotal Investnt Costs                                                                                                          -  5,441.1    711.3  1,147.2  1,216.0  1,074.0 10,593.6
YX. PecUrrent Cost
A. Building Oak                                            lumpaus                                                        -         -     21.0      22.2     28.2      37.4    108.6
S. V*hicle Om0
Double Cab Pickup                                       unit          -   0.1      I      I     I      1   4.5         -     34.3      72.4     76.s      81.l     86.0    350.3
Motorcycle                                              unit          -      1     -      -     -      -     1                e.6         -         -        -         -      8.6
Subtotal Vebiole O00                                                                                                      -     42.8      72.4     76.5      81.1      86.0    358.9
C. Matorialu/Squipment and Tools OAK                       luapsum                                                     41.7     88.1      93.3     98.7    104.7    111.0    117.1
total                                                                                                                       41.7  1,176.1  1,897.9  1,344.7  1,430.0  1,308.4 11,518.8
\a two courses of two years. on in social forestry, the other in nursery and forest management.
Thu Jan 27 08s31:17 1994
3 e
D " <
It'S



Pakistan
BalochiStan Natural Resource Management ProJ ct
Table 4. MNkran Coast Sand Duno Stabilization
Detailed Coota
(RD '000)
Quantities                                       Tote is Inc ludin  Corntinqzenies
Unit  93J94 94/95 95/96    9799 97899 Total   93/94               94/95      95/96      96t97      97t98  98/99         Total
X. nyvestmnt Costs
A. Preparatory Work, Happing, Planning             lump sum                                                     33.9       83.5          -         _          _                117.4
S. Nurseries /s
Establishment /b                                   ha          4     1      _     _     _      _     S      519.4      136.8         -          -          -          -     656.2
Seedling Production for  Dunes                 1000 sdlg    992 2,247 2,387 1,717   593        - 7,936   2,180.0   5,222.6   S,887.3   4,487.1   1,642.7              -  19,027.6
Seedling Production for Community Forestry  1000 sdig         11    24    27    16      2      -    80       23.3       53.5      63.8       40.1        5.3         -      185.9
Adaptive Researcb /c                            lump sum                                                     22.6     475.9      505.0      535.1      567.2     300.6   2,006.5
Subtotal Axcries                                                                                             2,753.2   5,888.7   6,456.1   5,062.3   2,215.3         300.6  22,676.3
C. Plsmtig oef Trees/Nsubs
1. Samd Due riation e 11SO teeshA
First Year                                      ha         -   750 1,500 1,500 1,250        - 5,000          -  18,676.1  39,638.9  42,001.7  37,101.4            - 137,418.1
Second Year /d                                  ha         -      -   750 1,500 1,500 1,250 S,000            -          -   9,800.8  20,770.1  22,016.2  19.448.1  72,035.2
Subtotal Sand Dune riaticm S eLSO txaeA                                                                         -  18,676.1  49,439.8  62,771.8  S9,117.6  19,448.1 209,453.4
2. e-ity Ioestry
Trees /y                                   1000 plant       -    10    20    20    10       -    60          -     342.1      726.0      769.3     407.7          -   2.245.0
Subtotal PlantiW  of Tzees/8zubo                                                                                   -  19,018.1  50,165.7  63,541.0  59,525.4  19,448.1 211,698.4
D. Buildinp
Office Residence, Guest House                     sqo        100   800      -     -      -     -   900      559.5   4,716.8           -         -          -          -   5,276.3
Seed & Equipment Store                            sqm              100      -                  - 100            .     589.6           -         -          -          -     589.6
Vehicle Shd                                                    -   160      -     -      -     -   160                 943.4          -         -          -          -     943.4
Subtotal Suildiago                                                                                             559.5   4,249.7           -         -          -          -   6,809.2
t. Vebiel
4wd Double Cab ickup /f                           unit         -     3      -     -      -     -     3          -   3,518.3           -         -          -          -   3,518.3
Motorcycl- 100cc /g                               unit         -     8      -     -      -     -      8         -   1,125.9           -         -      _              -   1,12S.9
Ibotal Vehicles                                                                                                    -   4,644.2           -         -          -          -   4,644.2
P. Uquipmemt a Toole
10 P  Diesel Generator                            unit         -     2     -      -     -      -     2          -     363.0          -          -          -         -      363.0
Diesel Pumps (17.5 1/sO /h                        unit         -     4      -     -      -     -     4          -      290.4         -          -          -          -     290.4
Office Squipment                                lumpeum                                                         -      345.9          _         _                     -     345.9
Office Furniture                                lumpum                                                          -       65.1          -         -          -          -      65.1
caputer " Printer                                st           I     -      -     -      -     -      1     102.7          -          -         -          -          -     102.7
Survey A meteorological Equipmnt                  et           -     2      -     -      -     -     2          -      217.8          -         -          -          -     217.8
soil A Water Testing Kit                          set          2     -      -     -      -     -      2      02.3          -          -         -          -          -      62.3
Other Equipment & Tools                           st           -     2      -     -      -     -      2         -      253.0          -         -          -          -     253.0                t
Frar Tractor 75 Hp with Hater Tank
Trailer 4 Implemnts i                           unit         -     4      -     -      -     -     4          -   2,311.2           -         -          -          -   2.311.2
subtotal fquipmout   TSool                                                                                     285.0   3,846.3                                           -   4,-031.3
. Csultamiea
1. Int*ruatienally Relltad
Sand Dune Stabilization Specialist           manmoth        -     3      2     1     -      -     6          -   2,139.1   1,504.8       795.8          -         -   4,439.7
2. 1ocaly mactuted
Botanists, Univetsity of Karachi             menionth       -     6      4     2     2      -    14          -      383.4     271.1    1l3.5        1S1.9         -      949.9
Research Assistant                           maoonth        -     7     5      5     3      -    20          -     162.6      123.2      130.4      82.9          -      499.2
Sociologist                                  manonth        -     6     2      2     2      -    12          -     383.4      135.6      143.5      151.9         -      814.3
Subtotal Looally Recruted                                                                                       -      929.3     529.9      417.4      386.7          -   2.263.3
subtotal Cultaaoies                                                                                                -   3,068.5   2,034.7   1,213.2       386.7          -   6,703.1
11. !raimim
1. Xn-otry
Study Tour /I                                 manday        -    30    30      -     -      -    60          -      24.5       26.0          -          -         -       50.5
Short Courses                                 manday        -   120   250      -     -      -   370     _           28.0       62.0                     -         -       90.0
9dbtatal li-Coontry                                                                                             -        2.5      88.0---                                   14.
2. Overseas
Study Tour                                    menday        -    30    30      -     -      -    60          -      198.1     209.0          -          -         -      407.1
Short Courses                               manmonth        -     -      3     3     -      -     6          -          -     313.S      331.6          -         -      645.1
Subtotal oversea                                                                                                -      198.1     522.5      331.6          -         -   1.052.2
Subtotal frainin                                                                                                    -     250.6      610.S     331.6           -         -   1,192.7
Total xnvesset Coat.                                                                                             3,531.6  43,049.7  59,267.1  70,148.2  62,127.3  19,748.7 2S7,872.5
XI. Recurrent Coeta
A. Tozmental StaffI
DIO (BPS-8t)                                   staffy*ar   0.75      1      1     1      1     1 S.7S        79.0      110.9     117.8      124.9      132.4     140.3      705.4                    49
FO (tPS-6)                                     staffyear       2     4      4     4     4      4    22       62.1     130.7      138.9      1417.2     156.0     165.4      800.4
FG (BPS-2)                                     staffyear       2     4      4     4     4      4    22       62.8      111.2     118.1      125.2     132.7      110.7      680.7
BPS-1l                                         staffyoar    0.5      1      I     I      I     1   5.5       19.3       40.7      43.2       45.8       40.5      S1.5      249.0
BPS-7                                          staftybar    0.5      1      1     1      1     I   5.5       16.0       33.7      35.9       38.0       40.3      42.7      206.6
BPS-S                                          staffysar       3     7      7     7     7      7    38       89.3     219.4      233.1      2417.1    261.9      277.6   1,328.4
BPS-1                                          steffycar       2     4      4     4     4      4    22       50.5      106.3     113.0      119.8      126.9     134.6      651.1
Subtotal Iocremantal Staff                                                                                     369.1      751.0      800.0     848.0      898.8      952.8   4,621.6



B. Office  wpendituse                            lsum                                                       31.5     172.0    tle.4       19.2    205.9   2*t.2   1,006.2
C. building 06                                   lu_                                                           -      32.?       69.4      73.6      93.6     124.0      393.3
0. Vhiel* OV
Picbup                                          unit         -   1.5     3     I     I      3  13.5         -     102.8     217.1      229.6    243.4    256.0  1,00.9
Motorcycle                                      unit         -     4           0            8    36         -      14.3      72.4       76.5      61.1      66.0      350.3
tractor Trailer                                 unit         -     2     4     4     4      4    t6         -     171.3     361.0    382.7    405.7        *30.1   1 751.5
Subetal Vobiol- om                                                                                             -     308.3     651.2      680.9    730.2    774.1  3,152.6
S. Nstera1s/Bquipent nd Tools 044                lumpsum                                                    31.9      99.7      107.2     115.5     124.6    132.1      611.0
total 3 tmest Cato                                                                                             432.5   1.366.5   1.0tl.1-1.920.2 -2053.2  2.201.3-9,704.0
2ots                                                                                                          3,966.1  44,416.2  61,070.3  72,068.3  64,100.4  21,950.0 267,657.3
%a 2 ha at Pasal 3 ha at Sedar.
%b Land Preparation, foncing, irration, shed, etc.
Sc Procur_nt of setds/plants, chemicals, special sheds, etc.
%d Replanting at yar And plus 60 itrrigation.
%* Watering a maintenanc  to be carried ct  by participants (about 70 a of costsa.
%ft Witb front *nchg fcc 2 Flb.
%9 tor forest*rs.
Ah 2 set* each for Pasnt 6 S.d.:
U  toplematr: tippr, dorar blade, plough etc.
%1 foe omrnity leaders plus pcolect staff.
Thu Jan 27 00:35z01 1994
Ln
nU'



Pakistan
8alochistan Natuzal Resoutc- Managemnt Project
Table 5. Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park
Detailed Costs
(RS '000)
...St~~~Oantities                                         TotAls Including Contingencies
Unit      93/94 94/95 95196 96/97 97/98 98/99 Total  93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96    98/99    Totaie
I. Snvesteot Coste
A. Preparatory Work, Mapping, Planning           completion Is    30    70                               100     50.9    125.2          -        -         -        -    176.1
8. Park Management Plea /a                          luMapsuA                                                        -    132.0    139.3          -         -        -    271.4
C. Park Development
Fencing                                            km                 16      -     _      _          16         -  2,632.6         -                  _         -  2,632.6
Storage Tank w Pipe Connections                    m3            -   150      -     -      -     -   150         -    102.8         -         -         -        -    102.6
Water Development /b                             luepsum                                                         _    102.8    109.1          _         _        -    212.0
Check Dms S Erosion Control                      luepsum                                                         -     27.4      29.1      30.8     16.3      17.3    121.0
Planting of Trees S Shrubs /c                    lupsum                                                          -      13.4     28.5      30.2     16.0      17.0    105.1
Other Habitat Improvement                        lumpsum                                                         -      13.4     28.5      30.2      16.0     17.0    105.1
Visitors' Center (VC) /d                         lupsum                                                          _    274.2  2,909.8  1,233.3           -        -  4,417.3
VC B Exhibits 6 Display Facilities               lumpau                                                          -         -        -    755.5    800.8          -  1,556.3
Roads (gravel)                                     km            _    12    12                        24         -    105.4    112.0          -         -        -    217.4
Paths                                              km            -    10    10    10                  30         -      26.8     28.5      30.2         -        -      85.6
Introduction of Urial in Park                    luspsum                                                         -    116.7      62.0         -     69.6         -    248.3
Subtotal asrk Dvlpmt                                                                                                -  3,415.7  3,307.S  2,110.2    918.8        51.3  9,803.6
D. vebiolee
lwd Double Cab Pickup                             unit           -     2      -            -           2            2,345.5         -         -         -        -  2,345.5
Motorcycle 100cc                                  unit e                                                         -    703.7 -  -  -  -                                 753.7
Subtotal V icle                                                                                                     -  3,049.2          -        -         -         -  3,049.2
E. equipmet A Pale
Electric Booster Pump (filo  7.5 cm)              unit           -     I                                         -     72.6         -         --                       72.6
Office Bquipment                                 lumpau                                                                103.8     36.6         -         -        -    140.4
Office Furniture                                 lumpsul                                                         -      65.1        -         -         _        -      65.1
Altimeter, Camera, Cm ss,
Binoculars, etc                                lumpsum                                                      34.3         -                                     -      3t.3
Public Address System, V, VCR
Projectors                                     luepsum                                                     192.0         _-                                    -    192.0
Computer w Printer                                 set           1            -        -    I           1    102.7         -        -         -         -        -    102.7
fare Tractor 75 Hp with Accessories               unit           -     I            -      -           1         -    581.0         -         -         -        -    581.0
Bicycle                                           unit          10                               10      18.9         -        -         -         -        -      18.9                       U7
Other Esuipmnt A Tools                           luepsum                                                      60.4      63.3     66.9      70.5      74.4     78.6    414.0                        1
; ut   'ools                                                                                     408.3    885.7    103.4       70.5     74.4      78.6  1,621.0
Office                                             sqe          20   100      -     -      -          120    111.9    589.6                      _ _ _    _            701.5
House for Curator/Visitor center                   eq            -   150      -     -      -     -   150         -    884.4          -        -         -        -    884.4
Mouses for Deputy Rangers                        50  qn          1     2      -     -      -     -      3    279.7    589.6          -        -         -        -    869.3
Staff Quarters for FG, Game Watchers, etc          sqe           -   110   165      -      -     -   275         -    648.6  1,032.3          -         -        -  1,680.8
Public Recreation Facilities le                 lump sum                                                         -         -        -    154.2    163.4          -    317.6
Pipeline (1500g) If                                 m          225 1,275      -     -      -     - 1,500      23.4    139.9         -         -         -        -    163.3
aubtotal Duildisge                                                                                              415.1  2,852.0  1,032.3    154.2    163.4            -  4,616.9
. Comultan@ee
1. Zmtemxatimanlly EsoLuited
Park Management Planner/Team  eader         menmonth          -     4     2      1     1      -     8         -  2,852.2  1,504.8    195.8    843.5           -  5,996.3
Recreational Development Advisor            menmooth          -     2      1     -     -      -     3         -  1,426.1    752.4          -        -         -  2,178.5
Subtotal Imtereationally Reoruited                                                                               -  4,278.3  2,257.2    795.8    843.5           -  8,174.8
2. Locally Racuited
Natural Rasource/
Habitat Imptovenat Advisor                 mnraonth         -     3      1     -     -      -     4         -    191.7      67.0         -         -        -    259.5
Wildlife Managemnt Specialist Yg             mAnonth          -     3      1     -      -     -      4        -  2,139.1    752.4          -                  - 2,891.5
Sociologist/Socio-Econcmist                  manwonth         -     3      2     1     -      -     6         -    191.7    135.6       71.7         -        -    399.0
Subtotal tocally Recuited                                                                                        -  2.522.S5   955.7       71.7         -        -  3,550.0
Stotal tOmaeotaoie                                                                                                      6,800.7  3,213.0    867.5    843.5           - 11,724.8
H.  raing
1. P-Sertvioe
One-Week Courses for Officers               7 7 sanday        -     3      3     3      3     3    IS         -      17.2     18.2      19.3     20.5      21.7     96.9                     9  0
Two-Week Courses for FR S D. Rangers    14 14 manday          -     6      6     6      6     6    30         -     49.0      52.1      55.2     58.5      62.0    276.7                    (i  l2
Two-Week Courses for Forest Guards 6                                                                                                                                                         Lb )'
Gme Watchers                            14 14 manday        -    16    16    16    16    16    e0           -     52.3      SS.S     58.9      62.4      66.1    295.2                        0  X
Subtotal Sa-Service                                                                                              -    118.4    125.8    133.4    141.4    149.8    668.8
2. Ovarsaa                                                                                                                                                                                          wt-
Study Tours of Natioal Parks                manmnth           -     2     2      -     -      -     4         -    316.9    331.4          -        -         -    651.3
Degree in Park Managemet                     mamonth          -    12    12      -     -      -    24         -    792.3    836.0          -        -         -  1,628.3
Short Coutres on Wildlife/National Park
HanAgmant                                 manmcnth          -     4     4      4     -      -    12         -    396.1    418.0    442.1          -         -  1.256.2
Subtotal overaeas                                                                                                -  1,505.3  1,588.4    442.1           -        -  3,535.8
subotal   ais                                                                                                        -  1,623.7  1,714.2    575.5    141.4    149.8  4,204.6
Petal Intvestmt Costs                                                                                                874.2 58,884.4  9,509.8  3,177.9  2,141.5    279.7 35,467.6



Ii. _emm cost
A. lmoeamtal Staff /h
curator (BPS-16)                               staffyar       0.5     1     1      I     I     I   5.S      28.5     60.0      63.7     67.6      71.6     75.9    367.3
8PS-S                                          steffyser        1     4     4      4     4     4    21      29.S    125.4    133.2    141.2    149.7    158.6    737.8
BPS-I                                          staffyear      1.5     6     6      6     6     6  31.5      37.9    159.5    169.5    179.6    190.4    201.9    930.8
Subtotal 3hotemental Staff                                                                                     96.1    344.9    366.4    380.4    411.7    436.4  2.043.9
B. Office Bxpenditursa                             luspum                                                     189.2    266.1    282.1    298.8    316.7    335.6  1,688.7
C. Operation of Visitors' Center                   luapum                                                         -         -     43.7     92.6      98.1    104.0    338.5
D. Roads                                             km                                                           -      10.1     21.4     22.7      24.0     25.5    103.6
S. Paths                                             km                                                           -      2.6       5.4      8.6       9.2      9.7     35.5
F. Buildings OM Ai                                 luipsum                                                        -         -     43.3     47.3      62.1     82.3    234.9
C. Vehicle OS
Pickup                                           unit           -     1     2      2     2     2     9         -     68.5    144.7    153.1    162.3    172.0    700.6
motorcycle                                       unit           -   2.5     5      S     5     5  22.5         -     21.4      45.2     47.6      50.7     53.6    218.9
Bicycle                                          unit           -     I     1      2     2     2      8        -      1.3       1.4      3.0       3.2      3.4     12.3
Subtotal Vehiole o0                                                                                               -     91.2    191.3    203.9    216.1    229.1    931.8
H. mateci"al/quipmet and Sools 010
Farm Tractor                                     unit           -   0.5     1      1     1     1   4.5         -     42.8      90.4     95.7    101.4    107.5    437.9
Booster PuMp                                     unit           -   0.5     1      1     1     1   4.5         -     14.2      30.1     31.8      33.7     35.8    145.6
Office Equipment 4 Furnitur  /                  lusum                                                          -      2.0       4.2      4.5       4.0      5.0     20.5
All other Equipment fk                         lIUpum                                                          -     10.4      22.0     23.2      24.6     26.1    106.3
Subtotal Natezialeltgui"mst and to*Ol 094                                                                         -     69.4    146.7    155.2    164.5    174.4    710.3
TOt   becureat Costs                                                                                              285.4    784.3  1,100.4  1I217.5  1,302.5  1.397.2  6,087.2
Total                                                                                                            1.159.6 19,666.6 10,610.2  4,995.5  3,444.0  1,676.9 41,554.8
\a Associated with coasultancies and incremntal staff costs listed belaw; hiring of workmen, draftsmn, helpers and report writing.
\b DOvelopment of spring and water holes.
\c Only to *xtent of restoring original conditions.
\d Rehabilitation e extension of existing museum,  including display windows 6 cabinets.
\e Lawn 6 garden, picnic grounds to be decided in Park Plan.                                                                                                                                      1/
\f To supply wnter to all buildings a Water points.
\9 WP could supply this person.
\h S". details in Ann        ---------
\i Approximately It of Capital Costs.
\a Approximately 24 of Capital Costs.
\k Approximately 41 of Capital Costs.
Thu Jan 27 08:45S54 1994



Pakistan
Salochistan Natural Resource Management Project
Table 6. Pilot Watershed/Rangeland Rehabilitation Pzograms
Detailed Costs
(Re *000)
Quantities                                    Totals Including Continaencies
Unit    93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 97/98 98/99 Total _93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    Total
I.  nveestmt Costs
A. preparatory Work, Mapping, Planning  lumpaum                                                       73.4      77.3         -         -                  -    150.7
.  2urerie,
1. Sed g Production /a
Shrubs for Fodder Banks            1000 sdig    100   200   300   300        -     -   900    155.0    326.7    520.1    551.0            -        -  1,552.8
C. Subwatershed Land Improvment               ha         -   250   250   500       -      - 1,000         -    684.1    726.0  1,538.5          -         -  2,948.6
0. Cinasety Forestry
Planting of Podder Banks /b           2000 shrub      -   100   150   250   250       -   750         -    332.0    528.5    933.3    989.3            -  2,783.2
C. Vehicles
4wd Double Cab Pickup                    unit         -      1     -      -     -      -     I        -  1,172.8          -        -         -         -  1,172.8
V. Equipmt S Tools
Farm Tractor 75 hp with Water Tank
Trailer a Implemnts /c                 unit         -      I     -     -      -     -      I        -    581.0          -        -         -        -    581.0
Planting tools                         lumpsum                                                        -      68.4      14.5     15.3      16.3     17.2    131.7
Other Equipment S Tools                lumpsum                                                     91.3         -    102.0         -         -         -    193.3
Subtotal Equipment 6 Tools                                                                            91.3    649.4    116.5       15.3      16.3      17.2    906.0
0. Coenultancies
1. Int3Mrt±omally Recruited
Agricultural Econoist
Diagnostic Survey Specialist    manoonth         -     3      -     -      -     -      3        -  2,139.1         -         -         -        -  2,139.1
Diagnostic Survey Expenses          luMpsum                                                        -      99.0                                            99.0
subtotal lmtersatioally Recruited                                                                     - 2,238.2           -        -         -         -  2,238.2
2. Locally Reruted
Arri Managemnt Assistance Id        lumpaum                                                    563.5  1,394.0    764.0    808.8    856.2    906.4  5,293.0
Sociologist                         manmonth       -     3      3     2      2     2    12         -    191.7    203.3    143.5    151.9    160.8    851.2
Subtotal Locally ReFtuited                                                                        563.5  1.585        967.4    952.3  1,008.1  1,067.3  6A144.2                                        4
Subtotal Consutamoiee                                                                                 563.5  3.821.9   67.4    952.3  100    1.067.1  8.382.4 4
Total Moveetment Coste                                                                                    883.2  7,066.2  2,858.4  3,990.5  2,013.7  1,084.5 17,896.5
fl. Rourrent Caste
A. Works Ot?t /e                           luipsum                                                        -      3.3      13.9     44.2      62.4      66.1    189.9
S. Vehicle Ol4
Double Cab Pickup                        unit         -   0.5      1      1     1      1   4.5         -     34.3      72.4     76.5      81.1     86.0    350.3
C. Materials/Equipment and Tool. Ofl6
Tractor Trailer                        lumpsum        -   0.5      1      1     1      1   4.5        -      43.6      92.0     97.3    103.1    109.3    445.2
All Other Equipment i Tools /f         lumpsum                                                         -      6.6      11.7     12.3      13.1      13.9     57.6
total Recugmnt Coste                                                                                          -      87.7    189.9    230.3    259.7    275.3  1.042.9
Total                                                                                                      883.2  7,153.9  3,048.3  4,220.8  2,273.4  1,3sg.e 18,939.4
%a Unit costs is an average of 501 bareroot, 50t polypot.
\b 1x2 m spacing, watering t maintenance will be carried out by participants (about 508 of costs).
\c Implements: ripper, dozor blade, plough etc.
\d Azri costs include salaries, honoraria, TA/DA, labor and other resarch costs including publication of reports.
\* 0NM of subwatershed improvemnts e approximately 2t/yr.
Vf Approxitately 41 of capital costs.
Thu Jan 27 08:48030 1994
tDfX



Pakistan
Balochistan Natural Resource tanagemnt Project
Table 7. Consevation and Managment of Juniper Forests
Detailed Costs
(Rs '000)
QOuantities                                         Totals Includinq Continqencies
Unit    93/94  94/95  9S/96  96/97  97/99  98/99  Total    93/94          94/95     95t96      96/97      97/98     95/99      Total
I. Invetment Coast
A. Prepagatory Work, Mapping, Planning           lunpsum                                                            56.6      178.8                                          -     235.4
B. Nureeies. A Researoh
1. Establishment Is                             ha          2       -       -             _       _       2     259.7          -          -         -                    -      259.7
2. Seedlg   oduotioan /b
Tr"es for Fuelwood Plantations £
Stream Banks fc                        1000 sdig    300    450    450    300         -       -  1,500      445.7      704.5     747.6      528.1          -          -   2,t25.8
Fuelwood Trees for Caounity  Forestry 1000 adig         26      40     40      26      -       -    132       38.6       62.6      66.5       05.8          _         -      213.5
Subtotal Seedling vzodaotion                                                                                    484.3      767.1     814.0      573.9          -          -   2,639.3
3. Adaptive Resarch /d                        luapsua                                                           112.9      237.9     252.5      133.8      141.8      150.3   1.029.3
Subtotal Nursoeres  R se                                                                                           856.9   1,005.1   1,066.5       707.6      141.8      150.3   3,928.3
C. Conesvatiom  S anagemet
Fencing of Zoe A /2                             km           -     10       6      -       -      -      16         -   1,368.2      871.2           -         -          -   2.239.4
Boundary Pillars for Sone S /f                  no           -     30      30              -      -      60          -      24.6       26.1               -          -           50.8
Boundary Pillars for Zone C /g                  no           -     50    100    100       70      -    320           -      41.0       87.1      92.3       68.5          -     289.0
Soil Conservation Ih                            ha      1,500  2,500  2,500  2.500  1,000         - 10,000   3,895.3   6,841.1   7,259.9   7,692.6   3,261.7              -  28,950.6
Water Development (10 locations) /i           lumpaum                                                            64.9      205.2      435.6     461.6      326.2          -   1,493.5
Pilot Fuelwood Planting
B 1110 trees/ha /j                            ha           -    200    300    300    200        -  1,000          -  10,672.0  16,988.1  16,000.7  12,720.5             -  58,381.4
Forest Tracks                                   Xo           5     10      IS      5       -      -      35      42.2       88.9      141.6      50.0          -          -     322.7
Paths                                           km          10     1S      1S     15      1S      S     75       26.0       41.0      43.6       46.2       48.9       17.3     222.9
Combating Mistletoe A Other Diseases          lumpeum                                                               -       68.4      145.2     153.9      163.1      66.4      617.0
subtot  Coaenatimi a an_agement                                                                                  4,028.4   19,350.6  25,998.3  26,497.2  16,588.8        103.7  92,567.2
D. Cmity r@eetry
Planting of Puelwood Tres in Villags
a around Homesteads /k                    1000 tree      IS      25     25      20     IS       -    t00      634.1   1,313.7   1,181.8   1,001.8        796.4          -   4,727.8
B. Public Awareness Campaign                     lunpsum                                                            64.8      136.8      144.8     153.3      162.5       86.1     748.3
.  uilding
Office for 1 DFO (1)                            xqm          -    250       -      -       -      -    250           -   1,474.0          -          -         -          -   1,474.0
House for DPO (11                               sq           -    250       -      -       -      -    250          -   1,474.0           -         _          _          -   1.474.0
Houses for PR$ (2)                              sq.          -    300       -      -       -      -    300          -   1,768.8           -         -          -          -   1,768.8
Vehicle Shed                                    sq.          -    160       -      -       -      -    160          -      943.4          -          -         -          -     943.4
"ubtotal Suildige                                                                                                       -   5,660.1          -               -          -        5,660.1
*. Vebolee
4wd Double Cab Pickup                          unit          -      3       -      -       -      -       3         -   3,518.3           -         -          -          -   3,518.3
Motorcycle 100cc                               unit          -      8       -      -       -      -       8          -   1,125.9          -          -         -          -   1,125.9
8total Vehiclee                                                                                                         -   4,644.2          -          -         -          -   4,644.2
s. Equipmewt I Pool
Farm Tractor 75 Hp with Water Tank
Trailer S Impmeants /I                       unit          -      4       -      -       -      -       4         -   2,324.0           -         -                         2,324.0
Computer w Printer                              set          2      -       -      -       -      -       2     205.4          -          -          -         -          -     205.4
Office Equipment                              lumps=                                                            261.9       69.2       73.2      77.5                     -     481.8
Office Furafiture                             lupum                                                                  -      65.1          -          -         -          -       65.1
survey Equipent                               lumpeum                                                            S4.9       14.5                                          - _9.4
eteorological Observation Egquipment         lumpsum                                                            68.6       14.5       15.3          -         -          -      98.4
mass Awareness (audio visual)                 lunpum                                                             109.7      29.0       30.6       32.4      17.2       18.2     237.2
Ca-ping Equipment                             luapsum                                                           123.6       52.1       27.6      29.3       31.1       16.5     280.1
Planting Tools                                luspsum                                                            64.8       13.7       14.5      15.3       16.3       17.2     111.7
Other Equipment * Tools                       lumpaum                                                            91.3       27.5       29.1       30.9      32.7       17.3     228.9
Subtotal mgapimt t Tools                                                                                           980.2   2,609.7       190.4      185.4      97.2       69.2   4,132.0
2. ceultanoiee
I. Zntemationally Satuited
Agricultural Economist
Diagnostic Survey Spcialist           maanmoth        -       3      -       -      -       -      3          -   2,139.1          -          -          -         -   2,139.1             '1  b
Comunity Forester                        mamonth         -       2       -      -       -      -      2          -   1,426.1           -         -          -          -   1,426.1
Juniper Specialist/Mistletoe Disease  manmonth            -      2       -      -       -      -       2         -   1,426.1           -         -          -          -   1,426.1
Diagnostic Survey Expenses                 lumpsam                                                               -       87.1          -         -          _          -      87.1 .                *
Subtotl Zaterationally Reeruited                                                                                    -   5,075.4           -          --                   -   5,078.4
2. toally  Feoruted
Diagnostic Survey Specialist             vnanonth         -      3       -      -       -      -       3         -      191.7          -         -          -          -     191.7
PFI                  .                   manonth         4       2      2       2      2       -      12     241.1      127.8     135.46    143.5       151.9          _     801.8
AZRI                                     nanmonth         4      2       2      2       2      -      12     243.1      127.8     135.6      143.5      151.9          -     801.8
Sociologist                              manronth         -     12      12     12      5       4     45          -      697.0     739.4      782.7      345.2     292.4   2,856.7
Civil Engineer                           meamonth         -      3       3      -       -      -      6          -      191.7     203.3          -          - _       _      395.0
Subtotal Looally maxuitad                                                                                       486.2   1,335.9 _1,213.8   1.069.7         649.0      292.4   507
Subtotal COnsultanoie*                                                                                             486.2   6,414.4   1,214.8   1,069.7        649.0      292.4  10,125.S



J. training
1. rn-Country
Study Tour/ m                               anday         -    112       -       -    112       -    224           -      78.4          -          -      93.6           -     172.0
Two-Week Course for Forest Guards
4 Foresters /n                           manday         -    840       -    840       -       -  1,680          -      196.0          -     220.7           -         _      416.7
Two-Week Course for Forest Rangers to   manday            -      SC      -      56      -       -    112          -       32.7          -       36.8          -          -      69.5
One-Week Course for DFOS /p                manday         -      14      -      14       -      -      28          -      11.4      I           12.9          -          -      24.3
Subtotul  n-Country                                                                                                   -     318.5          -      270.4       93.6          -     682.5
2. Overseas
Study Tour /q                             maninonth       -              -       -      -       -       3         -      476.4                          -          -           476.4
Short Coursos /r                          manmonth        -       -      4       4      -       -       8          -         -      418.0      442.1          *          _     860.1
Subtotal Overseas                                                                                                _           75.4      418.0      44.1l          -          -   1,335.S
Subtotal raining                                                                                                    _           793.9     418.0      712.5       93.6              2.018.0
Total rnvestent Cost                                                                                                   7 107.2  41 ,907.3  30, 213.8  30 327.  18,29.4         701.8 128,786.9
IS. FeCUrret Costa
A. Intrmetal Staff /s
DFO (SPS-lOl                                 staffyear   0.75        1       1      1       1      1   6.76        79.0     110.9      117.8      124.9      132.4      140.3     705.4
Forest Ranger (8PS-16)                       staffysar       1       2       2      2       2      2      11      57.0      120.0      127.5      135.1      143.2      151.8     734.6
Forester (BPS-6)                             staffyear       2       4       4      4       4      4      22       62.1     130.7      138.9      147.2      166.0      165.4     800.4
Forest Guard (BPS-2)                         staffysar    2.5        S       6      S       6      S   27.5       66.0      139.0      147.6      156.5      165.9      176.8     8S0.9
PS-11                                       staffysar        1      2       2      2       2      2      11       38.6      81.3       86.4       93.6       97.1      102.9     498.0
BPS-?                                        staffyear    0.6        1       1      I       1      I    6.6        16.0      33.7       35.9       38.0       40.3       42.7     206.6
BPS-S                                        staffysar       6      12      12     12      12     12      66      178.6     376.1      199.6      423.6      449.0      476.9   2,302.8
BPS-1                                        staffysar       2       4       4      4       4      4      22      50.5      106.3      113.0      119.8      126.9      134.6     651.1
Subtotal Incrmantal Stt aff47.9   1 098.1   1,166.7   1,236.7   1,310.i   1,389.6   6,749.7
B. Works o0n /t                                   lumpaum                                                                -        6.1      152.4     364.0      674.7      606.6   1,702.7
C. Office Expenditures                            lumpsum                                                             63.1      232.8      246.8     261.5      277.2      293.8   1,376.1
0. Building o0n /u                                lumpsum                                                                -       54.2       57.6      73.1       96.8      102.6      384.1
C. Vehioce 004
Double Cab Pickup                              unit           -    1.6       3      3       3      3   13.5           -      102.8     217.1      229.6      243.4      268.0   1,050.9
Itotorcycle                                     unit          -      4       8      8       8       8     36          -       34.3      72.4       76.5       81.1       86.0      3S0.3
Subtotal Vehicle O14                                                                                                     -      137.0     289.4      306.2      324.5      344.1   1,401.2
F. Materiale/Equipmit and Tools OM
Tractor Trailer                                lupsuM         -      2       4      4       4      4      18          -     174.3      367.8      389.0      412.4      437.2   1,780.8
Office Equipment * Furniture Iv                luapsum                                                                -        6.7       8.5       10.5       12.7          -       38.2
All Other Equipment 6 Tools Iw                 luapsur                                                                -       33.2      41.0       49.6       6S.8          -      179.6
Subtotal. atersl/Squipoent and Tools 00.                                                                                 -      214.2     417.3      449.1      490.9      437.2   1,998.6
Total  euret Coost                                                                                                       611.0   1741.3   2.330.1   2,690.4   3,064.9   3,173.8  13 621. 
Total                                                                                                                   7,718.1  43,648.6  32,843.9  33,017.9  21,694.3   3,87S.6 142,398.4
Land Preparation, fencing, irrigation, shds, etc.
\b Unit coats is an average of 504 bareroot, 50t polypot.
\c Approxaimatoly 1000 ha 0 1110 trees/ha with 201 replanting 8 10% transport damage
- 1465 seedlings/ha.
\4 For now species of fast growing trees, shrubs 6 fodder.
\e Lone A is to consist of 1500 ha of the best forests.
\f Zone 8 ccmprises forest area around Ziarat town (about 1000 ha).
\9 Lon C will consist of about 10,000 ha of second-best forests.
\h Check dams, ripping a trenching along contours: vativer grass for erosion control and water
Infiltration development.
\i Development of springs, stream 6 other sources.
\J Including watering.
\k Watering Ca maintenance will be carried out by participants (about 804 of costs).
\1 Implemnts: ripper, doter blade, plough etc.
\m B tours of 2 weeks each.
\n 80 trainees in total.
\o 40 trainees in total.
\p 2 trainees.
\q 2 tours of 1.5 month.
\z 2 courses of 4 sonths.
\s See details in Annex   ----------
\t Oen of fences, border pillars, soil conservation * water works 0 21/yr:                                                                                                                                   tQ  O'
forost tracks 6 paths 8 4%/year.                                                                                                                                                                           *  i. Id
\u Approximtely 11 of capital costs par year.                                                                                                                                                                    (SIX
\v Approximately 2% of capital costs.
\w Approximately 4% of capital costas.                                                                                                                                                                        0  t
Thu Jan 27 08:40129 1994



ANNEX 1
- 58 -                          Table 4
PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Credit Disbursements
IDS Fiscal Year and           IDA             Ctumuative         Percent of
Semester              Disbursements       Disbursements         Credit
(US$ million)      (US$ million)      Disbursed (%)
FY94-2
FY95-1                         0.71'              0.7                 5
-2                        0.3                 1.0                7
FY96-1                         0.5                1.5                10
-2                        1.1                 2.6               18
FY97-1                         1.5                4.1                28
-2                        1.8                 5.9               40
FY98-1                         1.9                7.8                53
-2                        1.9                 9.7               66
FY99-1                         2.1               11.8                80
-2                        1.4                13.2               90
FYOO-1                         0.9               14.1                96
-2                        0.6                14.7              100
j/ Initial deposit into Special Account.



- 59 -                             ANNEX 1
Table 5
PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Credit Funds
(US$ mion)
IDA Credit
Categoy                           Total&'               Amount
1.    Civil, forest and field works        9.1                   8.2
2.    Vehicles, mnotorcycles,              1.0                   0.6'
equipment, fiurniture and
technical books
3.    Consultans' services, studies        2.8                   2.64
and foreign taing
4.    Mass awareness program               0.4                   0.4y
and local training
S.    Incremental salaries and             1.2                   0.9
operating costs
6.    Unallocated                          3.3                   2.1
Total                              17.8                   14.7
I/    Categories l to 4 consist of base costs plus 50% of price contingencies.
21    Credit disbursements would be 90% of ependiures.
3/    Credit disbursements woud be 100% of foreign  epnditures, 100% of ex-factory prices
of locally manufactured tems, and 70% of local costs for imported items purchased
locally.
41    Credit disbursements would be 100% of expenditures less taxes.
5/    Credit disbursements would be 80% of expenditures umtil US$0.32 is disbursed, 70%
until US$0.60 is disbursed, then 50% thereafter.



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
PAKISTAN
BAIOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sand Dane Stabilization on the Mekran Coast
I. BACKGROUND
Sand Dunes and the Mekran Coast
1.01         The Mekran coast is located in the south-western area of Pakistan in Balochistan Province.
The actual subproject area involves the three townships of Pasni, Gwadar and Pishukan, which are the
priority fishing industry area with large ports in the first two townships. The areas are in the western
third of the Balochistan coast, adjacent to the Iranian border, between 25010' and 250151 North latitude
and 62°10' and 63040' East longitude.
1.02         The region is arid with an average annual rainfall of around 100 mm, of which 80% falls
in winter (December to March) and 20% in mid-summer (July and August). The mean, monthly, high
maximum temperature is 42.00 C, in May and the mean, monthly, low minimum is around 10.00 C, in
January. Winds blow for about 50% of the year, from any direction, but prevailing winds are from
W/SW to E/NE. Relative humidity tends to be high (40-75%), because of the proximity of the sea.
1.03         Geological formations in the area are Recent (Pilocene - Pleistocene) and comprise shelly
limestone, sandstone, shale and conglomerates. The soils of these areas are normally composed of coarse
sand, blown inland by strong off-shore winds or weathered from the rock in situ, from which most of
the clay and silt have ben blown away. Sea breezes deposit small quantities of salt in the sand, making
it partially saline. Interdunal area are normally rocky or occasionally of hard clay.
1.04         This area falls into the Tropical Desert Bush formation, according to the Holdridge
system. Ground cover is sparse; indigenous trees and shrubs are commonest along river courses e.g.,
Acacia nilotica, Calotropis procera, Zizyphus mauritania, Tamarindus indica, Phoenix dactylifera,
Arundo donax, Aerua javanica, lpomea carnea fistulosa, Citrullus colocynthis and Calotropis gigantea.
1.05         Economic conditions in the region are poor. There are no railways; towns are linked by
gravel roads (a few tarmac roads occur in the main townships). Airports exist at Pasni, Gwadar, and
Ormara. There is no mains electricity. Water in the area is normally brackish; in towns, freshwater is
carried from reservoirs several kilometers away in underground pipes. Although relatively fresh
groundwater can be obtained at some locations from wells varying in depth from 5 to 15 m down to the
thin freshwater lens overlain the brackish groundwater or wells besides several river beds.
1.06         According to the 1981 census, the population density in this area is less than 10
inhabitants/lm2 and mainly concentrated in the small coastal towns. In 1986, urban populations of the
three townships were estimated to be Pasni: 18,000; Gwadar: 17,000; and Pishukan: 8,000. Most people
are dependent on fishing for their livelihood, and Gwadar, Pishukan and Pasni account for some 60%
of the landed catch of fish in Balochistan. Table I shows for 1989 the landed catch, its value, and its
destination.



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Table 1: 1989 Exuort of Fsh          Fih Prodct  and Uts Value - Balo en
Net Weight               Fresh Weight
Commodity                   (Ton)                    (Ton)                Value (Rs)                Deaitain
Dry Salted Fish                   6,038.418                 20,515.2S4           69,185,447.00        Sent to Karachi
for Sri Lanka
Wet Salted Fish                   1,594.434                  3,188.866           26,926,198.00        Sent to Karachi
Iced Prawn                          308.900                    463.3SO           40,746,783.7S       Sent to Karachi
Dried Prawn                         Nil                        Nil                      Nil          Nil
Iced Lobster                         47.224                    141.762           13,902,487.00       Sent to Karachi
Live Lobster                          0.504                      0.504               20,240.00        Sent to Karachi
Broiled Lobster                      13.532                     27.064            1.887,083.00        Sent to Karachi
Iced Fish                        27,896.538                 27,896.S38          212,370,534.50       Sent to Karachi
Fish Manure                       6,708.011                 20,124.033           36,367,244.00       Sent to Karachi
Fresh Cuttle Fish                     5.000                      5.000              250,000.00       Sent to Karachi
Dry Salted Fish                     117.858                    353.S74            2,516,024.00        Set to Eintebrd
Wet Salted Fish                   1,610.921                  3,221.842           22,223,629.50       Set to Ki,terld
Iced Fish                         7,3a5.816                  7,385.866           58,702,705.00       Set to Hi%erant d
Local Consumntion                 9,272.227                  9,272.227           36,78S,046.00
Total                         61,799.453                 92,695.812          521,883,421.75        Set to itmar,Ld
Fish Maws and Shark Fint             51.180                      -                9,149,580.00        Sent to Karachi
Gr.and. Total                 61,850.633                 92,595.612          531,033,001.75
1.07            Active or moving sand dunes are found in the vicinity of each of the three coastal
townships. They are largest at Pasni where they occur as chains of variable length, 500 m-2.0 km. or
more. Nonnally, dune heights vary from a few meters to a maximum of 25 m, the average being about
17 m. Since 1970, the Balochistan Forest Department (BFD) has done a limited amount of dune
stabilization around these townships. This, however, has been insufficient and moving dunes now
threaten to damage or bury infrastructure and buildings in the three towns.
1.08            The most valuable inftuctural facilities imnediately threatened by moving sand are
the new port at Pasni. The giant sand dune at Pasni, which was partly reforested in 1983, on the
township side, is only 40 m from the fuel depots of the new port. Afforestation around the dune requires
extension and action is needed to fix the bare sand at the top and sides of the dune, by seeding local herbs
and shrubs. Some houses in all three townships and in neighboring villages were buried by sand and
abandoned after several attempts to clear them had failed (parts of Pishukan are now being threatened).
Booral and Liquat villages in the immediate vicinity of Pasni and the village of Chur, further west, are
examples. Afforestation has effectively prevented sand covering the paved portion of the main roads at
Gwadar (12 km) and Pasni (22 kIn), in part, but the remaining stretches of these roads to the airports are
often blocked by sand. The Gwadar/Suntsar road (15 km) and Gwadar/Jiwani road (10 km) are both
blocked occasionally. The latter is cleared by a grader during 4-5 weeks/year at an annual cost of Rs
77,000. Eight kilometers of this road were raised by four feet to avoid being buried by sand at a cost
of Rs 7.6 million, but with limited success. Flights from both Pasni and Gwadar airports can be delayed
or diverted because of sand covering the runways; at Gwadar (approximately 900 passengers each week)
the condition is particularly bad.



- 62 -
AR 2
Page 3
Sand Dune Stabflization
1.09         Sand dune stabilization, by planting trees in or around the dunes, had been practiced in
this region during the past 20 years by BFD. The Forest Conservator for this region is based at Khuzdar;
he has four Divisional Forest Officers (DFO's) at Khuzdar, Turbat, Kalat and Lasbela. The DFO for
the coastal region is at Turbat; he has three ranges each, nominally, in the charge of a Forest Ranger
(RF) at Turbat, Pasni and Gwadar (there used to be a fourth range at Panjur). There are currently eight
Foresters stationed at Pasni and Gwadar.
1.10         Tree planting began at Pasni in 1970, at Gwadar in 1972 and at Pishukan in 1981. There
were failures at the start, but towards the end of the 1970s a successful technique was developed, planting
one species, mesquite, Prosopis julflora, an exotic from south-western USA and Latin America, at 2 x
2 m espacement (up to 5 x 5 m has been employed at Gwadar) and irrigated, for one to three years, with
brackish water. Within the coastal region, a total of 478 ha can be regarded as successfully established,
comprising Pasni: 220 ha (plantations primarily in 1977-87); Gwadar: 230 ha (primarily 1982-88);
Pishukan: 16 ha (primarily 1981/82); Ormara: 6 ha; and Jiwani: 6 ha. There are small, successful
examples of establishment by direct seeding of mesquite and some natural regeneration.
Constaints to Coastal Development
1.11         There have been three major constraints to development of the Mekran coast and its rich
fishery resource. The first has been lack of freshwater, which for some years has been brought in from
outside. The second has been absence of facilities for fishermen and their harvest, now being rectified
with facilities at Pasni, and soon by those at Gwadar. The third is sand movement, which threatens to
destroy water supplies, fishermen's facilities and human occupation itself, and which has been arrested
to a limited extent in certain areas.
1.12         There are two main reasons why sand dune stabilization has had only limited success.
The first, and most important reason, has been insufficient fnancial resources, which has manifested
itself in: (a) shortage of personnel; (b) absence of training in dune fixation; and (c) shortages of all forms
of transport and equipment. These shortages have been exacerbated by a lack of innovative knowledge,
which has manifested itself by the adoption of inadequat techniques and failure to discover new ones,
for example: (a) the selection of only one species of tree for sand fixation, thus promoting a monoculture
with its attendant risks and failing to widen the base for human utilization, for example, provision of fruit
trees, production of browse and protection of grazing for stock; (b) production of weak nursery stock
with spiral rooting; (c) failure to remove polythene bags in their entirety from planted stock, which has
greatly reduced rooting in newly planted trees; (d) absence of espacement trials - all trees at Pasni are
planted too close and established trees are held in check by absence of thinning; and (e) bare sand remains
unstabilized on partially fixed dunes so that there is a constant danger of it overwhelming the stabilization
that has already been accomplished.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
II. THE SUBPROJECT
Objectives
2.01         The subproject iias three main objectives, that is, to:
(a)   protect the dtree townships of Pasni, Gwadar and Pishukan from being damaged and
buried by the moving sand dune;
(b)   conduct research and adaptive trials for introducing new and exotic species of trees,
shrubs and vegetative covers for use in sand dune stabilization as well as for finding
shade, fuelwood and fruit trees and fodders that are salt tolerant and can be grown under
harsh desert condition; and
(c)    plant fuelwood trees on government land and around public buildings and encourage
villagers to do the same around their homesteads (farm forestry), and if possible, to
promote fruit trees growing on private lands.
Subproject Components
2.02         In the furtherance of the above aims, the subproject's components will comprise:
(a)   strengthening of BFD's staff working on the Mekran coast;
(b)   planting of trees, shrubs and vegetative covers on about 5,000 ha to stabilize the sand
dunes and prevent them from moving;
(c)   conducting a research program, including adaptive trials and demonstrations, for
introducing new and exotic species of trees, shrubs and vegetative covers for sand dune
fixation as well as for finding suitable fuelwood trees, fruit trees and fodders that can be
grown under the desert conditions of the Mekran coast;
(d)   promoting the planting of about 50,000 fuelwood and 10,000 fruit trees by organizations
and individuals within towns, and around homesteads, villages and the surrounding
countryside; and
(e)    providing incremental offices, residential houses, vehicles, equipment and tools necessary
for subproject implementation.
Components Description
2.03         Planting Program. There are two parts to this program: the first and largest is the sand
dune fixation, and the second is the private planting of fuelwood and fruit trees. The greatest need under
dune fixation is to widen the species base. The Departnent of Botany, University of Karachi, has already
prepared a report, following five years work on the Pakistan coast,Y which provides considerable data
on tree growth at the coast under saline conditions. It lists 37 tree species commonly grown as
1/    Ahmad, Rafiq (1987): Saline AQriculture at Coastal Sandy Belt. University
of Karachi. 183 pp.



- 64 -
ANNEK 2
Page 5
ornamental and shade species (page 67). It also lists trees that grow well with highly saline irrigation,
for example, Acacia nilotica, Azadirachta indica, Casuarina equisetifolia, Tamanrix indica for fuel or
Sesbania sesban, S. formosa, and Leucaena leucocephala for fuel and forage, Grewia asiatica for fruit
and Eucalyptus camaldulenis for pulp for paper production. With relatively salt-free irrigation, one could
consider Albizzia lebbeck, Parkinsonia aculeata, Pithecolobium dulce and Zzyphus spina-christae.
Several of these species could be used under social or farm forestry as avenue, shade, or ornamental
species. Fruit trees already used in this area include Citrus spp., Mangifera indica, Tamarindus indica
and Anachardium occindentale or Borassus flabellifer.
2.04          Subproject implementation should take about five years, with the first year being used
mainly for preparation works and the remaining four years for the planting program.
Table 2: Sand Dune Fixation Proaram
Area          Yeat 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year 5        total
Pasni            -           400           600           600           400          2,000
Gwadar           -            400           600           600           400         2,000
Pishukan                     200           3CO                                      1  2000
Annual Program   -          X,000         1,S00         1,S00         1,000         5.000
Seedlings for the above planting will be produced in the two nurseries at Pasni and Gwadar. Seedlings
for fuelwood, fruit trees and for research will also be produced there.
2.05          It should be possible to gather all required seeds within Pakistan (in fact, mainly in the
Mekran coastal region) from trees that are already acclimatized. Forest nurseries to be established at
Pasni (2 ha) and Gwadar (3 ha) will be surrounded by a wire mesh fence with an access gate and will
enclose an area for soil mixing (equal portions of clay, sand and manure) before it is added to the
polythene bags (10 x 30 cm in size). Pasni and Gwadar will each have two water tanks, holding
approximately 20 m3 of water, and about 2.0 m high above ground level. PVC tubes of 3.0 cm diameter
will carry water to the beds. Seedlings will normally be irrigated daily, but twice daily may be required
during the summer. They are normally retained in the nursery for three to four months (longer periods
must be avoided to prevent development of spiral rooting in the bags) and are produced twice a year.
2.06          Prior to planting, katcha wells will be dug in the plantation area at a density of about
eight wells/ha, and pits will be prepared for planting. No fencing is foreseen at present. Planting
commences nonmally after the first rains (December and July/August), but this condition is not binding
as hand watering is provided during the first year. Espacement will normally be 2.5 x 3.5 m (1,143
trees/ha), which involves careful replacement of failures (20%) at the next rains.
2.07          Avenue, shade or fruit trees (after proven by research and trials) will be issued to private
individuals or to municipal or government servants, for planting as windbreaks, shade, amenity and fruit
trees, but also to reduce sand and dust movement in townships and villages. One forester per station,
at Pasni and Gwadar, will be in charge of social forestry and research seedlings. They should obtain
estimates of the number of seedlings required by visits to schools, municipal authorities, government
offices, and private homes, prior to seed sowing in the nursery. In the first 2-3 years, to promote and



- 65 -                                  ARM 2
Page 6
encourage plantings, BFD may have to plant some trees as examples for the villagers, but the watering
and caring of the trees should be carried out entirely by villagers, schools, or municipalities.
2.08         Research Program. The final form of the research program will be decided by the
consultant forester, according to project requirements and in discussion with the Botany Department of
Karachi University. In broad terms, however, it will consist of two major subjects:
(a)    species and seedling trials in the Pasni and Gwadar regions, that is, (i) the trial of various
tree or shrub species, mainly for sand dune stabilization but also for fuelwood and fruit
tree private planting (it may be necessary to use better quality water from deep wells for
fruit trees); (ii) dry sowing experiments on dunes or in existing tree plantations, to fix
dunes or create ground vegetation, using indigenous and exotic shrubs, herbs or grasses;
and
(b)    continued studies in existing and potential plantation areas of salinity (soil samples will
be collected and taken back to Karachi for analysis) and means of reducing its effects by
irrigation-leaching and soil amendments. Use of physical barriers to reduce sand blast
and of fertilization to increase tree growth and means of controlling rats or termites in
tree plantations.
2.09         BFD will engage two senior staff members of the Karachi University as Principal and Co-
Principal Investigators and a full-time Research Assistant (RA) as consultants to assist in the research
program. The program would extend over five years. The investigators would visit the study areas
(Pasni and Gwadar) several occasions each year. They would stay at the proposed guest houses.
2.10         Technical Assistance and Training.  Technical assistance and training should be
primarily concerned with launching the subproject in its entirety, that is, dune fixation, social forestry
and the research program. It would be concerned with: (a) planning; (b) initial execution; and (c) in-
service training, and would be best accomplished by an experienced dryland forester with particular
emphasis on desert trees and shrub species. More specifically, his tasks would be as follows:
(a)    Planning of Progam:
(i)    examine and prepare a report on dune movements (if possible, follow-up initial
work of Survey of Pakistan, using aerial photos);
(ii)   prepare an annual planting program for the three areas, considering all priority
areas, including whether or not a shelterbelt should be planted around Gwadar
airport;
(iii)   plan the two forest nurseries at Pasni and Gwadar and proposed cultural practices
to ensure a supply of quality seedlings;
(iv)   produce a program for the digging of wells, planting and irrigation; and
(v)    discuss and finalize with the Biosaline Unit of the Department of Botany,
University of Karachi, the research program objectives and how best to achieve
them.



- 66 -
ANNC 2
Page 7
(b)   Initial Execution of Progra:
assist BFD in procuring vehicles and equipment, organizing construction of buildings and
nurseries, implementing nursery work, organizing planting, and supporting the research
program during the first and the second years.
(c)    Training:
act as the principal instructor for the following courses, which should take place during
the first two years.
(vi)  senior management (DFO and FRs, possibly two courses for one week each).
Lectures and discussions on: dune formation and movement; desertification
problems; environmental impact caused by reforestation; choice of local and
exotic species, seed gathering, conservation; nursery techniques; planting and
irrigation in dune areas. Logistical problems and links between local authorities
and populations will be examined as will topics such as the need for geretic
impnrovement of the trees.
(vii)  skilled field personnel (Foresters, FGs and potential gangers, possibly two
courses of one week each). This group will provide the links between senior
management and labor, and training would be technically oriented on dune
movements, plant species, seed gathering, nursery work, planting, irrigation, and
tree protection.
In addition there will be in-country study tours to observe successful social forestry projects in NWFP
(Malakand Social Forestry Project and Kalam Project) and AJK (ntegrated Hill Farming Development
Project) for the Conservator of Forests (CF), DFO, RFO. Overseas training (mainly short courses and
study tours) on the subject of sand dune stabilization will also be provided for CF, DFO and RFO.



-67 -                                     p  2
Page 8
Table 3: ILrv_mS aNMekuq
No.         No.
Designation              Grade       Required    Exing         Inerement
First Year
Div For Off (DFO)           18             1           0               1
Forest Ranger (FR)          16            2            2              0
Forester (FO)               6             12           8              4
Forest Guard (FG)           2            25           21              4
Assistant (ADmin Officer)   11             1           0               1
Senior Clerk                7             1            0               1
Junior Clerk                 5            2            0              2
Driver (incl Tractors)      5             5            0              5
N. Qasid(Peon)               1            4            3               1
Chowkidar (Guard)            1            2            0              2
Sweeper (Janitor)            1            1            0               1
Table 4: Inremt Buildis Reonured
Area
Buildings                 No.           Location            sq. m
First Year
Office of DFO               1            Gwadar               200
Resident of DFO             1            Gwadar               200
Off/Res of F Rangers        2        Pasni & Gwadar         @ 150
Guest House for
Consultants, etc          1             Gwadar               200
Seed & Equip Stores         2        Pasni & Gwadar          @ 50
Vehicle Sheds               1            Gwadar             @ 160



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9
Ihmple mel t ation
2.11         ImplementatIon Organization. CF Khuzdar will be responsible for implementing the
subproject, while a DFO to be appointed and stationed at Gwadar will serve as the day-to-day manager.
To the extent possible, this DFO should be selected from BFD's existing work force and not be a new
recruit. The two existing FRs stationed at Pasni and Gwadar will assist the DFO. The FR at Gwadar
will also cover the works at Pishukan. The number of Foresters working under FRs will be increased
by four from currently eight to twelve and Forest Guards (FG) from 21 to 25, to cope with the additional
works. Table 3 shows the personnel required to undertake the subproject.
2.12         Buildings, Vebides and Equipment As there are no offices nor residential buildings
for rent in the areas, the subproject will finance a DFO office, office-plus-residence for FRs and guest
quarters for consultants and visitors (for example, supervision missions). All buildings will be in
accordance with the Governnent of Balochistan designs and standards and will be constructed in the first
year of the subproject. Table 4 shows the buildings to be constructed. In regard to vehicles, three 4-WD
double-cab pickups for DFO and FRs and 8 motorcycles (100-125 cc) for Foresters will be provided.
Equipment to be procured will include four sets of 60 hp farm tractors with tanker trailers and farm
implements, pumps, electric generators, some surveying equipment, soil and water testing kits, office
equipment (including a desk top computer and a printer), meteorological observatory equipment, other
equipment and tools (for nurseries and adaptive trials).



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Hazarganji Chiltan National Park Development
I. THE PARK
1.01         Characteristic. Hazarganji-Chiltan national park is a place of natural scenic beauty,
situated about 20 km southwest of Quetta in Northern Balochistan. The park lies just off the main
Quetta-Kalat-Karachi highway. The whole area consists of rugged and dissected mountain ridges varying
in elevation from 1,500 m to 3,300 m. The park itself is 156 sq km in size (including 30 sq km of new
areas added since January 1990) and falls in the Quetta Division (52 sq kIn) and Kalat Division (104 sq
Ian). The climate of the area is characterized by severe fluctuations with temperatures rising to 40°C in
the summer and falling to -120C in winter. Rainfall is scanty with annual precipitation averaging
225 mm, most of which falls in winter between December and March when snow remains on the
mountain peaks.
1.02         Legal Status. Prior to the declaration of the Hazarganji-Chiltan area as a national park
in 1980, the ranges had been subject to heavy human pressure from overgrazing, indiscriminate hunting
and illicit tree cutting. Chiltan Forest had been declared a 'protected forest' in 1964 under the Pakistan
Forest Act of 1927 but this had not been enough to prevent the over-exploitation of the park. Upon
gazettement in 1980, the Balochistan Forest Department (BFD) erected a strong barbed-wire fence along
the lowland southern boundary.  This fence has been an effective barrier, both physical and
psychological, to the local herdsmen and now there are no illegal human residents in the park. Poaching
and other intrusions are strictly prohibited. The land tenure is vested with the provincial government.
1.03         Present Adminisration. The park is administered by BFD, and the present park staff
consist of a Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) (Wildlife), a Sub-Divisional Officer (SDO) (Wildlife), a
Forest Ranger (FR), three Deputy Rangers, 14 Game Watchers and two Forest Guards. These men are
supported by nine complementary staff. Quarters for some of the staff are provided at park headquarters,
just inside the main gate.
1.04         Wildlife. The top ridges of the mountain range are occupied by the unique, endemic
Chiltan Makhor (Capra falconeri-chiaensis), a wild goat with characteristic, swept-back spiral horns.
Before the declaration of the park in 1980, the population of the Chiltan markhor had been reduced by
over hunting (in the period 1950-1970) to about 110 head. Since the park has been fenced, annual
surveys have indicated a regular increase from 115 in 1979 to 424 in 1989. There is controversy as to
whether the Chiltan markhor is a true species, since some authorities believe it to be the result of
hybridization between the Suleiman markhor and the Persian wild goat. There is now some evidence that
the Chiltan markhor population may have reached a plateau and is at the park's maximum carrying
capacity. Other large mammals which occur in the park are jackals (Canis aureus), wolves (Canis lupus),
Hyaena (Hyaena hyaena), and foxes (Vulpes spp). However, all these animals are relatively rare and no
census has been taken. Among birds, chakur (Aleaoris chukar) and sessee partridge (Ammoperdic
griscogularis) are present in abundance. It has been suggested that the urial, long since shot-out in the
area, should be reintroduced into the park.
1.05         Vegetation. The fencing of the park and the exclusion of domestic livestock has resulted
in a dramatic recovery of its vegetation. The area which was previously seriously degraded, now
supports sparse forest cover around the mnllahs (streams/drains). Low altitude scrub forest comprising
Pistacea khinjak and Fraxinus mthoxylioides, constitutes an open canopy over a second story of assorted



- 70-                            ANNEX 3
Page 2
xerophytic shrubs. Juniperus macropoda occurs high on the mountain slopes and is the main browse
plant for the markhor.
1.06         Local Culture. The neighboring areas are occupied by the Shahwani tribe who are
permitted to enter the park to harvest the fruit of Pistacea khinjak in season. No livestock grazing or
wood cutting within the park is permitted. Hazarganji means "thousand treasures" and Chiltan takes its
name from the peak which is a shrine of the local saint Chiltan Baba.
1.07         Tourism. The park is accessible by road fronm Quetta and attracts visitors. Facilities
available at present include a museum displaying some stuffed animals, picnic sites and two rest houses.
The number of visitors has been increasing annually from 36 in 1983-84 to about 2,000 in 1988-89. The
park has considerable potential for tourism and wildlife education and these aspects will figure largely
in the proposed park management plan (PMP).
H. PARK MANAGEMENT PLAN
2.01         Manaemet Plan. During 1989, Mr. Muhammad Shafiq, DFO (Wildlife), prepared
a management plan entitled "Environmental Protection and Improvement of Hazarganji Chiltan National
Park". This plan embraces the main proposals made during 1989 by Mr. Hamid Ali of the National
Council for the Conservation of Wildlife, Islamabad. Both plans call for the development of improved
access, upgrading of the museum and visitor center and improvement of tourist facilities. Habitat
improvement activities (re-vegetation, water development, landscape gardening) and the development of
park administrative structures are also proposed.
2.02         Two IDA missions which visited the park separately, each containing a national park
specialist, have recommended that the park should be developed as a 'Wilderness Park', keeping its
natural scenic beauty with as little human interference as possible. Any habitat improvement should be
limited to the restoration of its natural conditions before illicit tree cutting and overgrazing. However,
considering that the population of Balochistan, and in particular of Quetta, have almost no recreation
facilities, the missions were sympathetic to some of the original Management Plan proposals such as a
visitor's center, including lawns and gardens outside it, picnic areas and some residential quarters
provided that these facilities are located outside the park boundary fence.
]II. THE SUBPROJECT
3.01         Objectives. The subproject objectives are to review and revise the existing PMP, and
then implement the revised PMP components.
3.02         Description. The works to be performed and developed under the subproject are:
(a)    Management Plan.  An expert mission comprising foreign and local personnel
specializing in wildlife and national parks will conduct a reconnaissance survey of the
park, review and revise the plans written in 1989 (para 2.01) and upgraded them into a
draft final plan. This mission will also prepare the detailed terms of reference for an
inventory survey of wildlife and natural resources (habitat) of the park which BFD will
undertake during the subproject's first year. BPD will use this inventory survey to
prepare a resource conservation plan for incorporating in PMP. Ideally this survey



- 71 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
should precede the revision of PMP, however, since this survey has not been done, both
works will be carried out concurrently. The draft final PMP may need some minor
modifications and finalization after the results of the inventory survey are known.
Afterwards the final plan will be submitted to IDA for comments and apprnval before
implementation of the plan can proceed.
(b)    Fencing. With the addition of new areas to the park (para 1.02), and the need to extend
the existing fence southward to the areas where the precipitous nature of the terrain
excludes human and livestock intrusion, BFD will construct an additional length of about
16 km of fencing.
(c)    Water Development. With the park improvements and development of tourist facilities
and staff quarters outside (and adjacent to) the park, the demand for water will increase.
BFD considers the existing capacity of the tubewells situated some three km outside the
park adequate. However, BFD will have to install a storage tank, a booster pump and
pipelines to connect with tourist facilities and staff quarters. As mentioned, BFD will
have to locate all these facilities outside the park's fence to maintain the wilderness
character of the park. Also, BFD will have to design and construct these facilities (for
example, staff houses, visitor center, storage tank, pump house) to blend perfectly with
the environment utilizing materials from the area (rocks and stones). Pipelines will have
to  be  buried.    BFD  will employ  this principle  strictly  throughout the
improvement/development of the park. Wherever possible springs and small creeks
inside the park will be developed/improved.
(d)    Soil Conservation and Erosion Control. With high ridges and steep slopes, mountain
side erosion can be serious at various places. BFD will construct check dams, blending
with the hillside, to serve dual purposes of erosion control and to increase the
groundwater infiltration. If considered appropriate by the expert mission (para 2.01),
BFD may employ other means of erosion control and increased water infiltration such
as growing vetiver grass along contours, constructing low contour ridges, or by ripping
shallow trenches along the contours of the gentler slopes.
(e)    Habitat Improvement. Although since enclosure bushes and grasses in the park have
recovered remarkably, trees and larger shrubs which were cut will take many years to
regenerate. Accordingly, BFD will launch a tree/shrub replanting program as PMP will
propose. The subproject provides funds for this item as well as for other habitat
improvements (for example, water points development, seeding of fodder/grass at certain
places).
(f)    Visitors Center. Currently a museum exists near the park's gate which poorly displays
a few stuffed animals such as markhors, foxes and eagles. The building itself is modern
in style, and whitewashed in stark contrast with the environment and the wilderness
theme. In recent years about 2,000 people visited the park and the museum annually.
The original plan of 1989 proposed to enlarge and upgrade the museum to a Natural
History Museum which would display all kinds of Pakistan wildlife, and include a
reception center, cafeteria, workshop, gift shop, and dispensary. It is now considered
that this proposal is inappropriate and ambitious, that such a museum would better be
located in the city, and that for the park a Visitor's Center aimed at educating the public
and particularly school children concerning the wildlife, geography and environment of



- 72 -
Page 4
Balochistan would be more suitable. There is considerable potential for such educational
activities. Hence it is proposed under the subproject to rehabilitate and transform the
existing museum and expand it into a Visitor's Center (VC). The architectural exterior
of the existing building will be modified to make it blend and match with the
environment. There will be exhibit galleries, display windows, a slide and movie room,
and a storage room, but BFD will not operate commercial activities such as a cafeteria,
gift shop, dispensary and so on. If desired BFD could include in VC a wing of two or
three rooms which BFD could rent to private operators to provide these services. In line
with the concept outlined earlier, BFD will realign the boundary fence s^ that VC is
outside the fenced portion of the park. The subproject provides about Rs 5.5 million to
develop VC, including the exhibits and display facilities. As Hazarganji Chiltan is only
a small national park, it is easy to over-develop the visitors area and provide too many
static facilities.
(g)    Roads and Paths. It is appropriate that the existing gravel road is outside and adjacent
to the fence which is a few kilometers away from the mountain range, the core of the
park. The purpose of the road is for patrolling and preventing people and livestock from
trespassing in the park. The subproject will include the construction of about 16 lan of
new road along the new fence, and some funds for repairing the existing road (equivalent
to the cost of some 8 km of new road). No road will be allowed in the park except
walking paths for park officials and visitors including back-packers. About 30 km of
paths will be constructed altogether within the park. Observation points (very few - two
or three) may be constructed near some paths.
(h)    Reintroduction of Urial.  History indicates that several decades ago, before
indiscriminate hunting destroyed all the herds, urials used to inhabit the park area. The
subproject would study the feasibi!ity of reintroducing urials into the park through
investigating the holding capacity of the park and the number of animals currently
inhabiting the park, the compatibility of markhors and urials, and the suitability of the
park environs for urials. A positive factor for this cohabitation is that markhors prefer
living in the high mountains at elevations of 2,500 - 3,000 m, while urials prefer lower
elevations. An area of some few sq km (to be fenced) has been selected for reintroducing
a few pairs of urial as a pilot scheme, and funds have been provided for this research.
Park authorities, however, will not commence this pilot scheme until they have
undertaken the appropriate studies to determine whether urials can be successfully
reintroduced in the park.
(i)    Vebides and Equipment. The subproject provides funds for procuring two 4-WD
double-cab pickups, five motorcycles and 10 bicycles. Equipment to be procured
includes one farm tractor (70 hp) with trailer and farm accessories, one electric booster
pump, office equipment and furniture, public address system and audio-visual equipment
(TV, VCR, slide and movie projectors) for the Visitors Center, and altimeters,
compasses, camera and binoculars.
(j)    Buildings. The subproject will construct a small office building (it will be decided in the
final PMP whether some two rooms attached to the Visitor's Center will suffice, instead
of a separate building of about 100-120 sq m), houses and staff quarters. Public
recreation facilities, that is, a lawn, small flower garden, picnic area and children's



- 73 -
ANNEX 3
Page S
playground, will also be provided either in the vicinity of the Visitor's Center or the
residential buildings.
(k)    Consultancies and Training. Balochistan has few people trained in wildlife and national
park management. Thus BFD will contract with the World Wide Fund for Nature
(WWF) to provide internationally and locally recruit experts to assist implement the
subproject. Early in the subproject's life, BFD will form a team of specialists, plus BFD
counterpart staff, to: (i) conduct a reconnaissance survey of the park and then revise the
existing management plans into a draft PMP; (ii) prepare terms of reference for the
proposed inventory survey of wildlife and natural resources, and assist manage and
implement the survey; (iii) incorporate the results of the inventory survey into PMP and
finalize PMP's preparation; and (iv) assist BFD implement PMP. WWF's team will
include two members with international experience, that is, a national park management
specialist with extensive experience who would also act as the team leader {8 staff
months (sm)}, and a civil engineer with national park development experience (3 sm).
The team would also include a locally recruited natural resource/habitat improvement
advisor (4 sm), a wildlife management specialist (4 sm) and a sociologist/socio-economist
(6 sm) who, besides assisting with the surveys, would also liaise between BFD and the
local communities.
As there is an acute shortage of trained and experienced personnel dealing with wildlife
and national parks, training is of vital importance. The subproject provides for several
short courses of in-country training at several levels from the Divisional Forest Officer
down to Forest Guards and Game Watchers. WWF will prepare and teach these courses.
Also overseas training by way of study tours of national parks by senior officials,
academic degree in park management and short courses in wildlife and park management
are included.
(1)    Subproject Staff. The total staff required for the subproject will be 42, while the
existing park staff total 31. The subproject will finance only the incremental 11 staff
needed for implementation. The incremental staff includes only one higher level staff,
a grade 16 Curator to organize and manage the Visitors Center while the remaining 10
incremental staff will be lower level personnel ranging from a tubewell operator to
sweepers. The Table below summarizes incremental staff required.
3.03         Implementaton. The subproject implementation period is estimated to be about five and
a quarter years, starting from about April 1994 to ending on June 30, 1999. The first year will be spent
in preparatory work - mapping, procuring vehicles and equipment, reviewing and revising PMP, carrying
out the wildlife and natural resource survey of the park, planning and design of development works,
construction of office, residential buildings and visitors center. The actual implementation of the
development works will begin only in the second year, hopefully early in the year, after IDA approves
PMP. There will be at most approximately four and a quarter years of actual implementation. This
should be adequate as the volume of works is not large.



- 74 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 6
Table Incremengl Staff Regiured
No.          No.
Desipation                Grade         Required     Exising       lcem.
First Year
Division Forest
Officer (DFO)            18              1            1             0
Sub Divisional Officer
(Wildlife)               16             1             1            0
Forest Ranger (PR)
(Wildlife)               16              1            1            0
Curator                     16             1            0             1
Deputy Ranger (WL)           6             3             3            0
Game Watcher                 1            14           14             0
Forest Guard (FG)            1             2            2             0
Driver                       5             3             1            2
Tractor Driver               5             2             1            1
Tubewell Operator            5             2             1            1
N. Qasid (Peon)              1             2             1            1
Chowkidar                    1             4             4            0
Mali                         1             3             1            2
Sweeper                      1             1             0            1
Attendant                                  2             0            2
Total                                  42           31            11
IV. ORGANZATION AND MANAGEMNT
4.01         The administrative organization of the park will remain the same as described in Section
1.03, except that there will be 11 incremental staff. The implementation will be under the direct
responsibility of the DFO who will be the subproject Director, under the supervision of the Conservator
of Forests, Quetta. These officials report to the Chief Conservator of Forests whose office is in Quetta.
This organization structure will rctiiain after the subproject completion, although the number of staff may
be reduced. One of the more important officials holding the key to the park's future success is the
Curator of the visitors center, which through its exhibits, display, lectures, and posters, will attract
tourists and educate the public and school children about Balochistan's wildlife and natural resource
conservation. Hence, it is important to select the right person who has initiative, drive and good public
relations to occupy the post.



75 -
AR 4
PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Rangeland and Wateshed Rehablitation
Pilot Program Objectives
1.01         The Rangeland and Waterslk; Rehabilitation pilot program (RWRP) objectives are to test
the technical, economic and social feasibility of introducing the fodder shrub Atriplex canescens (four-
winged salt bush) into Balochistan's agro-pastoral grazing systems.
Components
1.02         RWRP components are as follows:
(a)    diagnostic survey of five proposed project sites;
(b)    nursery production to supply sufficient atriplex seedlings to plant 150 ha;
(c)    planting about 150 ha of atriplex at five sites in northern Balochistan, that is, some 30
ha at each site;
(d)   improving water infiltration in about 800 ha of micro-catchments through constructing
check-dams, contour ripping, gulley plugging and planting vegetative hedges (vetiver
grass) along the contours;
(e)    procuring one four wheel drive double cab pick up, one 75 hp tractor and implements,
planting tools and sundry other equipment; and
(f)   technical assistance and incremental operating costs.
Implementation
1.03         The Balochistan Forest Department (BFD), with assistance from the Arid Zone Research
Institute (AZRI) and internationally and locally recruited consultants, would implement RWRP. BFD,
in association with AZRI, has selected five project sites throughout the northern and central rangelands
land systems of Balochistan (Brahui-Toba-Kakar ranges). The sites are at Maslakh, Killa Saifullah,
Ziarat, Loralai and Zhob, and are within Balochistan's higher rainfall area (200 to 400 mm).
1.04         BFD would firstly undertake a diagnostic survey of each site so as to better understand
the farming systems, farming system constraints, local resources and economic and social aspects of the
local communities. The :Internationally recruited agricultural economist would organize and run the
diagnostic surveys for BFD. The survey team should have about eight to ten members, and would
include staff from BFD, AZRI and the locally recruited sociologist consultant. The team should include



- 76 -
ANNC 4
Page 2
expertise in the following areas, agricultural economics, livestock, pastures, sociology, crop production
and forestry. The team should complete its work within two months, that is, a review of secondary data,
field work and report writing.
1.05         Following the diagnostic survey, BFD would select from two to ten household cooperators
at each site. BFD would then plant around 30 ha in total at each site. BFD would plant atriplex along
the contours either on or just below the gravelly fans in the drainage of a micro-catchment, or on the
valley floor. The planting could be made into old cultivation areas or into natural pasture. If BFD plants
into natural pastures, it must rip the area first, along the contour. While BFD would supply the atriplex
seedling and plant them, the household cooperators must water (if necessary), protect and maintain them.
The atriplex plantings would be managed as a fodder bank to relieve grazing pressure on the adjacent
natural pastures at selected times during the year.
1.06         Where possible, at about one third to one half of project areas, BFD would improve water
infiltration into the micro-catchments above atriplex plantings. BFD would do this by building check-
dams, ripping along the contour, gully plugging and planting vegetative hedges along the contour. BFD
will do this to see if it is possible to improve water availability for the atriplex, or for other crops.
1.07         AZRI would be BFD's technical adviser regarding all phases of atriplex production,
planting and management, and would record, monitor and eventually evaluate the results of the pilot
program. AZRI would advise on nursery establishment and production, site selection, planting and
fodder bank management. To the extent practical, AZRI would arrange the establishment of the pilot
program so that over time it generated the maximum data on the feasibility of introducing atriplex into
Balochistan's rangelands.



- 77 -                           ANNEX 5
PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Ziarat Juniper Forest Conservation
I. JUNIPER FORESTS
1.01         Balochistan possesses one of the largest areas of one of the most rare forest types of the
world, the arid Juniper (Juniperus Excelsa). It grows in the District of Quetta, Ziarat, Loralai and Sibi,
scattered over some 100,000 ha of mountainous areas, and growing between 1,700 to 3,000 m elevation.
Of these, 50,000 ha of state forest in Ziarat and 10,00') ha state forest in Loralai are the richest
ecologically. The dominant plant species in both these districts is the juniper tree which has survived and
regenerated in this semi-arid area (200-400 mm of rainfall and snow), harsh climatic condition (high
temperature range from -9°C to 27°C) and poor soils (calcareous and shallow) better than any other type
of trees. It is highly Xerophytic with a slower transpiration rate, a lower water content, and a better
control over its stomatal behavior under normal and abnormal conditions than any other competing
species. The tree is extremely slow growing, reaching a height of 1-1.5 m and a diameter of 2.5
centimeters in approximately 60 years. Many of the old trees having a girth of 1.5 m (50 cm diameter)
and over 20 m tall are 2,000 years old and monumental. This growth rate is not surprising given the
harsh climatic and soils conditions of the area. These forests are not only treasures of Pakistan but also
of the world.
1.02         Juniperus excelsa is a medium sized tree; bark reddish brown, exfoliating in fibrous
strips. It has two types of leaves which have a pungent smell. The male trees begin to change their color
at the end of September in lower reaches and in the middle of October at higher elevations. Later on,
the male tree turns pale yellow due to the appearance of male flowers on it. The female trees are
greenish in color. The difference in color of the crown becomes more prominent in December. Male
flowers can be easily seen with the naked eye in January. Female flowers become visible in mid March.
Male flowers become mature from the end of March to the end of April, depending on climatic
conditions. A rise in temperature can accelerate the process. In the meantime, the female flowers
become ready to receive the male flowers' pollen. The trees produce abundant pollen, which can be seen
as a yellowish powder floating in the air. The wood is moderately hard and fragrant and is used locally
for house construction and fuel. Its bark is sometimes used for roofing huts, and the fruit has been used
in the tanning of animal skins. Its wood has also been used in pencil manufacturing.
1.03         Natural regeneration of Jaumperus excelsa is extremely slow. The seed's germinative
capacity is low. Seedling survival is also low due to delayed germination and an inability to establish
easily on dry, poor and thin soil, apart from other reasons of grazing and trampling. The Paidstan Forest
Institute (PFI) has been able, through seed pretreatment experiments, to raise a large number of seedlings.
PFI has planted these in the field and is studying their behavior.



- 78 -                                 ANNEC 5
Page 2
1.04         The associated vegetation in the juniper forests consists of:
Trees:       Fraxinus xanthoxyloides and Pistacia Khinjak
Shrubs:      Artemisia maritimna, Caragna ambigua, Prunus eburnea, Spiraea
bra/nwca, Ephedra nubrodensis, Lonicera quinqutlocularis, Daphne
oleoides, Sophora alopecuroides, Berberis baluchistanica etc
Grasses:     Pennisetum orientale, Stipa pennanta, Dicanthium annulatum, Melia
persica, Chrysopogan montanus, Cymbopogan jawarancusa etc
1.05         The Ziarat/Loralai Juniper Forests has no endemic vertebrate species but has acted as a
corridor for the southward invasion of Sino-Himalayan species able to cope with the harsh dry climate.
Himalayan black bear Selenarctos thibetanus and markhor Capra falconeri both occur as distinctive
subspecies, as well as such birds as streaked laughing thrush Garrulax lineatus, Simla black tit Parus
rwnfonuchalis and bar-tailed tree creeper Certhia himalayana. Other little known species include Pallas's
cat, marbled polecat, Afghan pika, forest dormouse, migratory hamster and breeding birds such as black
redstart and redbilled chough, white-winged grosbeak, olivaceous leaf warbler, plain leaf warbler and
white-cheeked tit. Reptiles include the persian horned viper and Caucasian rock agama lizard.
1.06         The juniper forests not only meet local tribes' requirements for firewood, livestock
grazing, construction timber, fencing, roofing, shelter materials and local medicines, but also provide
some of the few recreational areas available for the people of Balochistan and next door Sindh. Due to
the increasing demand for cultivation land and livestock pressures, the juniper forests are deteriorating
and in poor condition. There is hardly any natural regeneration, and their survival is threatened. There
is concemn within and outside Pakistan about the junipers future and the consequential negative
environmental impacts from their degradation. The problem is compounded by a disease called Dwarf
Mistletoe (Anceuthobiwn oxyce dr) which kills the trees and which has reached an epidemic level in one
valley. Ziarat township is also expanding and encroaching into the forest. The juniper's survival is at
stake.
1.07         The population of Ziarat district is estimated to be 30,000 in winter and 50,000 in
summer, with 30,000 livestock. Of these people, roughly about 25,000 reside in and around the forests.
Hence whatever is to be done in and with the forests, full cooperation and willingness of the people to
participate in the undertaking must be obtained if the subproject is to meet with success. It is also
imperative that the local administration cooperates and participates fully.
II. THE SUBPROJECT
2.01         Objectives. The subproject's main objective is to conserve and manage juniper areas in
a sustainable manner. This subproject, however, should be seen as the first phase of possibly a more
intensive development of the area, or of developing other areas where juniper is growing. The subproject
area, however, covering about 40,000 ha in Ziarat district and 10,000 ha in Loralai district (50,000 ha
total), includes the best remaining juniper stands. Only when this first phase is completed and its results
evaluated would the government consider any further development of this area, or of the remaining
juniper areas.



- 79 -                                      5
Page 3
2.02         Description. Works under the subproject are:
(a)    The subproject area will be divided into possibly four distinctive zones with regard to the
juniper tree population, size, height, quality and health:
Zone A will consist of the best forest area meeting the best criteria above. Zone
A may consist of several separate areas. These areas will be strictly protected
as heritage for future generations. They will be fenced; grazing and lopping will
not be allowed, except for certain periods after some years.  When the
Balochistan Forest Department (BFD) deems appropriate, the area may be opened
for grass cutting by hand and dead branch lopping under strict supervision.
Grazing will be strictly prohibited as it will damage or kill the natural
regeneration. In this first phase, Zone A will comprise about 1,500 ha.
Zone B will be the forest area around Ziarat town of about 1,500 ha. It will be
marked by boundary pillars.
Zone C will be a buffer zone between two other category areas and will consist
of second-best forest of about 10,000 ha marked by boundary pillars.
In both Zones B and C, fodder and grass cutting by hand and lopping of dead
branches will be allowed only as and when BFD considers it appropriate. The
difference between these zones and Zone A is that grass cutting and branch
lopping may be allowed in B and C areas more frequently than in area A.
Zone D would comprise the remaining 37,000 ha. Current rules and regulations
regarding grazing and cutting would be applied more rigorously and a rotating
system for allowing grazing and aeadwood cutting would be established for these
areas.
(b)    Because the subproject will restrict the use of the forests in certain areas (Zones A and
B) and impose a rotational system of use in the others (C and D), other sources of
firewood and livestock fodder will have to be developed to substitute for these resources
lost to villagers. The subproject will test the technical and social practability of growing
community shrub fuelwood plantations to substitute for these lost resources. It will
establish pilot community shrub fuelwood plantations on about 500 ha of open BFD land.
If the project's mid-term review considers these plantations will be technically and
socially successful, BFD will expand them to 1,000 ha during the projects second half.
BFD will also produce and distribute 100,000 fuelwood seedlings to individuals and
groups to plant around their homesteads or villages. Nurseries will be established to
produce seedings for all these plantings. One half of the seedlings produced will be bare-
root while the other one-half will be produced in polythene bags called polypot. The cost
of production of bare-root seedlings is Rs 0.70 per plant while that of polypot is Rs 1.75
per plant, with an average combined cost of Rs 1.23 or rounded to Rs 1.25 per plant.
The cost of planting and watering the plants for about 2-3 years until their survival is
assured is estimated at Rs 40,000 per ha. About 70% of this cost is solely for watering.
Besides the species Rubinia psueducacia, Ailanthus altissima, Eucalyptus camaldulensis,
Salix sp, BFD will mainly plant the shrub Atriplex canescens and the tree Prosopis



- 80 -
Page 4
juliflora. Other tree species, indigenous and exotic, relevant to the site will be
researched and trialed, including possibly some species of grass and fodders;
(c)    soil conservation and erosion control in the forests will include check dams, ripping along
contours to create small bunds and shallow trenches to increase groundwater infiltration,
planting of vetiver grass, hedges and so on. Total areas for this work is estimated at
10,000 ha;
(d)    development of springs, stream and other water sources at approximately 10-12 locations;
(e)    construction of forest tracks (35  man) and paths (75 kIn) to facilitate working,
transportation and communications in the forests;
(f)    public awareness campaigns to educate and inform officials, villagers, students and the
public at large about the juniper forests and the importance of conserving it for posterity
as well as to encourage their cooperation and participation in the subproject. The
campaign will use appropriate media to transfer its messages, such as short programs on
radio and television, billboards and posters and other audio-visual means. The program
will also promote and encourage domestic energy saving devices such as improved
cooking stoves and the use of gas in place of firewood; and
(g)   the subproject will also provide staff offices and houses, vehicles, equipment, tools,
technical assistance, training and incremental staff and operating costs.
2.03         Consultancies. At the start of the subproject implementation there will be a diagnostic
survey of the subproject area to review the objectives, strategies and development program. Three staff-
months of internationally recruited consultants and three staff-months of local consultants together with
specialists from PFI and the Arid Zone Research Institute (AZRI) with senior BFD officials will conduct
this survey and draw up the final plan/program for the conservation and management of the forests.
After the plan has been approved by IDA, implementation will begin. Two specialists, a commnunity
forester, and a Juniper/Mistletoe Disease specialist will be employed to advise and assist the subproject.
An experienced local sociologist will also be employed to work on the public awareness campaigns and
public relations with villagers and local organizations and local administration officials.
2.04         Trainlng. To raise the quality and knowledge of BFD staff working on the subproject,
in-country training on the conservation and management of forests will be given to both high and middle
level officials (DFOs, FRs) and low level staff (Foresters and Forest Guards). Study tours to visit
successful social forestry projects such as the Malakand and Kalam Social Forestry Projects, Sarhad Rural
Support Project in NWFP will be conducted for high and middle level officials. Overseas training will
include study tours for high/middle level officials and two officials for short courses (3-4 months) in
forestry.
2.05         Subproject Staff.  The number of staff at all levels required for the subproject
implementation is 95, while the existing nmmber currently employed is 61. Therefore the incremental
number required is 34. The subproject will finance only the incremenal staff. The Table below details
the number of existing staff, staff required to undertake the subproject and incremental staff BFD will
hire.



-81 -                                        5
Page 5
Table: hw=NWlStaflf       gk,4
No.          No.
Designton                 Gade         Required      Existing     1nVuu
First Year
Divisional Forest Officr
(DFO)                        18             2            1            1
Forest Ranger (FR)                 16             4             2           2
Forester                            6             12            8           4
Forest Guard (FG)                   2            47            42           5
Steno-Typist                       11              1            0           1
Assistant                          11             2             1           1
Senior Clerk                        7             2             1           1
Junior Clerk                        5              4            1           3
Driver 5                            5             0             5
Tractor Driver                      5             4             0           4
N. Qasid                            1             6             3           3
Chowkidar                           1             4             2           2
Sweeper                             1             2             0           2
2.06         Implementation Peiod. BFD will implement the subproject over about five and a
quarter years, starting from around April 1994 and ending on June 30, 1999. The first year will be spent
mainly in preparatory work, such as, mapping, the diagnostic survey, procuring vehicles and equipment,
and the tendering of offices and houses. The actual implementation of subproject works will begin early
in the second year and will be spread over the next four and a quarter years. This time is adequate for
the volume of works involved.



- 82 -
ANNEKC 6
Ta~ble 1
PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Foreign and Local Traing
Foreign Training             LA  Training
MSc  Short-Term      Study Tour   Short-Term   9hly Tor
Agency/Subproject   (No) (saff month)    (staff day)         (staff day)
1.    ES             1         15              -             300          -
2.    BEPA           1         15              -              540         -
3.    BFD            2          3              -            1,120         -
4.    BFD/SDS         -         6             60              370        60
5.    BFD/HCNP       1         12            120            1,645         -
6.    BFD/ZJFC        -         8             90            1,820       224
Total          5         59           270             5,795      284



- 83 -                                                ANNEX 6
Table 2
PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Foreign and Local Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance
Internationally         Locally
Institution/Expertise                                            Recruited          Recruited
----(staffmonths)--
1,       Environmetal Secdon. P&D
(a) natul esource management experts                                    4                3
(b)  ainnh experts                                                      3                3
Subtotal ES                                                   7                 6
2.       BEPA
(a) indusal and urban wae disposal expers                               4                4
(b) environmentlissElA procedures                                       4                4
(c) taining expes                                                       2                2
(d) mess awareness experts                                              3                3
(a) legal experts                                                       .                3
Subal BEPA                                                   13                16
3.       Balochistan Forest Department
(a) Stengdhing BFD
monitoring and evaluation expert                              3                 6
(b) Sand Dune Stabilization
(i) -and dune stabilization specialist                        6                 -
(ii) sociologist                                               -               12
(iii) University of Karchi
botanist                                                  -                7
- soui sal     expert                                     -                7
r research feliows/assistants                             -               20
Subtotal                                                      6                46
(c) Hazaanji-Chiltan National Park Development
(i) park mnagement planner/teamlender                         8
(ii) nat res/habitat hnprovement advisor                       -                4
(iii) wildlife management specialist                           -                4
(iv) recreational development                                 3                 -
(v) sociologist/socio-economist                                -                6
Subtotal                                                     it                14
(d) RangelanWrsh  Rehabitao
(i) ag economist/diagosticsrey                                3
(ii) sociologist                                               -               12
(iii) AZRI                                                     .                ,
Subtotal                                                      3                12
(e) Zinata J-nniper Fotest Con sevation
(f) ag conomistfdiagnosticsutvey                              3                 3
(ii) commuit forester                                         2
(iii) juniper/misdetoe disease spec.                          2                 -
(iv) sociologist                                               -               45
(v) Pakisn Forest Institute                                                    12
(vi) AZR1                                                      -               12
(vii) civil ege                                                                 6
Subtotal                                                      7                78
Subtotal BFD                                                 30               156
Total Project                                                SO               178
/a       Lump sum for salaries, honorari, TA/DA. Labor and other tesearch costs.



-84-                                       ANNEX 7
PAISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMEN PROJECT
Program of Early Events
Key Tasls                           DaSes          Agency ltesponsble
1.     Project Launch                            04/10-2619'4    ES
2.     Procring  services  from   intemational
consdting firm and WWF:
(a)    requet proposas                   07/25194         E S   w o u l d
(b)    receive proposals                 09/02194         coordinte the
(c)    determine winning proposal         10/31/94        recruiting   of
(d)    sign contract and in field no later   12/31/94     international firm
than                                              while BFD would
recruit WWF
3.     Procuring local research agencies, that is:
(a)    AZRI to assist with RWRP;                          BFID   would
(b)    PPI and AZRI for AZJFC; and                        procure  these
(c)    UOK for SDS                                        services
(i) request proposas              07/25/94
(ii) sign contas no later tban    12/31194
4.     Recuitng and placing additional staff:
(a)    key staff for FS                  Bd. Pres         P&D
(b)    balance of ES staff               09/30/94         P&D
(c)    staff for BEPA                    09/30194        BEPA
(d)    staff for BPD                     09/30/94         BFD
5.     Commence diapostic studies:
(a)    hire eonsutants                   12/31/94         ES
(b)    complete secondaty data collecdon    01/31/95      B F D   w o u I d
(c)    complete field work               02/2895          produce diagnostic
(d)    finalie report                    03/31(95         studies
6.     Establish seedling nurseries:
(a)    SDS                               07/94            BPD
(b)    RWRP                               10194           BFD
(c)    ZJFC                               11/94           BFD



PAKISTAN
BALOCEISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement Implemenation Schedule
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Year                      Total
Procuremet Elent                      Agency               FY94 FY95 FY6 FY97 FY98 FY   Payment    Remarks
1. civil Wotb                         BEPA,BFD             0.03     0.75    0.30    0.09    0.03       -        1.20            LCB
2. Forest Wotb                        BPD                  0.03      1.30    2.30    2.60    2.20      0.47     890            foce accout
3. Pidd Wobs                          DFD                  0.02     0.30    0.35    0.35    0.20       0.08     1.30            foce account
4.   a &Eqipmn
Veh, motcyle, ttors          ES, BEPA. BPI         -        0.80     -       -       -         -        0.80           IC8
poluon eqp                   BEPA                           0.10     ^               -         -        0.10           LCB
Equip, man froae             ES, BEPA. BPD         -        0.05    0.07    0.05    0.02      0.01      0.20           pudent shopping
5. ConsuntServices                    ES, MA, BFD          -        0.96    0.40    0.22    0.08       0.04     1.70           Intnmaonally & locally rewuited 
6. Studies                            ES                   -        0.15    0.15    0.15    0.15                0.60            lnuatoally & loalty recued             0
7. Traini                             ES, BEPA, D          0.01     0.15    0.22    0.19    0.07       0.06     0.70            suloectoJDA's appoWa                   U'
8. MassAwsmSS                         ES                            0.08    0.10    0.10    0.12       .        0.40            nonnalGO9alprocedusm.IDA'sappmoval
9. Iucrem Salaries awl
Opatng Cos                    ES, BEPA. BFD       0.09      0.28    0.36    0.37    0.40      0.40      1.90           normal GOB I ptocedures
ToWal                                             0.18      4.92    4.25    4.12    3.27      1.06    17.8D
(IDA-Piaced)                                      (0.07)   (3.89)  (3.61)  (3.54)  (2.78)   (0.81)  (14.70)
co



- 86 -
ANNE 9
PAKISTAN
BALOCMSTAN NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Bank Spervision Input into Key Activfties
1.           The staff input indicated in the attached Table "Bank Supervision Input into Key
Activities" is in addition to the regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement
actions, correspondence and so on. For this project, staff estimate the annual regular supervision input
as five staff weeks (sw) in the project's first year, four sw in the second, and two sw for the remaining
period.
Borrowers Contribution to Supervison
2.           Beginning with the semester ending December 31, 1994, project implementing agencies
will submit six monthly project progress reports not later than end-February and end-August each year
during project implementation. BEPA will be responsible for collating its own and BFD's progress
reports, and submitting them to IDA. BFD will be responsible for ensuring that each of the four natural
resource rehabilitation subprojects prepares a progress report and submit it to BEPA. BFD will also be
responsible for ensuring that each subproject establishes an approprkte monitoring system.
3.           BEPA will be responsible for coordinating and arranging supervision mission itineraries
and wrap-Up meetings. Both BEPA and BFD representatives will accompany IDA staff during
supervision missions, while the Additional Chief Secretary, BP&D, will normally chair the wrap-up
meeting.
4.           To facilitate project start-up, BEPA, BFD and IDA would organize a project launch
workshop.
Key Inicators
5.           Some of the possible key indicators of project implementation progress, which supervision
missions should monitor, include:
(a)   Instional She              (i) nmnber of incremental staff recruited and in place;
(ii) completion of training skill-gap analysis; (iii) nunber of staff trained; (iv) technical
assistance supplied; and (v) review of work program development;
(b)    SDS: (i) area of sand dunes planted; (ii) number of seedlings distributed to and planted
by communities; and (iii) research progress;
(c)    HCNP: (i) completion and IDA clearance of PMP; (ii) PMP implementation (civil works
and so on); (iii) nuber of staff trained; and (iv) number of annual park visitors;



- 87 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2
(d)    RWRP: (i) completion of diagnostic surveys and project detailed design; (ii) area of
atriplex canescens planted; (iii) area of micro-catchment improved; and (iv) review of
AZRI monitoring reports; and
(e)    ZJFC: (i) completion of diagnostic surveys, forest inventory, zoning proposals and
project detailed design; (ii) area of community shrub fuelwood plantations planted;
(iii) number or area of soil erosion works completed; (iv) number of seedlings distributed
to and planted by communities; and (v) number of buildings and kan of forest tracks and
paths constructed.



- 88 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3
i    I'z  10   'l
i! .    X1I       |tif  flijI
X ,   X  ~INg  '   ]X      ] jl~ j i i
1111  iii  hIf             I I



- 3') -
ANNEX 1 0
PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Economic Internal Rates of Return
I. Economic Analysis of the
Mekran Coast Sand Dune Stabilization Subproject
1.01         Pending a detailed inventory and mapping of the subproject areas of Pasni, Gwadar and
Pishukan, it can be shown that to justify the cost of the proposed works the area of infrastructure
protected by the plantings would not need to be relatively large.
1l.02        The total current population of the subproject areas is estimated to exceed 100,000. This
figure would represent approximately 14,290 households, the housing of each would cover an area of 10
m2 or more. As an initial estimate, a figure of Rs 4,000 per square meter was used to value the present
replacement cost of this h_using. The coastal population is assumed to be growing at an annual rate of
3 percent.
1.03         It is estimated that periodic pruning of the prosopis planted to stabilize dunes would
eventually lead to the production of about ton of fuelwood per hectare ten years after planting. As the
proposed planting density ranges between 1,150 and 1,300 trees per hectare, this yield represents an
average annual harvesting of less than 3 kilograms of wood per tree. At full development (after project
year 15), the total area planted in prosopis is expected to produce about 5,000 tons of fuelwood annually.
This production would be valued at about Rs 6.25 million.
1.04         The planted areas are expected to shelter areas three times as large in advance of the
dunes. This means that the proposed works of 5,000 ha would have a protective catchment of about
15,000 ha. The analysis moreover assumed that if even the plantings could constitute effective barriers
earlier, their protective utility would not be required until ten years after their establishment. Full
realization of the protective benefits would therefore not occur before years 12 through 16 of the project.
1.05         The critical question then is whether or not the value of infrastructure protected within
the catchment would be worth the proposed level of effort. Taking into account the direct fuelwood
benefits of the plantings themselves, it can be shown that if after 15 years the effort would prevent annual
damage to housing covering 0.005 percent of the total catchment area, or 18,750 m2, and having a total
value of Rs 75 million, the rate of return to the subproject, given total base costs of Rs 173.4 million,
or US$ 6.5 million, would about equal the target cutoff of 10 percent. In terms of total area of housing,
the minimum area of housing in the catchment area, valued at Rs 4,000 per square meter, required per
year to justify the subproject would be less than 10 percent of the total area of housing estimated for the
projected population.
1.06         In practice, not all of the structures protected within the catchment would be houses
valued at Rs 4,000/m2, but would also include plants such as the new port facilities at Pasni; the airport
at Gwadar; Gwadar's old port facilities, water supplies in each of the three areas; and sections of metalled



- 9q -
ANNEX 10
Page 2
roads. These items would easily much increase the level of protection benefits estimated here.
Moreover, apart from preventing structural damage, the plantings may also avoid the annual operation
and maintenance costs of working as many as five bulldozers for 30 days. At an estimated economic
value of Rs 375 per hour, the cost of employing this machinery could amount to about Rs 4.5 million
a year.
1.07        In view of these estimates, it is very plausible that the economic performance of the
subproject would be satisfactory even without the realization of fuelwood from the dune plantings.!
II. Economic Analysis of the
Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park Subproject
2.01        The economic analysis of the proposed development of the Hazarganji-Chiltan National
Park is an adaptation of the "new" benefit-cost analysis presented in Fisher, Krutilla and Cicchetti~;
Krutilla and Fisherl'; and Porter4. Additional information about the approach may be found in Barrett,'.
In an effort to account for uncertainties in the estimates, key values in the analysis were modelled as
random variables following defined probability distributions. A number of runs of the analysis were then
made, allowing the risk values to vary within limits with frequencies defined by their probability
distributions, to generate a distribution of internal rates of return. The distribution in turn provided the
basis for a calculation of the expected internal rate of return.
2.02        The approach employs a measure of consumer surplus, which is calculated as the area
under an estimated demand schedule for visits to the park. Over time, the preservation benefit grows as
the demand schedule shifts according to the rate of growth in demand for the services rendered by the
park at zero price (until capacity is reached) -- shifts in the horizontal, or quantity, component of the
demand schedule -- and according to increases in the willingness of consumers to pay to visit the park -
- shifts in the vertical, or price, component of the demand schedule.
It can also be noted that the analysis has not considered benefits from the
social forestry component, which should further contribute to the rate of return.
4.' A.C. Fisher, "The Economics of Environmental Preservation- A Theoretical and
Empirical Analysis." American Economic Review, 64 (September 1972), pp. 605-19.
2' J.V. Krutilla and A.C. Fisher, The Economics of Natural Environments; Studies
in the Valuation of Commodity and Amenity Resources, 2d printing, rev. ed.
(Washington, D.C.: Resources for the Future, 1985).
4/ R.C. Porter, "The New Approach to Wilderness Preservation Through Benefit-
Cost Analysis." Journal of Environmental Economics and Management, 9 (1982), pp.
59-80
5.' S. Barrett, "Economic Growth and Environmental Preservation." Journal of
Environmental Economics and Management, 23 (1992), pp. 289-300.



- q1 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3
2.03          The horizontal shift comes about partly through population growth. As long as growth
in the economy's real income matches growth in the population, and barring changes in how income is
distributed, the number of consumers wishing to visit the park will increase commensurately. Further
shifts out along the quantity axis may be attributed to the evolution of preferences in response to
improvements in the quality of the recreation experienced, and/or to changes in preferences linked to
changes in incomes. In practice, the estimate of the horizontal shift in the demand schedule is not as
important as the vertical shift. As more visitors gradually come to the park, a point will be reached
where additional use of park would affect the quality of the habitat, or congestion may detract from
visitors' personal appreciation of the recreation offered by the park setting. In any case, since there is
a predefined capacity of the park, the larger the growth in the annual horizontal shift of the demand
schedule, the earlier this constraint will be reached, curtailing the growth of preservation benefits in
following years.
2.04          In the analysis here, the horizontal shift ranges from the rate of growth of the population,
three percent per annum, to ten percent. Specifically, without the project, the horizontal intercept was
considered to shift at the population rate, and to continue at this rate with the project until the fifth project
year. Starting with the sixth project year, the shift was considered to be a random variable, normally
distributed between four and ten percent. A transition occurs in year five, when the two underlying rates
are averaged. Ornce the park's capacity is reached, the annual shift gradually falls to the population rate
over a period of five years.
2.05          The vertical shift occurs because the price of the park service, as, for example, expressed
as the willingness of individuals to pay to visit the park (in terms of transportation costs, other costs
incidental to visits, and perhaps some opportunity costs), relative to the composite price of other
producible goods in the economy, is increasing simply because the amenity service itself is becoming
relatively more scarce. In particular, it has been argued that the change in the relative price of amenity
services can be related to the rate of technical change in the sector of producible goods, broadly defined,
because of the following conditions: an income elasticity of demand for amenity services that is large
relative to goods in the producible goods sector, the absence of satisfactory substitutes tor the amenity
services, and the difficulty of tecnnically reproducing the amenity services.Y As a proxy measure for
the technological advance in the economy, the analysis here has used as a central value the annual growth
in value added in manufactured goods, which has averaged 6.7 percent since the 1970s.1' In the
analysis, the vertical shift was allowed to vary around this value in a normal distribution having maximum
and minimum values of plus and minus 25 percent.
2.06          For the first two years the analysis assumes no difference in the growth of preservation
benefits as the implementation of the park's management plan gets under way. In years three to five, the
underlying shifts in the demand schedule are the same with or without the project, the analysis considers
an additional outward shift in the demand schedule with the project as result of improvements to the park
1I  See Krutilla and Smith, op.cit.,  p. 129; and V.K. Smith, "the Effect of
Technological Change on Different Uses of Environmental Resources," in Natural
Environments; Studies in Theoretical and Applied Analysis, ed. J.V. Krutilla
(Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press:1972).
21 World Bank. "Pakistan: Current Economic Situation and Prospects."



- 92 -
ANNEX 1 0
Page 4
and the quality of the amenity's recreational experience. The shift in the third year was initially set at
a base value of five percent, but was allowed to vary around this value randomly by as much as 25
percent. Similarly, there are random shifts in years four and five having means of 10 and 15 percent
respectively.
2.07           In summary, the movement of the horizontal and vertical intercepts in the analysis
proceeds as follows:
P0   initial vertical intercept
Qo - initial horizontal intercept
r- rate of vertical shift
r, = rate of horizontal shift
rp   population growth rate
k,,. year in which the park reaches capacity with the project
k., = year in which the park reaches capacity without the project
S3 - demand schedule shift in project year 3
S4 = demand schedule shift in project year 4
Ss = demand schedule shift in project year 5
Bt = preservation benefit in year t



- 93 -
ANNEX 10
Page 5
with the project:
PI = project year 1 vertical intercept   Po*(l + ry)
P2 = P,*(1+ry)
P- = P2*(1+rY)*(l +S3)
4 = P3*(1+ry)*(l+S4)
PS = P4*(1+ry)*(l+S.)
then for t > 5
P, = P, ,*(l+ry)
as long as k., > 5
Q, = project year 1 horizontal intercept = QO*(1 +rp)
Q2 = Q,*(1+rd
Q3 = Q2*(1+rp)*(1+S3)
Q4 = Q3*(1 +rp)*(1 +S4)
QS = Q4*(1 +rp)*(1 +S)
Q6 = Q,*(1+(rp+rx)/2)
for 6<t< or = k.
Qt = Q,-I*(l+rx)
for t> L.
Q, = Q, ,*(l +g,) where g& = r.*(l +d)tk
and d = [r/rxj"(5k) - 1
for t < or = kw
B, = 0.5*P,*Q,
for t > k,
B, = 0.5*P*Q  - 0.5*(Q, Qk)Z*P/Q;
without the project:
P,= P,,*(l +ry)
Q= Q, , +rp
for t < = kw,
B, = 0.5*P,*Q,
for t > ko
B, = 0.5*Pt*Q, - 0.5*(Q, - Q02*p,/Q,;



- 94 -
ANNEX 1 0
Page 6
2.08          For small shifts in the vertical and horizontal components of a linear demand schedule.
the change in the preservation benefit is approximately the sum of the rates of growth of the two
components.
2.09          The demand schedule itself is not known with precision, but at present the park receives
about 1800 visitors per year!' at an estimated cost of Rs 125 per visitor. This cost is an estimate based
on transport charges, incidental expenses for food and some measure of opportunity cost for the time
spent in recreation. The initial price vertical intercept can then be estimated by the relation:
Pn = 125/(s*1800)
where s is the initial slope of the demand schedule. Since the demand for the amenity services for the
park is plausibly very elastic, the slope was considered to lie between zero and -0.05. At a slope of -
0.05, the initial vertical intercept would fall at about twice Rs 125, implying that at 11is cost there would
not be any visits to the park, which is plausible.2' Below -0.05, the cut of cost approaches Rs 125, and
at the same time, the initial preservation benefit increases. Actually, in the analysis, the initial slope is
not permitted to fall below -0.001 since at this magnitude zero demand is very near the initial pairing of
1800 visitors and Rs 125 per visit. By restricting the slope to be below -0.001, one could avoid very
large initial benefits skewing the results of the simulations. Lacking other information, the slope was set
to range randomly between -0.001 and -0.05 a-cording to a normal probability distribution centered on -
0.0265.
2.10          The following table sununarizes the input assumnptions used to run a set of Monte Carlo
simulations of the model described above:
variable base value probability distribution minimum maximum
s    -0.0265    normal        -0.0500 -0.0010
r,   0.067      normal        0.0525 0.0838
r.   0.075      normal        0.0400 0.1000
S3   0.05       normal        0.0375 0.0625
S4   0.10       normal        0.0750 0.1250
Ss   0.15       normal        0.1125 0.1875
Minimum and maximum values represent deviate from the mean by minus and plus three standard
deviations.
2.11          Using the base values, the rate of return is estimated at 10.4 percent. The year in which
the capacity of the park would be reached is around project year 20.
1/  Calculated at an average of 6 visitors per day over 300 days.
A visitor is considered to be 1.5 adults, or 1 adult and two children.  At
a cost of Rs 125 per visitor, a family of 2 adults and 4 children would then
spend about Rs 250, which would be just over four times the wage rate of casual
rural labor.



- 95 -
ANNflX 1 0
Page! 7
2. 12        Two hundred-fifty simulatioins of the model were run maintaining project costs at their
base levels. The runs generated an expected rate of return a little under 10 percent (with a standard
deviation of less than one percent). Next, all costs were increased uniformly by 25 percent, and the
expected rate of return fell to 8 percent. A uniform decrease of 25 percent in costs increased the
expected rate of return to 12 percent. Allowing costs to vary independently year by year by as much as
50 percent of their base values again generates an expected rate of return of about 10 percent.
2.13         The parameters used in the simulations were set rather conservatively. Despite the
pessimistic bias and the number of uncertainties, the results here indicate that the subproject is likely to
bear a satisfactory econornic rate of return.
III. Preliminary Assessment of the
Rlangeland Rehabilitation Pilot Program
3.01         This pilot subproject would attempt to harness the potential of selected micro-catchments
to provide seasonal minor irrigation through the construction of check dams, contour trenching and/or
percolation ditches and the application of other water harvesting/conservation techniques. Shrubs of
atriplex, or 'four-wing saltbush', would be planted along contours on slightly sloping areas in the
drainage of the improved micro-catchments. The plantings can form either fodder banks, or, where
feasible, established with a cash intercrop such as melon or cumin. A full economic analysis of such
efforts will not be possible until after the trials are begun, but the results of recent work undertake by
AZRI and the IGPRA II provide an indication of the relative magnitudes of the costs and benefits under
investigation. This analysis assumes that the subproject would undertake micro-catchment land
improvements for every ha of atriplex planted. In actual implementation the program would only do
micro-catchment improvements for about half of the atriplex area planted. Where micro-catchment
improvements are nov undertaken, costs and benefits would be roughly halved. Thus the expected
economic rate of return for this area could be comparable to the rates estimated.
3.02         As a working figure, it has been assumed that ratio of the area of micro-catchment land
improvements to down-stream productive area is 10:1. That is, every hectare of fodder development will
require the drainage of up to 10 ha micro-catchments. Land works in micro-catchments are estimated
at an average cost of Rs 2,000 per hectare. Over ten hectares, the development cost is therefore Rs
20,000. The cost of establishing atriplex is estimated at Rs 1.23 per plant for nursery expenses and Rs
2.5 per shrub for establishment costs, including ground preparation, planting and initial watering. In the
better range areas where the subproject will be implemented, the planting density per hectare of pure
fodder bank is expected to be about 5,000 shrubs (a spacing of about 1 x 2 m)!V.  Including a
contingency of 20 percent for replacements, the cost of this development is estimated to be about Rs
20,000. The total cost of the hectare of atriplex including the cost of subwatershed improvements is
therefore expected to be approximately Rs 40,000.
1/  In some areas where the development  of some minor irrigation would be
possible, the pattern may be atriplex intercropped with a cash crop such as melon
or cumin.



- 96 -
ANNEX 10
Page 8
3.03         The fodder production of one hectare of atriplex established under these conditions should
amount to 5.5 tons a year, depending upon rainfall. The value of this forage would be estimated at Rs
6,875. A quantity of fuelwood would also be harvested from the stand which may amount to 0.5 kg per
snrub every other year, or on average 0.25 kg per shrub annually. The value of the 1,250 kg of
fuelwood produced on average each year would be estimated at Rs 1560. Together, the direct production
benefits of a hectare of established four-wing saltbush should reach about Rs 8,440.
3.04         Indirectly, the production of the 5.5 tons of fodder could be expected to relieve grazing
pressure on an adjacent 8 to 10 ha tract of rangeland. The reduction of pressure may allow the
productivity of the range to improve by as much as 150 kg of dry matter per hectare. The additional
benefits would be about 1.2 tons of forage valued at Rs 1,50O'.
3.05         Finally, the micro-catchment works should also improve ground water recharge over the
area, estimated here at a rate of 60 additional cubic meters per hectare per year. The economic value
of this water is bound to exceed WAPDA's cost of providing supplies at about Rs 10/m3, which does not
take into account the collective impact of individual consumption upon remaining ground water reserves.
At present, an overall net mining of aquifers is believed to be occurring in the Quetta valley and other
basins. At Rs 10/nI , the value of the increase in ground water through the subproject works would be
approximately Rs 6,000 over the unit of ten hectares.
3.06         In total, the annual benefits at full development from ten hectares of micro-catchment land
improvements and one hectare of fodder/intercrop production is expected to be around Rs 16,000. Full
development, moreover, is expected to be rapid. Compared to the development cost of Rs 40,000, these
benefits imply a rate of return that is likely to exceed 30 percent. If one were to consider the total base
project expenditures of Rs 13.8 million for the proposed pilot program as it stands, the imputed cost per
unit of ten hectares of land works and one hectare of fodder would be about Rs 92,000, rendering a
return to the initial development of 1,500 ha of micro-catchments and 150 ha of fodder banks of about
15 percent.
IV. Economic Analysis of the
Conservation and Management of Juniper Forests Subproject
4.01         The quantified benefits for this subproject included estimates of: (1) the consumer surplus
afforded by the amenity services of the juniper forests with and without the subproject; (2) incremental
production of fuelwood plantations and social forestry; (3) avoided productivity losses in orchards and
rainfed grain cultivation due to periodic flooding; and (4) incremental fodder production. The benefits
of the development of water for household and agricultural use, although bound to be present, were not
estimable. This component, about 1 percent of total subproject costs, was not, however, separated from
the rest of the development costs of the subproject.
1/   Project benefits  from the production of fodder banks are potentially
significantly higher if, instead of valuing only the quantity of forage produced,
the analysis were to consider the dynamics of grazing where, as a consequence to
the project's increased availability of fodder and improved animal husbandry, the
value added to livestock production increases.



- 97 -
ANNEX 10
Page 9
4.02          The modelling of these benefits generally involved the specification of one or more key
parameters which were allowed to take on values randomly within specified ranges according to a normal
probability distribution. A number of simulations were then run to derive an expected intemal rate of
return.
4.03          The procedure for estimating the consumer surplus associated with the recreational use
of the juniper forests is similar that used in the analysis of the Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park. Here,
it was estimated that about 7,500 visitors presently come to the Ziarat area over a period of 150 days,
spending on average about Rs 600 per visit. Without the project, it was assumed that well-stocked
juniper forests will continue to contract, leading to an annual loss in visitors overall and in consumer
surplus of 2.5 to 5 percent. With the project, at least 1000 hectares of the forest would be preserved and
other areas better protected, allowing a continuation of amenity services of a particular quality. The
benefits of the preservation would gradually increase as the demand schedule for recreation in Ziarat
shifts outward along the price axis at a mean of 6.7 percent a year and along the quantity axis at rate
ranging between 4 and 10 percent until the capacity of the area is reached. Again the initial slope of the
demand schedule was estimated to fall between -0.05 and -0.001.
4.04          The subproject would establish 500 ha of fuelwood plantations within the first three years
(with an additional 500 ha pending the mid-term review) and distribute 100,000 seedlings to ilouseholds.
The trees distributed to households would cover an area roughly equivalent to 110 ha of fuelwood
plantations.
4.05          The production of wood per plantation hectare or plantation hectare equivalent was based
on the following ranges of yields:
(t/ha)
year after planting
4    5   6   7  8  9  10   11  12  13  14
min  0.12 0.24 0.35 0.47 0.59 0.71 0.88 1.05 1.23 1.40 27.18
mean 0.16 0.31 0.47 0.63 0.79 0.94 1.18 1.41 1.64 1.87 36.23
max 0.19 0.38 0.58 0.77 0.97 1.16 1.45 1.73 2.02 2.30 44.57
A year-by-year correlation of yields was not predefined for the simulations.
4.06          Without the project, an estimated 18,000 tons of fuelwood per year would be
harvested from the preserved area, zone A, for twenty years. This estimate may be rather high, but
lowering it in the analysis would raise the rate of return. With the project the production of fuelwood
over the rotation is expected to total about 45,000 tons from the plantations and about 5,000 tons
from the social forestry plantings. The total value of this production would be about Rs 62.5 million.
4.07          The calculation of soil conservation benefits was based on the current profit of
orchards and rainfed cultivation on the lower slopes Ci the area. These were considered to vary
between Rs 100,000 to Rs 400,000 per hectare of crchards and between Rs 4,000 and Rs 5,000 per
hectare of rainfed maize. It was assumed that the works over 10,000 ha would benefit 1,000 ha of
farm area, 30 percent of which would comprise orch.rds with the remaining area in maize. Within
these areas the soil conservation works were expected tO avoid productivity losses of I to 3 percent a
year. Annual soil conservation benefits were therefore expected to accrue to approximately Rs 30
million by project year 20.



- 98 -
ANNEX 10
Page 10
4.08          The incremenital production of forage from the seeding of grass and fodder over 500
ha waq expected to reach 650 kg per hectare within five years. At full development, total incremental
forage production under the subproject is expected to reach 325 tons a year, having a value of about
Rs 325,000.
4.09          After the running of 250 simulations, the expected internal rate of return was
estimated at 15 percent. This expected return moreover appears to rather stable: uniform variations
of costs by 25 percent affect this result by about one percentage point. On the basis of these results,
it is quite plausible that the rate of return of the subproject would be at least ten percent.



- 99 -
ANNEX 1 1
PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.    Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
A. 1   Bank Group Reconnaissance Mission Report: Pakistan Enviromnental Rehabilitation,
Protection and Management, June 20, 1985
A.2   Bank Group Country Economic Memorandum Mission Report: Pakistan, Population,
Natural Resources and the Environment, February 1988
A.3   Government of Pakistan: National Conservation Strategy, November 1991
B.    Reports and Studies Dealing with the Project
B. 1   Agricultural Operations Division, EM 1AG Preparation Report: Pakistan Environmental
Protection and Resource Conservation Project, January 28, 1991
B.2   Agricultural Operations Division, South Asia Country Department 3, Proposed Pakistan:
Balochistan Natural Resource Management Project, September 1992
C.    Selected Working Papers
C. I   Agricultural Operations Division, South Asia Country Department 3, Project
Implementation File, Detailed Cost Tables, November 1993
C.2   Kanok Pranich, Working Papers: Ziarat Juniper Forest Conservation, Hazarganji-Chiltan
National Park Development, and Sand Dune Stabilization on the Mekran Coast



PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proposed Environmental Section Organization11
Director
General
(BPS-20) 2
Director                                         [  Director
(BPS-19)                                             (BPS-19)
Forest, Ag                                     
Water                                      Fisheries
& Mining                     Industry & Urban
Ass Dir    1                   |Ass Dir    1                          |Ass Dir    1               Support
L(BPS-17)    J                       (BPS-17)               |            [  (BPS-17)    j             Staff
IIZYIl                                                                IZEI
Res Ass                           Res Ass                             |  Res Ass
(BPS-:6)                          (BPS-16)     J                          (BPS-16)
Res Ass
(BPS-16)
/I   The project would fund all positions
/)   RainC PaV Scale



PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proposed BEPA Organization!'
FDir. General
(BPS-20)
"I'
Dept. Dir.|
(BPS-18)
Admin officer
Hub Industrial         Industrial Issues             Urban Issues                  Publicity Unit
Estate
r  I  |  |   |          r               ll              Ir      I        'l    ~~~~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~Support  
Staff
Ass. Dir.               Ass. Dir.                  Ass. Dir.                        Ass. Dir.
(BPS-17)                (BPS-17)                   (BPS-17})    l                   (BPS-17)
Res. Ass.               Res. Ass.                  Res. Ass.
(BPS-16)                (BPS-16)                   (BPS-16)             Pub. Off.               Pub. Off.
l   (BPS-16)                (BPS-16)
5   Photog.                  Tech.
(BPS-14)                (BPS-14)
J/  The project would fund positions with double outlines.



F32°        *                                                    M°
PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
PROJECT
PROJECT AREAS
SUBPROJECT AREAS:                0    SELECTED TOWNS
SAND DUNE STABILIZATION        *    PROVINCE CAPITAL
HAZARGANJI*CHILTAN NATIONAL          SELECTED ROADS
;'  PARK DEVELOPMENT
/   o    RANGELAND/WATERSHED               .VR
REHABILITATION                      DRY LAKES
ZIARAT JUNIPER FOREST                DIVISION BOUNDARIES        7
LAND SYSTEM BOUNDARIES               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES /
*-INTERNATIONAL
ELEVATIONS IN METERS:                  BOUNDARIES
2135S                                                           f**
(>~~~~~~. ~~~1525
915                     ^GHANIST.  
____ ,,,    a,_._-.-  *   -ge 1"'    Nto hki
-.        I           B R A ! ' . H ni: '. KA K   AK
Q U E T T A-
|~~~~~~~~ ~ 2t- j   .-slJt} 
QU TT ,    K- ...A                                        / 
ISLAMIC  REP. OF IRAN  .  I                                          W s wkf V  ,
I ~ ~~~~~~~4-9 , ;t/t!\   - -
KILOMETERS                               ='                                                r 
o             so             150                                                                  f -r,     \   yEKRhN /J/ xlr       \
MILES                                                                                  '-)- v  ,
A   r a  ;, / C;r  
6 40



