Document of
The World Banlk
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:    21449
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25 840)
ON
IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.7 MILLION
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
November 29, 2000
Rural Development Sector Management Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
of ficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1994)
Currency Unit = Pak Rupees (Rs.)
Rs.1.00 = US$ 0.03
US$ 1.00 = Rs.30.50
At completion (June 30, 2000): US$1.00 = Rs. 52.30
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to  June 30, 2000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AZRI          Arid Zone Research Institute
BEPA          Balochistan Environmental Protection Agency
BEPC          Balochistan Environmental Protection Council
BFD           Balochistan Forest Department
BNRMP         Balochistan Natural Resource Management Project
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CFR           Community Forest Ranger
CNG           Compressed Natural Gas
DFO           Divisional Forest Officer
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
EPRCP         Environmental Protection and Resource Conservation Project
ES, P&DD      Environment Section, Planning and Development Department
GoBal         Government of Balochistan
GoP           Government of Pakistan
HCNP          Hazarganji Chiltan National Park
MTR           Mid Term Review
NCS           National Conservation Strategy
NRM           Natural Resource Management
OD            Operational Directive
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PAP           Project Affected Persons
P&DD          Planning and Development Department
P&ICU         Project Implementation and Coordination Unit
RWRP          Range/Watershed Rehabilitation Pilot
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SDS           Sand Dune Stabilization
TA            Technical Assistance
UoK           University of Karachi
WWF           World Wide Fund for Nature
ZJFC          Ziarat Juniper Forest Conservation
Vice President:  Meiko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:  John W. Wall
Sector Manager/Director:  Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader:    Najib Murtaza



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   9
6. Sustainability                                                                      10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     12
9. Partner Comments                                                                    13
10. Additional Information                                                             13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 . 18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  22
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation of the Project                                          23
Annex 9. Borrower's Comments on the Draft ICR                                          30
This document has a restricted distribution             and may be used by recipients only           in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Project ID: P010453                                       Project Name: BALUCHISTAN NATURAL
Team Leader: Najib Murtaza                                TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: November 29, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: BALUCHISTAN NATURAL                            L/C/TFNumber: IDA-25840
CountryIDepartment: PAKISTAN                                             Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: VI - Environmental Institutions
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD.   10/08/92                               Effective: 07/05/94           07/01/94
Appraisal:  04/03/93                                  MTR: 06/07/97              06/07/97
Approval:  03/22/94                                Closing: 06/30/2000          06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN/GOVERNMENT OF BALOCHISTAN
Other Partners: Not Applicable
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     John W. Wall                               Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:       Ridwan Ali                                Ridwan Ali
Team Leader at ICR:  Najib Murtaza                             Michael Saddington
ICR Primary Author:   Najib Murtaza
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1  The project's general objective was to improve protection of the environment and management of
natural resources of Balochistan. Its specific objectives were: (i) strengthening of principal environmental
and natural resource institutions; (ii) developing policies for improved and sustainable use of natural
resources, in particular, for woodland protection, rangeland management and upland aquifer use; (iii)
increasing policy makers', government officials' and public's awareness of damage being done to the
environment and natural resources; (iv) addressing some immediate, high priority resource management
problems; and (v) undertaking studies and preparation for future environmental and natural resource
management (NRM) projects.
3.1.2  The project's objectives, as described, were clear, realistic and consonant with Pakistan's National
Conservation Strategy (NCS) and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). These objectives were
similar to those of its precursor projects, in particular, the Bank assisted Environmental Protection and
Resource Conservation Project (EPRCP). EPRCP was signed earlier (June 1992) and had similar
objectives with actions to be initiated at the federal level, in the provinces of Punjab, Sindh, and NWFP,
and the territory of Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK). Further, BNRMP was structured to complement and
initiate actions in Balochistan, similar to those initiated in other provinces under EPRCP. Importantly,
these objectives continue to be responsive to the pressures on Balochistan's natural resources and urban
environment, and could be pursued in the medium to long term. However, it is unfortunate that these
objectives were not completely 'owned' by the provincial administration in its handling of project design and
implementation. Their priorities favored more tangible and immediate physical infrastructure and water
resource development activities. While not in contradiction with the objectives of the present project, the
long-term sustainability and success of such infrastructure investments require the technical, institutional
and financial systems that were being piloted and strengthened by project investments.
3.1.3  The initial design of the project was deficient in many ways. It was front-loaded with heavy
budgetary allocations, which could not be utilized properly as adequate skills were either not available or
not commissioned. Moreover, it did not allow for adequate capacity building in the initial phase of the
project, with the result that detailed planning, designing and consequent implementation and monitoring
were done poorly. The role of Environment Section, Planning and Development Department (ES P&DD)
became counterproductive for reaching outcomes, when it stretched beyond its role of monitoring and
evaluation and asserted itself in implementation. Involving the Environment Section (ES) in coordination
of project implementation and locating the special account within P&DD, affected its own institutional
efficiency, besides impacting adversely on implementation progress. Further, its design had envisaged the
holistic integration of environmental policy, environmental protection and natural resource management
(NRM). This proved overly ambitious in an institutional environment; which suffered from poor
interagency operational collaboration, politicization, low motivation, displacement of resources, and
insufficient technical and program management capacity. Thus, handling of this project, with multiple
agencies and varied components became complex, as the initial design was inadequate in many ways.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable, as objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1  Project components are classified into two categories, i.e. institutional strengthening and natural
resource rehabilitation and management, as per the SAR. The institutional strengthening component
comprised the following: (i) establishing an Environment Section (ES) within the Planning and
-2-



Development Department (P&DD); (ii) strengthening of Balochistan Environmental Protection Agency
(BEPA); (iii) strengthening of Balochistan Forest Department (BFD); (iv) initiating mass awareness
programs to educate decision makers and the public on environmental issues; and (v) studies and actions to
improve natural resource policies, and feasibility studies to prepare other natural resource use projects.
The natural resource rehabilitation sub-projects included (i) operations to rehabilitate and develop damaged
natural resources, such as, the sub-projects of Sand Dune Stabilization on the Mekran Coast and
Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park; and (ii) pilot-scale programs to develop site-specific methods of
rehabilitating and developing damaged natural resources, such as, the sub-projects of Rangeland and
Watershed Rehabilitation Development and Ziarat Juniper Forest Conservation.
3.3.2  The operational and pilot sub-projects, except for Ziarat Juniper Forest Conservation (ZJFC) in
some aspects, were not sufficiently designed to achieve the above institutional objectives. This allowed
Balochistan Forest Department (BFD) to proceed while implementing these with the shortcomings of their
existing approach. The design of the operational sub-projects did not ensure a linkage of the outputs with
the institutional objectives. The measure of output for the operational and pilot sub-project components
was restricted to planting and physical works. The institutional strengthening component in isolation from
the every day operations of BFD focused primarily on formal training. In this case too, the way the
components were designed, the output indicators were restricted to whether training was conducted. The
TA was not designed as part of an institutional building process with responsibilities in operational and
pilot sub-projects that would have a sustainable impact on the approach of BFD.
3.4 Revised Components:
Adjustments were made in the physical targets, some of which were substantially reduced. An
amount of SDR 2.75 million was cancelled from the credit amount after the mid-term review.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The present practice, to formally suggest a quality-at-entry rating, was introduced after the start of
this project, and therefore, it was not classified at project's appraisal. However, at the time of ICR
preparation, the performance rating for quality at entry was assessed as unsatisfactory. Although, the
project objective was consistent with the CAS and consonant with the NCS, it is now clear, in hindsight,
that the Borrower did not demonstrate sufficient levels of ownership and priority of project objectives in
overall development of the Province. The discussion of specific gaps in design follows. While appraising
the project, the Bank did not require compliance with its safeguard policies (particularly with reference to
use rights of the affectees of the Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park) and failed to incorporate adequate
design details for immediate implementation. Required measures for strengthening implementing agencies'
procurement capacity, such as appointment of project staff/consultants dedicated to procurement and
trained in Bank's procurement procedures, were not addressed in the project design. Neither the
procurement plans nor any improvement in national competitive bidding procedure were incorporated in the
SAR or the legal agreements. The project design also lacked a human resource development plan, which
could have led to a meaningful reorganization of the various implementing agencies, and institution of an
effective management information system.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project objectives did not change as a result of restructuring, however, the physical
targets were substantially reduced for the remaining duration of the project. Several actions, in particular,
those related to institutional strengthening and community participation, carried out after restructuring,
yielded positive results. In the overall balance, the project failed to achieve several of its major relevant
-3 -



objectives, and therefore, the rating of project's outcome was assessed as unsatisfactory. This was
reflected in the outputs of the project, which were poor. In the Sand Dune Stabilization (SDS) sub-project,
only 20% of the targeted area could be planted. Although the demonstration was successful with
communities acknowledging the benefits of the plantation, the net long-term benefits to be accrued in terms
of large-scale protection of towns/ infrastructure threatened by sand movement may not materialize,
because the physical targets were reduced. The Visitors Center at Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park
(HCNP) was not constructed. This would result in diminished awareness about the invaluable wild goat,
Chiltan Markhor (Caprafalconeri-chiltanensis), and wildlife protection, in general. In the Ziarat Juniper
Forests Conservation (ZJFC), delays in the preparation and subsequent approval of the management plan
have impeded the implementation of important recommendations, such as zoning and the securing of local
conununities' involvement in management. In the pilot Rangeland and Watershed Rehabilitation
sub-project, introduction of a new fodder plant, the four-wing salt bush (Atriplex canescens) was partially
completed. Other key reasons for not achieving full outcome were inefficient utilization of TA, partially
met training needs, frequent and inappropriate staff changes, poor governance and financial
misappropriation, lack of focus on policy development for improved and sustainable use of natural
resources, and slow pace of capacity building due to politicization and problems with flow of funds.
4.2 Outputs by components:
There were shortfalls in meeting the targets of almost all project components for many
reasons, as stated above. Component-wise outputs and evaluation of achievements are discussed below:
Institutional Development
4.2.1      Environment Section (ES): The ES was created within the P&DD to (i) coordinate all
environmental matters in the province and formulate environmental policy, legislation and regulations; (ii)
review provincial development proposals to ensure compliance with Government of Pakistan's (GoP) and
Government of Balochistan's (GoBal) environmental policies; and (iii) monitor natural resource
management, for economically viable and ecologically sound policies and practices. In view of its
coordinating role, the Bank's Special Account for the project was also located in this Section. Instead of
fulfilling its mandate of capacity development for environmental policy formulation and coordination,
through commissioning of relevant studies for which the project had allocated resources, this Section took
upon itself the responsibility to scrutinizing sub-project accounts of BEPA and BFD and procuring goods
and services centrally for all agencies. In this role, ES introduced some cumbersome procedures, which
affected the flow of funds and had a negative impact on implementation. ES was unable to initiate a high
priority study to develop the technical criteria for regulating access to Balochistan's aquifers and prepare
legislation and rules. Other studies envisaged to be carried out under the project were also not pursued.
The overall output of the ES was rated unsatisfactory.
4.2.2      Balochistan Environmental Protection Agency (BEPA): BEPA's primary objective was to
implement and enforce national and provincial environmental protection legislation and regulations and
create awareness of environmental problems in Balochistan. A coherent program of action was required
for the province, with coordination and integration at the federal and provincial levels. A program for mass
awareness was developed but not implemented during the project period. BEPA made some progress in
implementing the EIA procedures but enforcement of environmental regulations (such as the National
Environmental Quality Standards in the industrial sector) was not effected. Environmental monitoring and
information support services were not organized. BEPA was unable to play a significant role in larger
context of the province and limited its focus to Quetta. However, BEPA was successful in relocating the
brick kilns and provided a visible improvement in air quality over the city. It also initiated a program for
conversion of three-wheelers to Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) and was instrumental in establishing a
-4 -



CNG station for vehicles in the city. The overall output of the BEPA component was unsatisfactory.
4.2.3      Balochistan Environmental Protection Council (BEPC): A key objective was to develop an
institutional framework for protection and management of the environment in the province. BEPC, an apex
body, was constituted under this project to play a meaningful role in defining environmental priorities and
coordinating environmental actions in the province. Through broad-based participation, BEPC continues
to integrate the environmental concerns of a diverse group of government and non-governmental
organizations. Public consultation of the draft Environmental Protection Ordinance for Balochistan was in
progress. To give prominence to environmental matters, the title of "Forest, Wildlife and Environment
Department" was changed to the "Environment, Forest and Wildlife Department"; the Secretary
Environment, Deputy Secretary (Environment) and Section Officer (Environment,) were designated,
through notifications. The detachment of BEPA from BFD had raised BEPA's profile and given it the
flexibility to play an independent role in monitoring the environment in the province. This detachment was
imperative as Director General BEPA reporting to Secretary Forests could not be an effective watchdog on
its own department's activities. However, this was accomplished on Bank missions' insistence that
BEPA should be made independent of BFD to avoid conflicts of interests. The rating of
institutional development for the overall protection of the environment was assessed as satisfactory.
4.2.4      Balochistan Forest Department (BFD): The project aimed at strengthening BFD's overall
capabilities in community extension, project planning and implementation, and national park management.
A post mid-term restructuring plan for BFD components was developed and agreed with GoBal, keeping in
view, the demonstrated implementation capacity of BFD and the time remaining before project closure. Its
prime focus was on capacity building and consolidating the activities of the sub-projects to link the two to
meet the relevant objectives. Central to this plan was to strengthen the planning unit in its implementation,
monitoring and coordination role, and participatory NRM functions within BFD. The achievements of this
unit were mixed. Local and overseas training/study tours were not fully availed, and in several instances,
the personnel sent for training were inappropriate. Technical assistance in monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) was partially utilized. Planned housing was constructed. This unit was renamed as Planning and
Implementation Coordination Unit (P&ICU), and it supported operations in sub-projects, particularly the
ZJFC, through a consultant Forestry Specialist and Sociologist. GoBal agreed to appoint two BPS- 16
Community Forest Rangers (CFR) in the P&ICU to work with BFD field formations on a regular basis,
and support participatory NRM beyond the life of the project. BFD also failed to achieve one of the
project's specific objectives, i.e. to develop policies for improved and sustainable use of natural resources.
The outputs under this component were rated marginally satisfactory.
Natural Resource Rehabilitation Sub-projects
4.2.5      Sand Dune Stabilization (SDS): BFD was expected to undertake work to halt sand dune
movement near the coastal towns of Pasni, Gawadar and Pishukan, and protect the infrastructure, houses
and fishing industry facilities from sand impingement, conduct research on sand dune stabilization, improve
local fuelwood supplies, and provide a pleasant habitat in and around the towns. The project also provided
for the construction of three buildings - an office and a residence for the Divisional Forest Officer and a
guesthouse. In the pre-MTR period, the achievements under this component were insignificant and
scandalously fraught with financial misappropriation issues. At mid term, it was commendable that GoBal
took cognizance of financial mismanagement. It initiated inquiries and moved to strengthen BFD's
financial management procedures and controls. In an exemplary manner, GoBal completed the inquiries,
fixed responsibility on nine corrupt officials of BFD, and took actions ranging from suspension to fines to
ordering of cash recoveries from those officials. Planting of mesquite over an area of 1,074 ha was
-5 -



attempted against the SAR target of 5,000 ha of planting on sand dunes. In general, poor record keeping
posed difficulty in ascertaining the actual area planted and the plants survival rate. An estimated, 80 ha of
the planted area were fully stocked while the stocking of the remaining area ranged from 0 to 50 percent.
The three aforementioned buildings were partially completed. About 60,000 plants were planted through
distribution to residents of Pasni, Gawadar and Pishukan, but unfortunately, their survival rates were not
monitored. The University of Karachi (UoK) did not complete the task of researching various aspects of
sand movement, except for a study on rodents that caused damage to young mesquite seedlings. The
project encouraged BFD to organize itself and work collaboratively with a poor and willing community of a
fishing village adjacent to the sea and under inmmediate threat from moving sand in the Pasni area. BFD
established a successful plantation over 22 ha in Chur Bandar, and the local community was nurturing and
maintaining the plants without any need of an official forest guard. The overall rating of this component
was unsatisfactory.
4.2.6      Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park (HCNP): The project was expected to strengthen BFD's
national park/wilderness area management capability, and develop and implement a park management plan,
covering development of natural resources, infrastructure and facilities. Following achievements were
made: a master's degree in park management was completed by a BFD official; park management plan
with technical assistance from World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) was prepared; about 75% works on
park boundary (5 km.) were completed; and an office and residences (4 Qty.), a community center (I No.),
water points (5 Nos.), observation posts (3 Nos.), and a water storage tank with pipeline were constructed;
and 7,500 seedlings were planted. A wildlife census was completed, and during the course of the project
the population of the unique wild goat, Chiltan Markhor (Caprafalconeri-chiltanensis), had doubled from
about 400 to 800 Nos. A Visitors Center, for display of exhibits, photographs, and video films of
Balochistan's wildlife, plants, geography, and the environment, was nrot completed. WWF had carried out
the consultation process with those accessing the Duz Darra tract adjacent to the park, and the Government
had contemplated adding this contiguous area to the existing park. However, although the prevalent
situation in Duz Darra did not seem to contravene the Bank's OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement, in
view of the Bank's social safeguards policy, the Government had agreed to document the case of Duz
Darra and report on the process and outcomes of community consultation. In case, the Government should
decide to re-notify the park to include the current game reserve, they should prepare an entitlement
framework and adequately compensate eligible project-affected-persons (PAPs) for losing access to
resource use. Based on these achievements, the rating was assessed as marginally satisfactory.
4.2.7      Rangeland/Watershed Rehabilitation (RWRP): It was a pilot program to carry out planting
of a relatively high producing fodder shrub (Atriplex canescens), commonly called four-wing salt bush, at
five places (over an area of approximately 30 ha each of individually or tribally controlled rangeland). The
respective BFD divisions would assist the farners with planting and watering, and not provide any
concessions to farmers, such as provision of guards, etc. Its purpose was to test the technical, economic
and social feasibility of introducing the shrub into the province's agro-pastoral grazing systems. In terms
of achievement, only four sites were selected, and planting was completed on two. The condition of planted
seedlings was poor because of an extended drought and inability of BFD to motivate the farmers. Very
little soil conservation work was done in the catchment areas associated with the planting sites. Services of
AZRI were not secured on a permanent basis, as was originally planned. This prevented sustained
monitoring and interpreting of results. Although Atriplex was introduced, the project did not lead to a
wider introduction in Balochistan's rangelands. The achievement under this component was rated as
unsatisfactory.
4.2.8      Ziarat Juniper Forest Conservation (ZJFC): The better remaining portions of Balochistan's
rare juniper forests and woodlands cover about 50,000 ha in the districts of Ziarat and Loralai. This
-6 -



sub-project was to zone the forest for different uses, and establish community plantations around the
juniper areas as substitute sources for community fuelwood and timber. It would also test the operational
feasibility of a management plan, and the technical, social and economic feasibility of growing community
fuelwood plantations under such harsh conditions, undertake soil erosion control works in an area of about
10,000 ha, develop springs, produce and distribute 100,000 seedlings, construct offices and other buildings,
and conduct research and trials on new species of fuelwood trees, shrubs, grasses and fodder, and on dwarf
mistletoe disease (Anceuthobium oxyce dri) which attacks juniper. With a slow progress in the first three
years and cancellation of a substantial amount of the credit, ZJFC was redefined as a pilot that would
initiate the reorganization of BFD operations to collaboratively manage state forests with the active
participation of communities that inhabit these forests. Its specific purpose was to complete and implement
a forestry management plan to conserve the juniper forests in Ziarat in close collaboration with the
communities of the area. Achievements against the overall targets were few. A management plan was
prepared through consultation with stakeholders. Soil conservation works were carried out on about 7,200
ha only; fuelwood plantations were not established, and research was limited to raising a nursery that was
abandoned due to poor maintenance and drought. Site specific participatory NRM plans were not
prepared. A report on mistletoe eradication was completed by TA consultants, according to which cutting
of branches of infested trees (about 4,000 Nos.) was continuing. The planned buildings were constructed.
The overall achievement under this component was rated unsatisfactory.
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
4.2.9      Technical Assistance: The overall utilization of technical assistance (both foreign and local)
was 57 percent. It was poor because of several factors, primarily the late deployment of TA consultants by
the Government and non-availability of counterpart staff to work with the consultants. Due to these
factors, and inadequate and inappropriate staffing, the government lacked the capability to maximize the
benefits from technical assistance, and critically evaluate the usefulness of the technical recommendations
provided by the consultants. Lack of follow up by government agencies also remained a problem
throughout the project. In cases where the TA consultants produced an output such as a management plan
or a diagnostic survey, the relevant departments did not follow up to complete the proposed actions. In
summary, a management plan for the Hazarganji Chiltan National Park was prepared with technical
assistance from WWF; a report on eradication of mistletoe disease from Ziarat Juniper Forests was
prepared; the University of Karachi was ineffective in research on sand dunes; and the BFD was unable to
acquire AZRI's services, on a lasting basis, for the introduction of the four-wing salt bush. Overall
effectiveness of TA was rated unsatisfactory.
4.2.10     Training: A total of 34 officers from government agencies participated in various short and
long-term overseas training programs. The areas of training included: biodiversity conservation,
environmental management, EIA review, wildlife management, NRM, and project management. A
significant number of staff also benefited from local training in various fields. Under the project, two
overseas graduate degree programs were also supported, one in BEPA and the other in BFD. The latter
was completed and the officer rejoined the BFD. Overall performance under this component was rated
satisfactory.
4.2.11     Studies: The project provided funds for environmental policy studies and for preparation of
future NRM projects. In this regard, ES was to initiate a high priority study to develop the technical
criteria for regulating access to Balochistan's aquifers and prepare legislation and rules. GoBal referred
this study to the Irrigation Department and intended to carry out this work at a later date, from their own
funds or other sources. Other topics for policy studies included surveying and reviewing issues concerning
tribal land tenure rights, NRM along Balochistan's coastline, air pollution and solid and liquid waste
-7 -



disposal, and fertilizer and pesticide residuals. During the project period, GoBal did not utilize project
funds for carrying out any of the above studies or preparation of future projects. The achievement under
this component was unsatisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An overall economic rate of return (ERR) was not calculated, neither at appraisal nor at ICR.
This was due to the difficulty in quantifying benefits from institutional strengthening, a major project
objective, and also because significant project investments went into other pilot, research-type preparatory
works that are difficult to evaluate quantitatively. For sub-projects, the SAR anticipated an ERR ranging
from 10 to 15%. Calculation of ERR was attempted but not considered realistic and meaningful for
inclusion in the ICR, for the following reasons. The overall physical and financial achievements were quite
low; quality of fieldwork was sub-standard; available field data were not reliable; little maintenance was
carried out during the project period; and prolonged drought caused less than the anticipated growth in
trees/shrubs. Large sums of money, reportedly, were temporary embezzled from project funds, implying
that the actual investment was much less than reported and that any calculation of ERR would be distorted.
The pattern of expenditures was also skewed in that there was a burst of activities in FY96 and FY97 when
more than half of the total expenditure was incurred (project period was six years). More specifically, the
overall utilization of funds was about 40%. The area planted under SDS sub-project was about 20% with
a survival rate of about 31%. Under the ZJFC sub-project, although soil conservation works covered about
70% of the target area, the fuelwood plantations (1,000 ha) that would have contributed positively to the
ERR were not established. Implementation of the HCNP management plan began in the last year of the
project, implying that economic activity, resulting from the plan, would not begin during the project period.
The planting of the four-wing salt bush, under RWRP sub-project, was carried out over only 40% of the
target area. Given the above factors, results of ERR calculation would be meaningless.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not estimated.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1      ES, P&DD: Given the increasing importance of the environment in every day life and the need
for coordinating project activities of the relevant line agencies under this project, an Environment Section
(ES), with an elevated status, was established in P&DD. Its role was to coordinate the activities of all line
agencies in the field of enviromnent and monitor progress of BNRMP. Unfortunately, in its initial years, it
operated outside the normal structure of P&DD and its reporting requirements were politically influenced.
Its overall performance was less than satisfactory, largely because it diluted its focus from policymaking,
monitoring and evaluation, and indulged in micro-management and implementation beyond its envisaged
role. Nevertheless, there is a definite recognition that ES, as a focal point, would be available for
policymaking and planning for all environmental matters, including natural resource and environrnental
projects, at the highest level of decision making in the province.
4.5.2      BEPC and BEPA: By constituting the Balochistan Environmental Protection Council
(BEPC), the project developed and laid the basis of a sound institutional framework for the protection and
management of the environment in the province. BEPC is the apex body responsible for integrating the
environmental concems of a diverse group of govemrnment and non-govemrnmental organizations.
Balochistan, by adopting this arrangement, moved ahead of other provinces in terms of environmental
institution building. A draft Environmental Protection Ordinance for Balochistan was submitted for public
consultation while various citizen groups were provided active support from the BEPC and BEPA in
implementation of environmental programs and projects. The institutional profile of BEPA was also raised
and it now has the flexibility to play an independent role in monitoring the environment in the province.
-8 -



4.5.3      BFD: Capability of the BFD Planning Unit was enhanced through provision of funds for
technical assistance, training, vehicles, equipment and housing. As a result, the performance of BFD's
Planning Unit was improved. However, the funding was partially utilized because long-term training was
not fully availed (nominations for master's degrees in social forestry and nursery management were not
made). BFD's capabilities in community extension also remained restricted because training in community
extension was not imparted to all staff. Further, two community forest rangers for community extension
work were not be recruited.
4.5.4      In view of above analysis, the overall rating of the institutional development impact was
assessed as modest.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
For the last three years, Balochistan was in the grip of a continuing drought. The
performnance of the Sand Dune, Ziarat Juniper and pilot Rangeland/Watershed Rehabilitation sub-projects
was adversely affected by the prevalent climate, in particular, it affected the survival rate of seedlings. The
above factors substantially affected the achievements of the project outcome and outputs.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government could have controlled the following: frequent replacement of staff in key
positions, in particular, the position of the Director General, BEPA, which was headed by many different
persons during the project period; delay in provision of counterpart funds by P&DD and Finance
Department; delay in renewal of revolving fund (Rs. 5 million) for BFD; and cumbersome procedures of
reimbursement from the Special Account located in P&DD, as it resulted in extremely slow flow of funds
from P&DD to implementing agencies. Centralized procurement of goods and services by P&DD could
have been avoided, as this gave rise to inter-agency conflicts and impeded the implementation progress. If
one were to assume significantly improved financial govemance, and close monitoring with assistance from
a financial management specialist, three Special Accounts, one for each implementing agency, ES, BEPA
and BFD, respectively, would have better served the project. These factors substantially influenced the
outcome and outputs of the project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
BFD suffered from a leadership crisis, since the beginning of the project. Heads of the
department gave high priority to non-project work, seldom visited the field, neither guided properly nor
demanded record keeping and documentation from the field staff. As a result, to-scale maps of planting
done, record of seedlings planted and survived, etc. were missing. Some field staff took advantage of this
situation and reportedly siphoned off funds from the project. Key staff positions were filled with political
appointees, who were inappropriately qualified, with obviously harmful results. This also created a
situation where counterparts were very weak, and due to which full benefits from TA could not be derived.
Overseas and local training also suffered. The aforementioned factors substantially affected the outcome
of the project.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project expenditure, as of June 30, 2000, was Pak Rs.282.5 million, or about
US$7.0 million whereas the appraisal estimate of project cost was Pak Rs.588.4 million or US$17.8
million. Following the mid-term review, SDR2.835 million was cancelled from the credit amount due to
the reduction of physical targets in all BFD sub-projects, under utilization of technical assistance and
-9-



training, misprocurement, and GoBal failing to pursue the proposed studies under the project. More
factors affecting utilization of funds included slow movement of funds from Special Account (P&DD) to
implementing agencies; delay in selection of TA consultants; inadequate agencies' preparation for timely
initiation of activities; lack of quality management and leadership crisis; unrealistic implementation
schedule (in the design, maximum funds were earmarked for disbursement during the first three years of the
project, when line agencies were ill-equipped to utilize them); and delays in procurement of staff,
contractors and consultants.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1 .1     The project helped set up an apex environmental body, the Balochistan Environmental
Protection Council (BEPC), and strengthen the Environmental Protection Agency (BEPA) and the Forest
Department (BFD). Although long-term effectiveness of these institutions would still require additional
support, the Council continues to influence debate on environmental priorities in the province and make a
positive impact. To make it sustainable for future purposes, it is backed by legislation and a wide-ranging
representation from stakeholders, civic agencies, and peoples from all walks of life. BEPC would need
resources and an efficient BEPA to function as its Secretariat. Given the newly developed Balochistan
Conservation Strategy, the government and the donors should continue to strengthen these institutions
during its implementation. Environmental tribunals set up to address public interest issues would also need
a strong BEPA to continue its fight for the protection of the environment. With these developments, the
ball was set to roll in the public domain and it would be difficult for anyone to retract government's
support to environmental concerns.
6.1.2      BFD went through critical structural and staffing changes due, in part, to allegations of
financial mismanagement. GoBal's effort to confront corruption was unprecedented as it required a strong
will and commitment to take the corrupt officials to task and adopt measures to prevent repetition of such
acts. Although sub-projects suffered greatly due to lack of government's commitment, lack of leadership
and local participation, the SDS component demonstrated that sand dune movement was restricted by
planting of mesquite, and this measure would protect some infrastructure of poor communities. The
Hazarganji Chiltan National Park's wildlife would flourish by taking prudent measures prescribed by the
management plan. In the Ziarat Juniper, BFD staff and the communities were exposed to the advantages
and challenges of mutual collaboration in NRM. This would continue under the new Government's policy
stress upon devolution and local social control. Based on the above, the rating for sustainability of project
intervention was assessed as unlikely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Several tangible activities initiated under the project were not completed by the credit closing
date of June 30, 2000. These were, primarily, civil works and procurement of equipment under BEPA, and
civil works under BFD sub-projects. GoBal was cognizant and planned to secure budget resources in
FY2000-O1 for completion of these activities, and for the operation and maintenance of the existing
plantations. It also planned to support the strengthening of ES, BEPA and Forest Department, and
continue its dialogue with the communities for collaboration in NRM activities.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank during preparation, appraisal and subsequent processing of the
- 10-



project was unsatisfactory. The Bank overestimated the capabilities of the implementing agencies, which
were found to be deficient for handling the project. At appraisal, a financial analyst was not deployed to
critically examine the BFD's accounting system. The design of the project also lacked sufficient detail to
undertake immediate implementation, and the project was front-loaded with funds in the first three years
even though the implementing agencies lacked the capacity to implement it. In retrospect, the Bank should
have ensured, prior to initiating project activities, that BEPA and BFD had sufficient capacity for
implementing. Realization of this deficiency came at the mid-term. The SAR was also silent on possible
implications of government policies on the involuntary resettlement (OD 4.30).
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank fielded supervision missions on a regular and need basis, and maintained an
adequate skill mix of Bank staff and consultants. The missions' terms of reference and timings were agreed
with implementing agencies while allowing sufficient time for assessing project performance in the field.
At mid-term, a financial management specialist was added to the supervision team and detected grave
irregularities in the maintenance of project accounts. At credit closing, all due audit reports had been
received, however, during the course of the project, there were several qualified and unqualified
submissions with para objections. Between missions, the Bank staff maintained a close liaison and held
meetings with project officials to expedite work and improve their understanding of Bank's procedures and
guidelines. The findings of the missions were discussed in detail with the project agencies and the problems
identified were proactively addressed. Performance ratings were also discussed with GoBal and mentioned
in Aide-Memoires and in Bank's intemal reports. At MTR, the project was at risk and categorized as a
problem project. A major portion of the Credit, amounting to US$3.78 million, was canceled primarily
from the natural resource components, and it took a year to agree on a restructuring plan with substantially
reduced physical targets. The project was later salvaged by agreeing with GoBal on making the necessary
organizational changes, taking steps for confronting corruption, and improving their financial management
system. Post-MTR, the objectives did not change, and projected outputs were rationalized in view of the
available implementation capacity. At this stage, any major changes in project design were not possible
due to the remaining short project period.
The Bank's performance in carrying out supervisions was rated satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The initial project design was flawed, and overall, the project failed to meet most of its
outputs and outcomes. In view of above, the Bank's overall performance was rated unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower approved its project document and provided necessary support to the Barik
missions during project preparation, appraisal and negotiations. GoBal ensured that the Bank's SAR and
the Borrower's PC-1 were consistent with each other. The Borrower's preparation performance was rated
satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
It was required of the government to put in place appropriate policies and demonstrate
commitment to the objectives of the project, through appointing suitably qualified managers and
counterpart staff, and providing counterpart funds in a timely manner. These functions were not
discharged properly. Government failed to carry out studies, which would have helped develop the right
policies. It did not respond to project needs, and staffs in key positions were rotated frequently. Lower
positions were filled with politically influenced unsuitable persons on an ad hoc basis. Counterpart funds
and reimbursements from Special Account in P&DD were always delayed. The rating of the government's
- 11 -



implementation performance was assessed as unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project suffered a great deal on account of inter-agency conflicts and poor
implementation. Effectiveness of management was minimal. The project also suffered due to inadequacy
of staffing primarily in ES P&DD and BEPA. In general, the professional staff in BFD was reasonably
qualified but could not deliver due to weak leadership and improper guidance. Lack of monitoring did not
allow for taking corrective measures on time. Technical assistance and training were not fully utilized and
the required studies were not carried out. Implementation also suffered due to poor design of activities.
The overall performance rating of implementing agencies was rated unsatisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Given the above ratings for preparation, government implementation performance and
implementing agency performance, the overall Borrower's performance was rated unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
(a)    In an institutional environment of weak-interagency operational collaboration, politicization, low
motivation, displacement of resources, inadequate technical and program management capacity, a single
project with multiple implementing agencies and varied components should be avoided. A lesson was that
the cost of inter-agency conflicts outweighs the expected benefits from inter-agency coordination.
(b)    Placement of a single Special Account with a coordinating agency (such as P&DD) impeded the
progress of implementation and provided grounds for inter-agency conflicts. In particular, it affected the
flow of funds and approval of expenditures. The coordinating agency, instead of performing its usual role
of monitoring, coordination and facilitation, involved itself in the control of accounts and related matters.
Inter-agency conflicts could have been avoided by establishing three Special Accounts, commensurate with
the number of implementing agencies and ensuring that sufficient staffing, controls and oversight were in
place for effective financial management in each of the agencies.
(c)    Significant benefits can be derived by addressing financial management issues at appraisal,
ensuring that proper accountability arrangements are in place by implementation, working with the
borrower to design the funds flow and procedures so that they facilitate project implementation,
decentralizing the Special Accounts, and arranging for proper staffing in all implementing entities.
(d)    TA would not have a sustainable impact, if excluded from the institution building process and did
not have responsibility in sub-project line-agency operations. In BNRMP, the design of operational
sub-projects was not linked with institutional objectives, hence, the outputs were restricted to physical
targets. Similarly, when institutional development was carried out in isolation of every day operations it
was unlikely to achieve system-forming effects on operations.
(e)    In projects where the implementing agency capacity is weak at the onset, front loading of the
project with disbursements in the initial years led to inappropriate spending and diluted the focus on
development objectives such as capacity building and participatory natural resource management.
(f)    Ensuring compliance with Bank's ODs' generated positive actions at the operational level. In this
project, applying prudent practices in financial management, and social and environmental safeguards
improved the quality of operation and contributed to a more transparent institutional environment that may
lead to more public participation in environmental management.
- 12 -



(g)    Delayed procurement of civil works, goods and services, including selection of technical assistance
consultants was a setback to implementation and had implications throughout the project duration. This is
further illustration of the need for investment projects to have all bidding documents of the first two years
ready by project effectiveness date.
(h)    For line agencies to follow best practices in natural resource management, the following lessons
from Ziarat Juniper sub-project were noted: (a) identify the natural resource community and constituent
sub-groups in the pilot areas; (b) introduce the objectives of the sub-project to the community and mobilize
them for a collaborative planning exercise for necessary conservation works, plantations and management
interventions; and (c) prepare a screening report for approval by line-agency, containing a community
profile of sub-groups, proof of inclusion of all stake holders in the planning process, agreement of the terms
of partnership with the community, and specify conservation plans including works and plantations with
costs.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The project failed to achieve several of its objectives, primarily, due to the lack of experience of the
newly established environmental institutions, frequent and inappropriate staff changes of staff, delayed
hiring of consultants and corresponding poor performance, and long bans on procurement of equipment and
foreign training. The ES P&DD was unable to devote fully to its primary role of policy, planning and
coordination because handling of the Special Account was time consuming and diverted their attention from
other assigned tasks. However, BEPA made some notable achievements, for example the establishment of
the environmental apex body, that is BEPC, removal of brick kilns, and the initiation of the conversion of
three-wheelers to the use of CNG. BFD's performance under the Planning and Implementing Cell and
Hazarganji Chiltan National Parks sub-projects was satisfactory while for the remaining three, i.e. Sand
Dune Stabilization, Watershed/Rangeland Rehabilitation and Conservation of Juniper Forests sub-projects,
it was unsatisfactory. The Bank supervision missions' performance was rated satisfactory. The Borrower
particularly noted that the project has been instrumental in raising the awareness and bringing about a clear
change in the attitude of public and policy makers towards environmental issues. The Government's
request for an extension of the project period beyond June 30, 2000 was reviewed by the Bank and not
agreed to, given the project's marginal performance, govemance issues involved, persistent inter-agency
conflict conceming flow of funds, and high tumover of key staff. The Bank felt that the outcome of the
project would not materially change by granting extension.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
Following additional annexes have been added:
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation (unedited)
Annex 9. Borrower's Commnents on the Draft ICR (unedited)
- 13-
- , > ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatortMatrix                  Projected in last PSR               ActuaUlLatest Estimate
Institutional Strengthening          Establish Environmental Section in P&DD.  An Environment Section was established in
P&DD for (i) coordinating all environmental
matters within Balochistan, and (ii) ensuring
sustainable and efficient use of natural
resources.
Strengthen BEPA.                     BEPA was strengthened to enable it to meet
its objectives of implementing and enforcing
national and provincial environmental
protection legislation and regulations and
creating awareness of environmental
problems in Balochistan.
Strengthen capabilities of BFD.      BFD's overall capabilities in community
extension, project planning and
implementation, and national park
management were strengthened.
Policy formulation                   Formulate policies for improved and  Requisite policies were not formulated.
sustainable use of natural resources.
Awareness raising                    Increase policy makers', govemment  Awareness plan developed for the purpose
officials' and public's awareness of damage  was not fully implemented, except for
being done to the environment.       publishing advertisements, holding a few
seminars (one on juniper) and arranging
walks.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                  Projected In last PSR               ActuallLatest Estimate
BEPA
Buildings                         2 Nos.                               1 (partially completed)
Technical assistance              29 person months                     18.4 person months
Overseas training
M.Sc.                           1 No.                                I No.
Short courses                   15 person months                     3 person months
Twinning arrangements             1 No.                                Nil
ES P&DD
Studies                           6 Nos.                               Nil
Technical assistance              13 person months                     5.5 person months
Overseas training                 7.4 person months                    5.6 person months
M.Sc.                           1 No.                                Nil
Short courses                   15 person months                     5.6 person months
BFD
Buildings                         2 Nos.                               2 Nos.
Technical Assistance              33 person months                     28,3 person months
Overseas training
M.Sc.                           2 Nos.                               Nil
Short courses                    3 person months                     0.5 person months
- 14 -



SDS
Buildings                          3 Nos.                                3 Nos. (partially completed)
Sand dune planting                 5,000 ha                              1,074 ha
Community fuelwood plantation      80,000 seedlings                      30,000 seedlings
Technical assistance               18 person months                      Nlt
Research by UoK                    Lumpsum (Rs. 3.8 million)             0.392 million
HCNP
Management plan                    1 No.                                 1 No.
Research nursery                   2 ha                                  0.4 m seedlings (not used for research)
Buildings                          9 Nos,                                4 Nos.
Technical assistance               Lumpsum (Rs. 8.327 million/$0.59 million)  Rs.13.873 million
Overseas training
M.Sc.                            1 No.                                 1 No.
Short courses                    16 person months                      15.5 person months
Markhor census                     2 Nos.                                1 No.
RWRP
Atriplex plantaton                 150 ha                                60 ha
Technical assistance               15 person months                      6.5 person months
ZJFC
Management plan                    1 No.                                 1 No.
Buildings                          5 Nos.                                5 Nos.
Fuelwood plantation                1,000 ha                              Nil
Soil conservation                  10,000 ha                             8,000 ha
Mistletoe treatment                Lumpsum amount                        8,718 trees treated.
Technical assistance               55 person months                      20.7 person months
Overseas training                  11 person months                      Nil
End of project
- 15-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate     Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million   US$ million
Institutional Development                           3.30            1.50          45
Sand Dune Stabilization (SDS)                       6.50           3.00           46
Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park (HCNP)              1.20          0.90           75
Rangeland/Watershed Rehabilitation (RWRP)           0.50           0.20           40
Ziarat Juniper Forest Conservation (ZJFC)           3.60           1.40            39
Total Baseline Cost                                15.10           7.00
Physical Contingencies                              1.60
Price Contingencies                                 1.10
Total Project Costs            17.80           7.00
Total Financing Required             17.80          7.00
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         1.20         9.60         0.60        11.40
(0.00)       (1.10)       (8.70)       (0.00)       (9.80)
2. Goods                     0.80         0.10         0.20         0.00         1.10
(0.50)       (0.10)       (0.10)       (0.00)       (0.70)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         5.30         0.00        5.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (4.20)       (0.00)      (4.20)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     0.80          1.30        15.10        0.60        17.80
(0.50)       (1.20)       (13.00)      (0.00)      (14.70)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.70         3.00         0.00        3.70
(0.00)       (0.60)       (2.80)       (0.00)       (3.40)
2. Goods                     0.40         0.00         0.60         0.00         1.00
(0.30)       (0.00)       (0.30)       (0.00)      (0.60)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         2.30         0.00        2.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.70)       (0.00)      (1.70)
-16 -



4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)                       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00) (0.00)                              (0.00)
Total                        0.40           0.70           5.90          0.00          7.00
,_______________________        (0.30)         (0.60)        (4.80)        (0.00)        (5.70)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
v Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equiv alent)
Percentage Of Apprai3al
ComponenE              Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Larest Estimate
Bank      Go%t.     CoF.      Bank      Got.   | CoF.      Bank   Gu%[.  CoF.
Institutional Development  2.96    0.61      0.00      1.22       0.29     0.00     41.2   47.5    0.0
Sand Dune Stabilization  6.68      1.37      0.00      2.44       0.57     0.00     36.5   41.6    0.0
(SDS)
Hazarganji-Chiltan        1.05     0.22      0.00      0.74       0.13     0.00     70.5   59.1    0.0
National Park (HCNP)
Rangeland/Watershed      0.48      0.10      0.00      0.17       0.04     0.00     35.4   40.0    0.0
Rehab. (RWRP)
Ziarat Juniper Forest    3.59      0.74      0.00       1.13      0.27      0.00    31.5           0.0
Conservation (ZJFC)
Total Project            14.76     3.04      0.00      5.70       1.30      0.00    38.6   42.8    0.0
- 17-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not calculated.
- 18 -
_   I5



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Mvissions:
Stase of Proleic Cy.cle             No. of Persons and Specialtl             Performian;c Rating
(c.g. 2 Economibt,s I FvIS, etc. i  Implemcntanon     De%elopment
;M,lonthj \'ear  Count     SpeciaIr'                      Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
10-11/92                      4   AGR, ECO, FOR, INST
Appraisal/Negotiation
3    AGR, FOR, ECO
Supervision
#1    8/94                    1   FOR                                 S                 S
# 2   5-6/95                  1   FOR                                 S                 S
# 3    1/96                   2   FOR, INST                           S                 S
# 4   12/96 - 1/97            4   FOR, ENV, AGR, PROC                 S                 S
# 5 (MTR) 12/96 - 1/97        7   FOR, INST, ENV, AGR, PROC,          U                 S
DISB, ECO
#6    2-3/98                   7   FOR, INST, ENV, PROC,              U                 U
DISB, SOC, FIN
# 7    7/98                   2   FOR, ENV                            U                 S
# 8    1-2/99                 8   FOR, INST, ENV, AGR, PROC,          S                 S
DISB, SOC, FIN
# 9    10/99                  8   FOR, INST, ENV, PROC, DISB,         S                 S
SOC, FIN, TA
# 10   2-3/00                 2   FOR, INST                           U                 S
# 11    5-6/00                8   FOR, INST, ENV, PROC, DISB,         U                 U
SOC, FIN, COM
ICR
5-6/00                        8   FOR, INST, ENV, PROC,               U                 U
DISB, SOC, FIN, COM
AGR=Agriculturist, ECO=Economist, FOR=Forester, INST=lnstitutional Specialist, ENV=Environmentalist,
PROC=Procurement Specialist, DISB= Disbursement Specialist, FIN=Financial Analyst, SOC=Sociologist, COM=Community
Specialist, TA=Team Assistant
(b) Staff:
|     Stage of Project Cyclc                   Actual Latest Estimate
No Staff, %eeks              Us1$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               56.4                      163.6
Appraisal/Negotiation          included above              included above
Supervision                             126.2                      178.9
ICR                                      10.0                       20.0
Total                                   192.6                      362.5
- 19-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                       O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
El Sector Policies                     O H   OSUOM      * N  O NA
O Physical                             O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
Q Financial                            O H   OSUOM      * N  O NA
E Institutional Development            0 H   O SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                       O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM      * N  O NA
O Gender                         O H   OSUOM      * N  O NA
El Other (Please specify)        O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
O Private sector development           0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
0 Public sector management             0 H   O SU *M    0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
- 20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
0 Lending                                           OHS Os *u OHU
O Supervision                                       O HS * S     OU     OHU
O Overall                                           OHS Os       * u    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
O Preparation                                       O HS * S     O U    O HU
O Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 0 HS 0 s     0 U    0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS Os       * u    O HU
- 21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Studies/Reports Prepared under the Project
1. Plan for Management of Ziarat Juniper Forest
2. Management Plan for Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park
3. Report on Industrial and Urban Waste
4. Management of Dwarf Mistletoe, Ziarat Forests
5. Preliminary Needs Assessment and Training Plan, Environment and Natural Resource Management
6. Revised Training Plan and Training Schedules with Internal Managerial and Organizational
Recommendations
7. Proceedings of Workshop in EIA Procedures
8. Final Report on EIA Procedures in Balochistan
9. Draft Environment Ordinance 2000 (Draft Legislation)
Documents/Reports of the Bank Consulted
1. Full supervision reports, including Form 590/PSR of the project: 1995-2000
2. Black Books and Project (Cr. 2584-PAK) files in the Islamabad Field Office: 1993-2000
3. Staff Appraisal Report (3/1/94) and Development Credit and Project Agreements (4/4/1994
4. Bank's Operational Manual
5. Guidelines for Preparing ICRs (June 1999)
Appendices to ICR
Appendix A: Borrower's Evaluation Report
Appendix B: Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR
Appendix C: Map
- 22 -



Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation of the Project
BORROWER'S EVALUATION
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2584-PAK)
1.     Background
The BNRM Project was started in 1994-95 after signing of agreements with the World Bank. The
closing date for this credit was June 30, 2000. Under the project, there were 7 sub-projects with
the objective to improve the environment and protection/management of natural resources in a
sustainable manner in the province. These included 1) Mekran Coast Sand Dunes Stabilization at
Gawadar, 2) Improvement of Hazargangi-Chiltan National Park, Quetta, 3) Conservation and
Management of Ziarat Juniper Forests, 4) Watershed Rangeland Rehabilitation Program, 5)
Planning and Implementing Coordination Cell, 6) Strengthening of Balochistan Environmental
Protection Agency, 7) Environment Section in P&D Department.
The executing agencies were BFD, BEPA and the Environment Section in the P&D Department.
The section in the P&D was mainly responsible for coordination and monitoring of the
sub-projects.
2.     Borrower's Assessment
2.1    Project Obiectives:
The Government of Pakistan as well as the Provincial Govenmment assign high priority to combat
the pollution, strengthening of environmental institutions and promotion of sustainable use of
natural resources and their development as specified in the Pakistan Conservation Strategy. The
objectives of the BNRM Project were to improve/protect the environment and management of
natural resources of Balochistan in a sustainable manner. The objectives were to be achieved
through:
(i)    Strengthening of principal environmental and natural resource institutions within the
Provincial P&D and Forest & Environment Departments,
(ii)   To devise policies for improved and sustainable use of natural resources, with particular
emphasis on woodland protection, range land management and upland aquifer use,
(iii) Increasing policy makers, government official and public's awareness of damage being
done to the environment and natural resources,
(iv)   Addressing some immediate high priority resources management problems, and
(v)    Undertaking studies and preparation of projects on environment and natural resource
management.
2.1.1  Strengthening the Legislative and Policy Framework:
Prior to conceiving of the BNRM Project, the Pakistan Environmental Protection Ordinance 1983,
was the, basic environmental law. This Ordinance did not address many significant environmental
- 23 -



issues and left grey areas in its implementation mechanism. The Legal Expert engaged under this
project assisting the Balochistan environmental Protection Agency (BEPA) / Provincial
Government in formulating a comprehensive Environmental Protection Ordinance 2000, developed
the preliminary draft and being examined by a Committee consisting of the legal experts, the
concerned departments and NGOs. Once the draft is ready, the same will be vetted from the Law
Department and submitted to the Governor Balochistan for its approval and promulgation.
2.1.2  Awareness
The project supported mass awareness activities organized by the Balochistan Protection Agency
through public gathering, walk, celebrating the Intemational environment Day, radio talks and TV
messages. In addition under BFD activities various Village Organizations (VOs),
Community-based Organizations (CBUs), were made at Ziarat and Quetta regarding conservation
of natural resources. Moreover the community of Chur Bundar (at Gawadar - actively participated
in sand dunes stabilization through planting. For the purpose a complete awareness package was
launched by the sociologist. However, there is lot of room for maintaining the sustainability in
creating awareness and the same will be a continuous activity for the coming years.
2.1.3  Training
The project envisaged foreign and local training to enhance skills of professionals and other staff in
the field of environment like park management, wildlife, social forestry, formulation & monitoring,
plantation and watershed management activities. The foreign training facilities were almost
achieved while the local training facilities were partially achieved. Two degree courses at abroad
has also been completed.
2.1.4  Environmental Improvement through Afforestation/Soil Conservation
The project successfully met its objectives of conserving natural resource through afforestation in
different critical areas especially in Pasni, Gawadar and Pishukan. Local community at respective
areas was involved in project execution.
2.2   Implementation:
When the BNRM Project was conceived, the BEPA as well as Environment Section were newly
established/created with very inadequate staff, responsible for environmental matters, coordination
and monitoring, etc. Besides, the delay occurred in hiring of the consultants and non-availability of
their office of one of the firms in Quetta and controlling the performance of the consultants from
Islamabad, frequent changes at the middle as well as high level of the project staff, ban on
purchase of equipment and training in abroad also affected the performance of the project. Inspite
of these constraints, works carried out in certain components were satisfactory.
2.3    Financial Targets
The project could not achieve its financial targets envisaged in the Development Credit Agreement.
The low utilization was due to delay in the start of project (almost 1 year behind schedule);
replacement and delay in expatriate engagement, ban on the foreign training and procurement of
equipment etc.
3.     Lessons Learned:
(i)    The programme under the BNRM Project and physical targets envisaged were over
ambitious. In future, simple projects may be designed with identification of specific
priority areas, as per capacity of the Implementing Agencies (lAs).
- 24 -



(ii)   Liaison and coordination among implementing agencies was inadequate during the
implementation of the projects. The Environment Section in the P&D Department should
have been made responsible for coordination, liaison and policy issues. The maintenance
and operation of the assignment account should have not been made the responsibility of
the Environment Section and assigned to the respective lAs.
(iii)  The Consultant Services/technical input should have been provided according to the time
schedule proposed in the project docjumenmt/PC-l. Late appointment/replacement of
expatriate Consultants delayed the project output and achievement of the project objectives
within the project period. Local Consultants should be given preference in this regard.
Moreover the performance of consultancy firms (EDC, WWF) was not at par. Although
reports prepared by them could not be reviewed in detail but their studies at a glance
revealed that the reports/plans were deficient in many ways.
(iv)   The procedures laid down by the World Bank as well as by the implementing
agencies/departments needs to be simplified for gearing up the project activities and quick
achievement of the defined goals.
(v)    The disbursement should have been made directly to the project administration instead of
some other agency to shorten the procedural/local formalities and to speed up the activities
under the project. The disbursement mechanism at different levels for various
sub-components also complicated the implementation process.
(vi)   The lack of proper management within the BFD also affected the flow of funds from the
special account and affected the performance of various projects adversely. Due
consideration to this aspect will be given in the projects to come in the future.
4.     Performance of Individual Sub-projects
The sub-project-wise achievement evaluation is as under:
BEPA
BEPA as ES was newly created with bare minimum staff. However, within short span of its
existence it succeeded to have a break through in a number of major air pollution problems and
institutional framework. Closure of brick kilns and snuff (naswar) grinding mills in Quetta City
and Pishin respectively has improved the quality of air.
The successful instrumental role of BEPA became fruitful in establishment of Compressed Natural
Gas (CNG) station by the Federal governnent with assistance of CIDA for conversion of Vehicles
and Rickshaws to CNG. This will further reduce the air pollution in the Quetta City. The
establishment of the Balochistan Environmental Protection Council consisting of Government and
non Governnental organizations will go a long way to device sound policy, gear up enviromnental
projects and improve the environmental situation. The Environmental Protection Ordinance 2000,
is another achievement under the project which will empower the BEPA to enforce the
environmental laws in the province. However, inspite of the said major achievements, few studies
could not be undertaken by the BEPA in view of the time constraints.
- 25 -
-e _ _   -  - 



Environment Section in the P&DD
This section was also newly created with the commencement of the BNRM Project. During the
first 2-3 years the section remained understaffed and implemented its activities with a minimum
number of staff. The subject of environment being new, no trained and experienced staff were
available on the subject in the ES. Although the ES was to play the role of coordination,
monitoring, devise policy framework, to conduct some special studies, but the location of the
special account within the P&D minimized its main role and started dealing with the
reimbursement applications. However, the ES during the last 6 months simplified the procedure
for processing of the reimbursement applications, which resulted in speedy disbursement, which
geared up the progress of some of the activities of the BFD as well as BEPA.
The ES being located at the highest level in the province could play as a focal point to deal with all
the environmental issues and devising policy framework under the guidance of the Balochistan
Environmental Protection Council.
Planning and Implementing Coordination Cell
The sub-project was concluded as satisfactory. The major components of construction of DFO,
RFO residences at Quetta were completed in addition to overseas and inland short courses and
engagement of local consultants. However, its coordination and monitoring role of the sub-projects
within the BFD and BEPA was not of the desired level.
Conservation and Management of Juniper Forests, Ziarat
The component's targets could not be achieved fully but few important tasks like zonation,
preparation of Juniper Management Plan, disease control measures, soil conservation activities,
fencing of core zones and nursery raising/research at limited scale were carried out. The Juniper
Management Plan is yet to be completed in all respects which will be done through engagement of
a local consultant by the GOB.
Watershed Rangeland Rehabilitation Program
The sub-project was not carried out satisfactorily, only limited scale activities could be carried out.
Sand Dunes Stabilization
Under this component achievement was about 20%. However, the community has appreciated this
limited plantation and desires to undertake the same on larger scale. The University of Karachi
who were given the task of research on various aspects of sand movements, could not complete
their task and only completed a study on rodents that damages the young mesquite seedlings. The
buildings are yet to be completed.
Hazarganji Chiltan National Park
This is one of the sub-projects, where the achievements made were satisfactory. These included
training, preparation of a park management plan by the WWF, fencing of the park boundary, DFO
office, residence for deputy rangers, development of water points, water storage tanks with
pipelines, plantation of seedlings and one community center. Besides, the population of the unique
Chiltan Markhor doubled from about 400 - 800 during the project life.
However, a visitor center for display of exhibits, photographs and video films of Balochistan's
wildlife, plants, geography and the environment could not be completed. The Provincial
Government has reflected the scheme in the Provincial PSDP 2000-01 for "Establishment of
Recreational District at Hazaganji", under which some of the left over activities could be
- 26 -



undertaken.
The physical achievements made under various sub-projects are as under:
Sub-Project "Mekran Coast Sand Dunes Stabilization at Gawadar"
SCOPE OF WORK                                     ACHIEVEMENTS
Seedlings production for Sand Dunes (Planting 5,000  1,600 million Nos.
million Nos.)
Seedling production for community forestry (0.30   0.20 million Nos.
million Nos.)
Sand Dune fixation planting @ 1150 trees per ha over  1150 trees per ha over 1074 ha.
5000 ha in Pasni, Gawadar and Pishukan.
Construction of buildings for DFO office Residence and  Roof level.
guest house at Gawadar (covered area 960 sqm)
Community planting 60,000 plants                   3,000 plants raised
2.     Sub-Project "Improvement of Hazarganii Chiltan National Park, Ouetta"
SCOPE OF WORK                                     ACHIEVEMENTS
Preparation of Park Management Plan (by            Completed.
WWF-Pakistan).
Fencing of 16 km.                                  12 km. Completed.
Demarcation of core zone (Construction of 250      Completed.
boundary pillars lose stone)
Construction of DFO office (one) Deputy Rangers    Roof level.
residence (three)
Development of Water-point (5 Nos.)                Completed
Construction of path 30 km.                        21 _km. Completed
Wildlife census                                    Wildlife census done
(806 Chiltan Markhor counted)
Wildlife observation points 3 Nos.                 Completed
Landscape facilities                               Partially completed
Storage tank with pipeline                         Completed
Planting of trees and shrubs                       8000 plants raised
Community participation canpaign for conservation  Community participation campaign for conservation
activities and implementation of the plan          activities launched Community centre has been
constructed at Annari village (Chiltan) 34 machines
have also been provided to the community of Annari
including 25% cost share by the community.
Inland & overseas study tour and short courses in  Inland & overseas study tour and short courses in
National Park and Wildlife Management.             National park and Wildlife Management were carried
out.
Construction of Water points of Markhor.           One RCC Pond constructed for storage of water for
Markhor at Duzdara (Chiltan).
- 27 -



3.     Sub-Project "Conservation and Management of Juniper Forests, Ziarat"
SCOPE OF WORK                                     ACHIEVEMENTS
Soil Conservation works (construction/maintenance of  Construction of check dams at 7236 ha.
check dams, trenches, etc. over 10,000 ha.)        Excavation of trenches on 6838 ha, raising of
nurseries 0.4 million potted plants and 2.0 ha.
bedded nursery.
Juniper disease (Mistletoe) control                Eradication of Mistletoe infected trees (31000 trees
surveyed, 3500 trees identified, and branches of 2930
trees removed).
Boundary fencing of:                               In progress
Zone A= Installation of 16 km. (1500 ha.) fence
Zone B= Construction of 60 pillars
Zone C= Construction of 320 pillars                                                                       i
Construction of buildings:                         Completed
DFO Office             1   250 sqm.
RFO Residence          2   300 sqm.
DFO Residence          1   250 sqm.
Vehicle Shed           1   160 sqm.
Total            960 sqm
Community planting 5000 trees                      15000 trees planted
Public awareness campaign and Seminar on Mistletoe  Public awareness Seminar on Juniper Mistletoe control
control.                                           held.
Construction of green houses                       3 Nos. (100x25) green houses completed
Procurement of equipment and tools                 Computer with printer       1 No.
Photocopier                 1 No.
Motorcycle                  8 Nos.
Tractor with accessories    4 Nos.
Double cabin Pick-up (4x4)   3 Nos.
4.     Sub-Project "Watershed Rangeland Rehabilitation Program"
SCOPE OF WORK                                     ACHIEVEMENTS
Seedlings production                               0.5 million potted plant
Land improvement in watershed of fodder planting over  Completed over 150 ha.
1000 ha.
Planting of Salt bush (fodder banks) on 5 sites over 30  Completed on 2 sites over 30 ha. Each in Quetta and
ha. each in Quetta, Ziarat, Loralai, Q. Saifullah and  Loralai District. Salt bush is in progress.
Zhob.
Procurement of tools and equipment.                Computers                      1 No.
Tractor                        1 No.
Double Cabin Pick-up (4x4)    1 No.
- 28 -



5.     Sub-Project "Planning and Implementing Coordination Cell"
SCOPE OF WORK                                     ACHIEVEMENTS
Residences of DFO & RFO planning                   Completed
Inland & overseas training and short courses       Inland short courses on procurement and
social/community forestry at PFI Peshawar.
Engagement of local consultants                    Forestry expert & sociologist were engaged.
6.     Sub-Project "Strengthening of Environmental Protection Agency. Balochistan"
SCOPE OF WORK                                     ACHIEVEMENTS
Construction of office buildings at Quetta.        80% physical work completed
Procurement of office equipment & furniture.       Procured.
Procurement of pollution measuring equipment.      Completed.
Consultancies on industrial & urban waste, EIA etc.  Partially engaged.
Training - local & international                   Partially engaged.
Mass Awareness Program                             Launched in shape of walks, meetings, seminars and
.___________________________  through mass media
5.     Evaluation of Bank's performance:
Whatever achievements were made, the contribution of Supervision Missions of the World Bank
cannot be ignored. Valuable suggestions/support were available during implementation through
regular Supervision Missions of the Bank. However, the role of Bank could have been more
fruitful if it had agreed for one years extension to adjust the time wasted in late start and inquiry
into charges of corruption/embezzlement. The Supervision carried out by the World Bank
Missions was helpful to resolve many bottlenecks and to simplify the several procedures.
6.     Conclusions
Although the overall progress remained slow and not to the desired level, but it provided a good
experience to implement such projects with better performance and zeal. Under the project,
environmental institutions were strengthened technically and logistically at the provincial level.
Besides, there has been a clear change in attitude of public and policy makers towards the
environmental issues. The project has also helped in raising the awareness on environmental
issues. Adequate environmental legal framework is under preparation which after approval would
further improve the environmental situation in Quetta particularly and in Balochistan generally.
- 29 -



Annex 9. Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR
No. E.S-P&D.Acctt:/WB/2000/
Government of Balochistan
Planning & Development Department
Dated Quetta, the November 22, 2000
To:
Mr. Najib Murtaza
Environment & Natural Resource Specialist
World Bank Office, Islamabad
Subject:BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2584-PAK) - DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
The undersigned is directed to refer to your letter of October 30, 2000 on the above subject. The
views/comments of the Provincial Government on the draft ICR are as under:
Sub-Para 3.1.2
The impression that the Provincial administration did not "owned" the objectives of the project design is not
correct. The project as originally designed with heavy budgetary allocations and involving multi-sectoral
activities, its commitment to achieve the targets and envisaged benefits (tangible in many cases) were there.
Because of mismanagement of the past setup the required targets were not achieved. But when we introduced
a fighting team, extension in time schedule was denied by the World Bank.
Hence, the above impression may kindly be deleted from the draft ICR. It would have been more beneficial if
these deficiencies should have been pointed out at the initial stages for rectification.
Sub-para 3.1.3
It is agreed that role of Environment Section, P&D Department should have primarily been focussed on
monitoring & evaluation and devising environmental policy etc. but the location of the special account within
the P&D should have not been allowed and opposed in the initial stages.
Sub-para 4.2.1
The P&D Department does not agree with the statement of the World Bank that Environment Section (E.S)
introduced some cumbersome procedure which affected the flow of funds. On the other hand the World Bank
put undue obstacles. In Hazarganji component when the top bidder refused to accept the deal we proposed to
get it implemented through No.2 bidder (who had the capacity to complete the work). The World Bank didn't
permit). The subject of environment being new, no trained and experienced staff was available on the subject
in the E.S. Although the E.S was to play the role of coordination, monitoring, devise policy framework, to
conduct some special studies, but the location of the special account within the P&D minimized its main role
and started dealing with the reimbursement applications. However, the E.S. during the last 6 months
simplified the procedure for processing of the reimbursement applications which resulted in speedy
disbursement and geared up the progress of some of the activities of the BFD as well as BEPA.
- 30 -



Sub-para 4.2.2
BEPA as ES was newly created with bare minimum staff. However, within short span of its existence, it
succeeded to have a break through in a number of major air pollution problems and institutional framework.
Closure of brick kilns and snuff (naswar) grinding mills in Quetta City and Pishin respectively has improved
the quality of air.
The successful instrumental role of BEPA became fruitful in establishment of Compressed Natural Gas
(CNG) station by the Federal Government with assistance of CIDA for conversion of Vehicles and Rickshaws
to CNG. The CNG station has recently been made functional. This will further reduce the air pollution in
Quetta City. The establishment of the Balochistan Environmental Protection Council consisting of
Government and non Governmental organizations will go a long way to devise sound policy, gear up
environmental projects and improve the environmental situation. The Environmental Protection Ordinance,
2000 is another achievement under the project which will empower the BEPA to enforce the environmental
laws in the province.
Regarding mass awareness Environmental Protection Agency carried out painting competition and debate
contests among the students, organized awareness walks and actively participated in television and radio
programs.
Construction of Environmental Protection Agency office building with cost estimate of Rs. 13.3 million. The
vital component of the project is almost complete within a short span.
The procurement of lab equipment along with portable instruments has been accomplished and will be installed
in the new office building.
The Environmental Protection Agency is financially supporting the NGOs working on Solid Waste
Management and tree plantation in Loralai, Killa Abdullah and Sibbi Districts through NGO fund provided by
Federal Government. Mega projects like Hingol National Park and S.D.S.P. are in process.
Consultants were pre-qualified for the special studies i.e. study of air pollution in Quetta City and study of
solid waste management in four major towns/cities of Balochistan but the World Bank refused to accord
N.O.C. due to time constraint.
In view of the above facts, there is no rational to declare the Environmental Protection Agency, Balochistan as
unsatisfactory, incidentally its performance was declared satisfactory in the last two aide-memoires.
Sub-para 7.2
The World Bank performance should also be rated as unsatisfactory when all indicators have been rated as
unsatisfactory, due to reason that none of the aide-memoire pointed out the irregularities as BFD not only
dig-out the issue but appropriate measure/actions were also taken. It is also not out of place to mention that
the Mission did not rectify the cumbersome reimbursement procedures even at MTR. The Bank is equally
responsible for the slow progress because of flow of funds as admitted in the draft, the Bank could have
rectified this.
The Government is not agreed with the end remarks that the Bank reviewed and could not agree to the
extension of BNRMP, given project's marginal performance and governance issues as the Provincial
Government has taken right time right measure and in the last two years the progress of the project was
satisfactory with one or two exceptions. The Government repeatedly requested for extension but all efforts
- 31 -



could not mold the already made minds.
signed/-
(ASLAM SHAKIR BALOCH)
Assistant Chief (Environment)
(081) 9201677 - Fax: 9202419
- 32 -
-                                                 .  .                             -   - -   I        .        -- _  



MAP SECTIONI
L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
l
,,!r,  .  _  _ .        .       . _   .   __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 2491 7
-32,  aala                                                       98'             JA,-tW F.-
i       ~~~BALOCHISTAN NATURAL RESOURCE NAANILGEP-\ENT     /    
, _              ~~~~~PROJECT                     <           } 
>         mF;k-,~~~~PR JEC-ik-REa AS<w @
.  .  |   6  K -  A    -.   <              5 I Pl D H~~TTA  A 
)1 -4 ir..'S           '-  / Nz  RrHt 
KILoMeTeRs   | .~      ~     ~~~~~~,  7 'KI;
28'~~~~.                      .          I
K                 T                   I P, I.. 



