CREDIT NUMBER 2584 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Balochistan Natural Resource Management Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                 1994


﻿CREDT NUMBER 2584 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     , 1994, between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Project will be carried out by the Province of
Balochistan (the Province) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
Province the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
Province;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "the Province" means the Province of Balochistan, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Province, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;


﻿-2-
(c)   "P&D" means the Planning and Development Department of
the Province;
(d)   "ES" means the Environmental Section to be established
in P&D under Part A.1 (a) of the Project;
(e)   "BEPA" means the Environmental Protection Agency of the
Province;
(f)   "BFD" means the Forest Department of the Province;
(g)   "ECNEC" means the Executive Committee of the Borrower's
National Economic Council;
(h)   "PFI" means the Pakistan Forest Institute;
(i)   "AZRI" means the Arid Zone Research Institute of the
Pakistan Agricultural Research Council;
(j)   "UOK" means the University of Karachi;
(k)   "WWF" means the World Wide Fund      for Nature, an
international non-governmental organization;
(1)   "PSC" means the Project Steering Committee referred to
in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(M)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and in Section 2.01 (c) of the
Project Agreement;
(n)   "Rs" and "rupees" mean the currency of the Borrower; and
(0)   "FY" and "fiscal year" mean the fiscal year of the
Borrower or the Province, as the case may be, covering the period
July 1 through June 30.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies


﻿-3-
equivalent to ten million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 10,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
cause the Province to open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the   Association  shall  reasonably   request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1
commencing August 1, 2004 and ending February 1, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1,
2014 shall be one and one-fourth per cent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Additional Chief Secretary, P&D of the
Province is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause the Province to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the
Province therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Province to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to the Province.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by the Province pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made; and
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section for each
fiscal  year   audited,  in   accordance  with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine (9) months
after the end of each such year the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such
fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals; and


﻿-7-
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the Province shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Province
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60)
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that ECNEC has approved the Planning Commission
(PC)-1 document with respect to the Project.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Province, and is legally
binding upon the Province in accordance with its terms.


﻿-8-
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary, or Section Officer in that Division of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                 Telex:
ECONOMIC                  ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By/5
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 15                      tZq
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil, forest and         5,940,000      90%
field works
(2)   Equipment, vehicles         440,000      100% of foreign
and materials                            expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
70% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)   Consultants'              1,890,000      100%
services and foreign
training
(4)  Mass awareness               290,000      100%
program and local
training


﻿- 11
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Incremental staff           580,000        80% until an
and operating costs                       amount equivalent
to SDR 231,700
has been disbursed
from this Cate-
gory; 70% there-
after until an
amount equivalent
to SDR 435,000
has been disbursed
from this Cate-
gory; and 50%
thereafter
(6)   Unallocated               1,560,000
TOTAL                     10,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "incremental staff and operating costs" means
the salaries and allowances of staff appointed by the Province to
posts created after September 30, 1993 for purposes of implementing
the Project, and the operating and maintenance expenditures for
vehicles and civil works procured under the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for:
(a) expenditures under contracts for works which cost less than the
equivalent of $125,000 each; (b) expenditures under contracts for
goods and mass awareness services which cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 each; and (c) expenditures for forest and
field works, training and incremental staff and operating costs,
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Province in
improving the protection of its environment and the management of
its natural resources and, to that end, to: (a) strengthen
institutions; (b) develop policies; (c) generate mass awareness; (d)
address immediate high priority problems; and (e) prepare future
programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    Strengthening of:
(a)   P&D,  through   the  establishment  therein   of   an
Environmental Section (ES), which would be responsible, in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association,
for the coordination of all environmental matters, the formulation
of environmental policy, legislation and regulations, ensuring the
reflection of environmental considerations in development planning
and investments and the initiation of policy/market improvements to
secure the sustainable use of natural resources;
(b)   BEPA, so as to enable it to implement and enforce
national and provincial environmental protection legislation,
particularly with regard to industrial, urban and agricultural
discharges into the air, water and soil, and to create official and
public awareness of environmental problems; and
(c)   BFD, so as to enable it to improve its capabilities in
the   areas  of   community  extension,   project  planning   and
implementation, and national park management.
2.    Carrying out of mass awareness programs, so as to educate
decision-makers and the public in environmental issues and to
generate public support for, and participation in, measures to
protect the environment.


﻿- 14 -
3.    Carrying out of studies for: (a) improvement of environmental
pollution and natural resource management policies; and (b)
preparation of future natural resource management projects.
Part B:     Natural Resource Rehabilitation
Carrying out of:
(1)   operations to rehabilitate and develop damaged natural
resources, including: (a) sand dune stabilization on the Mekran
coast at Pasni, Gwadar and Pishukan; and (b) Hazarganji-Chiltan
National Park development; and
(2)   pilot programs to develop site-specific methods of
rehabilitating and developing damaged natural resources, including:
(a) rangeland and watershed rehabilitation and development in
northern Balochistan; and (b) Ziarat juniper forest conservation.
Part C:     Training
Provision of short-term foreign and local, and limited long-
term foreign, training in environmental protection and natural
resource management.
T  P  i
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


