Report No. PID9964
Project Name                     Brazil-Second Rural Poverty Alleviation (@)
Project - Bahia
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       BRPE57649
Borrower                         State Government of Bahia
Implementing Agency              State Secretariat for Planning, Science
and Technology (SEPLANTEC)
Date PID Prepared                March 7, 2001
Appraisal Date                   March 8, 2001
Board Date                       June 2001
1.      Country and Sector Background. Brazil is a large country with diverse
spatial and regional circumstances. This is well-illustrated by the levels of
per capita income in the North and Northeast regions, which are less than half
of the national average. The Federal Government has used its tax, transfer and
expenditure policies in an attempt to reduce regional disparities in the
provision of public services. The net impact of Federal Government transfers
resulted in a significant redistribution of resources from Brazil's richer
regions (the South and Southeast) to its poorer ones (the North, Northeast and
Center-West) in the previous decade. Despite these transfers, poverty and
inequality continue to be the most important medium to long-term development
challenges for Brazil. Policies to reduce poverty and equality include:
- increased income earning opportunities through stability and renewed
growth;
- targeted policies to enhance the human and physical capital of the poor
- through education, land reform, and urban, rural and health services -
to leverage economic opportunities, and
- a social safety net to protect against shocks in the dynamic
international economy.
2.     Contrary to popular opinion, poverty in Brazil is not an overwhelmingly
urban phenomenon. In fact, despite the considerably larger urban population,
rural poverty is so widespread that, in absolute numbers, approximately 43% of
the population in poverty are actually rural. From a regional perspective,
rural poverty is concentrated in the Northeast, and comprises the single
largest concentration of rural poverty in Latin America. The Northeast
consists of nine states, and part of a tenth, with a combined land area of 1.6
million km2--16% of Brazil's total land area. The Northeast Region includes
the States of Maranhao, PiauU, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, ParaUba,
Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia and the northern part of the State of
Minas Gerais. The Northeast is home to 28%, or 45 million, of Brazil's 160
million people, 16.8 million of whom are rural. Of these Northeast rural
households, 38% (6.4 million people) live on about US$1 per day (a number
which jumps to 56% or 9.4 million people at around US$2 per day).
3.     Overall, around 17 million people in Northeast Brazil live in poverty.
In the rural areas of the Northeast, the incidence of poverty is 48.8%, while
in urban areas, the incidence is 30.7%. Given higher urban population
figures, these estimates result in roughly similar numbers of poor people in



urban and rural areas of the Northeast: some 8 million individuals in rural
poverty and 9 million in urban poverty.
4.     Development indicators for Northeast Brazil paint a dismal picture,
compared to the rest of Brazil. The region has: (a) a rate of chronic
malnutrition of children under five at 27t and, in the rural areas, 31-,
compared to 15t nationwide; (b) 37T of households without piped water supply
(reaching 77T in the rural areas), compared to 14t nationwide; (c) 37T of
rural households without electricity, compared to 25t for the rural
nationwide; and (d) 25t of all households (55w of rural households) lacking
access to proper sanitation facilities, compared to 9t nationwide. The adult
literacy rate in the Northeast is 60w, compared to 86t nationwide. The poor
natural resource base, chronic drought and limited access to land, water and
financial resources exacerbate poverty. A recent poverty review of Brazil
finds annual per-capita incomes in the Northeast - estimated at R$2,123
(US$1,135) - are 42t of the overall national annual of R$4,945 (US$2,644).
5.     The State of Bahia has the highest absolute number of households living
in poverty in the Northeast. Given its large population size, Bahia's overall
poverty rate of 39.1-, jumping to 47.1- in rural Bahia, represents more than 5
million persons, breaking down to roughly 2.3 million in rural areas, and 2.7
million in urban areas. Nearly three-fourths of rural Bahia households lack
piped water supply, 56t are without sanitation services, and slightly more
than one-half of rural households remain without electricity.
6.      Project Objectives. The proposed project would assist the State
Government of Bahia to reduce the state's high levels of rural poverty. To
help reduce poverty levels in the State, the project would deliver services to
poor rural families, employing a tested community-based approach that builds
on the lessons of two successful Bank-financed programs: the Reformulated
Northeast Rural Development Program (R-NRDP), and the subsequent Rural Poverty
Alleviation Program (RPAP). The proposed project aims to alleviate rural
poverty and its consequences by: (a) increasing social and economic
opportunities of the rural poor by improving access to basic, social and
income-generating infrastructure; (b) increasing the social capital of
communities to organize effectively and meet own needs; and (c) fostering
local governance and citizenship through creation and strengthening of project
municipal councils, at the same time forging links to government, NGOs, civil
society, financial institutions and the private sector. The proposed project
in Bahia would be part of a series of operations, following on from the Rural
Poverty Alleviation Project for Bahia (Loan 3917-BR) and similar projects in
seven other Northeast States, which were approved over the period from
December 1995 to September 1997, and are expected to close from June 2001 to
June 2002.
7.      Project Description. The Project would provide matching grants to rural
community associations to finance small-scale subprojects (up to US$50,000
each) identified by these groups as priority investments that would improve
community well-being. Project funds would be disbursed directly to community
associations to finance the implementation of approximately 3,950 community
subprojects. The matching grants would be disbursed under three subprograms -
FUMAC, FUMAC-P and PAC.
- Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC). FUMAC will be the primary delivery
mechanism under the proposed project, constituting 54w, or US$40.6m of
total project funds. In FUMAC, decision-making on subproject approval is
delegated by the State to project Municipal Councils, composed of community
members and representatives of civil society and municipal authorities. At
least 80 percent of municipal council members are potential beneficiaries
of the project. The project municipal councils prioritize the demands
-2 -



presented by rural communities through local consensus-building and approve
subprojects, within an indicative annual budget, for financing by the STU
which then disburses funds for subproject implementation directly to
approved community associations.
- Pilot Municipal Community Funds (FUMAC-P). The FUMAC-P is a more
decentralized variant of FUMAC. It is expected that 27t of total component
costs, or US$20.2m would be invested under in the proposed project. Under
FUMAC-P, Project municipal councils prioritize and approve subprojects
submitted by rural communities and then finance them within the context of
an annual budget envelope defined by the STU according to a distribution
formula, based on clear and measurable criteria, such as rural population,
poverty levels and previous year's performance. Based on this budget, the
Municipal Councils prepare and submit an Annual Operating Plan (POA - Plano
Operativo Anual) to the STU for approval. Upon approval, funds are
transferred to the municipal council, which is then responsible for
transferring funds to and assisting community associations to implement
approved subprojects. The project would emphasize the integration of
FUMAC-P council activities with broader municipal planning and budgeting
processes.
- State Community Schemes (PAC).    It is expected that up to 9t, or US$6.7m
of total project costs would be invested through PAC in the proposed
project. Under PAC, rural communities submit their subproject investment
proposals directly to the State Technical Unit (STU). The STU screens, and
approves subprojects and releases funds directly to the beneficiary
communities.
8.     The proposed project would also finance institutional development
through technical assistance and training to increase the capacity of
implementing entities, including Municipal Councils, Community Associations
and the State Technical Unit. Also included would be funds to support
technical assistance to the state government for modernization and reform of
the State. Finally, the project would finance incremental costs of project
administration and coordination including supervision, monitoring and impact
evaluation.
9.     Project Financing. The total project cost is US$75.0 million, of which
the Bank would finance US$54.4 million (73%). The State Government of Bahia
will provide counterpart funding of US$13.9 million (18%), while community
associations will provide US$6.7 million (9%), in cash or in kind.
10.    Project Implementation. The Secretariat of Planning, Science and
Technology (SEPLANTEC) of the State of Bahia would undertake project
oversight, delegating project coordination to CAR (Companhia de
Desenvolvimento e AOao Rural), which would receive and approve the Annual
Operating Plans for the project Municipal Councils (and would receive and
approve community subproject proposals in the case of PAC).     CAR will be
responsible for day-to-day project oversight with respect to monitoring,
supervision of municipal councils, evaluation and required reporting under the
project.
11.    Community Associations comprise locally-based groups with a common
interest who are organized into legally-constituted civil associations.
Community associations will be responsible for identifying, preparing,
implementing, supervising, operating and maintaining their own subprojects,
assisted by technical specialist contracted directly by community groups, as
well as technical assistance and training made available by municipal councils
and the State Technical Unit. For subproject related assistance in design and
implementation, community associations have access to a percentage of
-3 -



subproject costs.
12.    Municipal Councils composed of representatives of beneficiaries and
civil society (constituting 80t of the membership), as well as local
government (20w of membership) - are the key organization for targeting of
benefits, for allocating resources under the project, and provide a critical
link to local government thereby promoting long term institutional
sustainability of the program. They have a fundamental role in mobilizing
communities and promoting community participation in municipal decision
making. Councils receive, prioritize and approve subproject proposals from
community associations, during regularly scheduled and widely publicized
meetings that the public is encouraged to attend. The Councils then prepare
annual investment plans which they provide to State Technical Unit. The
Municipal Councils also play a supervisory role for the community associations
during both preparation and implementation of subprojects.
13.    The State Technical Unit - CAR - administered and implemented the
previous Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (Ln. 3917-BR) and would continue to
serve as the State Technical Unit for the proposed project. CAR would
maintain its existing responsibilities for overall project coordination with
increased decentralization of duties to its sixteen regional offices. Under
the proposed project, CAR would increasingly delegate its supervision
activities to Municipal Councils and concentrate its activities on supervision
of the Municipal Councils, as well as general coordination and promotion of
the project. These duties include continuous execution of the information
campaign, project reporting, impact evaluation, updating the Management
Information System, as well as the design and provision of tailored training
modules for Municipal Councils and community associations on key project
issues.
14.    Project Sustainability. Financial analyses and field investigations
confirm the sustainability of the investment subprojects funded by the
project. A sample of over 8,000 community subprojects funded in 1995 (under
the R-NRDP) and in 1997/98 (under RPAP) was reviewed and it was found that 89t
of these subprojects are fully operational to date. Analysis of productive
subprojects revealed that cost recovery through user fees paid by community
associations is adequate to cover both operation and maintenance and
replacement of the original investment long before the end of its useful
economic life. Beneficiary participation at all stages of the subproject
cycle, as well as significant levels of community contribution (up to 25%)
help to ensure subprojects are maintained. Further, the democratic process
intrinsic to FUMAC and FUMAC-P ensure better selection and prioritization of
subprojects by beneficiaries, enhancing long term sustainability.     The
Project requires the establishment of community funded operation and
maintenance plans - only subprojects that have realistic maintenance plans
would be approved and financed. Subproject maintenance would be monitored by
Municipal Councils and CAR during the Project.     Performance incentives for
proper operation and maintenance are included in project design.
15.     Lessons from Bank Experience. As the principal lending institution
engaged in a sustained, long-term relationship with the Brazilian Government
to address rural poverty issues in the Northeast, the Bank is particularly
well-placed to support expansion of the existing program of community-based
rural development in the region. The Bank contributes its experience under
the successful community-based Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (RPAPs) in
Bahia and another seven states of Northeast Brazil - a program that has
served as a template in the design of the proposed project. The RPAP provides
a wealth of lessons regarding how to successfully design and implement
community-based rural development, which are cited below.
- 4 -



16.    Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making and
implementation from federal to state and local governments, to community
associations, ensures efficient program administration and superior outcomes.
Experience shows that decentralized community approaches reduce bureaucracy,
eliminate administrative bottlenecks and reinforce accountability for project
performance by placing decision-makers near beneficiaries. Under the new
project the existing, decentralized institutional structure will be further
devolved, with increased delegation of duties to municipal councils and
greater utilization of STU regional offices to promote more responsive and
local level monitoring, data collection, coordination, and supervision.
Participation by beneficiaries in the selection, financing, execution, and
operation and maintenance of subprojects has ensured that investments meet
genuine community needs, led to cost savings, and has increased community
'ownership' leading to improved sustainability of investments. This
methodology will be continued under the proposed project.
17.    Poverty targeting mechanisms that are simple, verifiable and based on
objective criteria, can foster transparency, minimize political interference
in project resource allocation and ensure that project resources reach the
poorest communities. Experience with project municipal councils demonstrates
that communities are the best-positioned and informed to target effectively.
Under the new project, broad targeting will be undertaken (i) at the municipal
level, with indicative budgets assigned to each municipal council,
differentiated according to poverty indices; and (ii) at the community level,
by the Municipal councils.
18.    Supervision has been found to be an indispensable determinant of success
and sustainability. It needs to be reinforced at all levels and involve local
entities closest to the communities, particularly Municipal Councils and NGOs.
Under the new project supervision responsibilities will be increasingly
devolved to MCs, who will be supported with training and technical assistance
from external partners. Measures will also be taken to modernize all Councils,
gradually providing computers and information technology to all of them.
19.    A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system facilitates the
subproject evaluation process, provides feedback and necessary information to
improve targeting and efficiency, and is an essential management and planning
tool. Under the new project major revisions will be undertaken to the MIS to
improve real time monitoring of the entire project cycle, and to allow more
accurate assessment of project impact. A rigorous impact evaluation component
will also be introduced to measure the gains achieved from the subproject
investments.
20.    Dissemination of "best practices", such as experiences with NGOs in
Rio Grande do Norte, EMATERCE in Ceara, FUMAC Councils in Bahia and Sergipe
and FUMAC-P Councils in Pernambuco can hasten learning and reward innovation.
Under the new project exchanges between states, municipalities and communities
will be expanded further using training seminars, and workshops.
Standardization of subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs
simplifies the subproject preparation and evaluation process, improves the
quality of subprojects, facilitates the procurement of goods and works,
prevents over-design and enables participation by poorer communities. The
existing database of standard designs and documentation will be reviewed,
technically updated where necessary, and further expanded under the new
project.
21.    Environmental protection criteria for the proposed project, based on
approaches applied under the previous project, will ensure subprojects
adequately deal with environmental issues. Experience demonstrates, that
because of their small scale, most subprojects do not have a significant
- 5 -



effect on the environment. Nevertheless, the detailed environmental checklist
developed under RPAP will be maintained and updated for the proposed project.
Where environmental issues are a concern, standard subproject designs have
been developed and will continue to be used by communities and Municipal
Councils during subproject implementation. Further, an environmental
specialist will be maintained at the STU to provide additional technical
assistance on environmental matters as well as provide training to increase
environmental awareness of Municipal Councils and community groups.
22.    Technical assistance enhances the ability of community associations and
Municipal Councils to identify, prepare and implement subprojects, thereby
augmenting their capacity to compete for investment funds. Technical
assistance needs to be targeted to weaker municipalities to improve their
planning, management and financial capacity to participate in the project.
Locating and/or developing sources of technical assistance in rural areas
requires significant attention and needs to be monitored at the local level.
Under the new project increased attention will be placed on training at the
community level - funds will be made available for the appointment of
'technical advisors' to be recruited by each municipal council. These
advisors will be responsible for managing and coordinating local technical and
training needs. Increasing efforts will also be placed on more meaningful
involvement of civil society (e.g., NGOs and other civil and church groups) -
particularly with respect to increasing the flow of information, mobilizing
the poorest groups and supporting training activities at the community level.
23.    A clearly-defined, well-disseminated and enforceable system of checks
and balances is essential to ensure proper use of funds and sound targeting of
resources. Rules and procedures for a system of checks and balances,
including guidelines for performance incentives and penalties, will be
reviewed and updated for adoption under the new project.
24.    The PAC approach should be minimized, particularly since the FUMAC
component performed significantly better (under the R-NRDP and particularly
the RPAP), and shows clear advantages with respect to targeting,
sustainability and social capital formation in poor rural communities. Under
the new project, FUMAC and FUMAC-P subprograms will account for 81- of total
project expenditures.
25.    Productive subprojects should be subjected to rigorous selection,
preparation, technical assistance and supervision criteria. Under the new
project, a 'one-shot' seed grant will be provided to eligible productive
investments (i) that provide services for a large number of community members;
(ii) whose collective use is regulated by strict operational guidelines
(regulamento de uso); and (iii) for which operation and maintenance is assured
by charging adequate user fees to both association members and non-members.
Revised procedures for productive subprojects will be developed and outlined
in the new Project Operational Manual. Mechanisms will also be established,
with the assistance of the Bank of the Northeast, to graduate communities with
successful productive experience to alternative sources of financing,
including credit.
26.    Graduation of communities which have met basic needs, to alternative
forms of financing (including credit) ensures more equitable distribution and
improved targeting of project resources. Under the new project, communities
which have improved their relative socio-economic conditions due to prior
investments would gradually receive fewer funds during the course of project
implementation as they gain access to other sources of financing and reach a
point where a 'safety net' is no longer necessary. In field observations of
RPAP, municipal councils were found to already - albeit informally - practice
this type of 'graduation' by excluding subproject requests from those
- 6 -



communities who had already received a number of subprojects. Under the new
project, a graduation strategy will be formalized based on objective criteria
(e.g., level of accumulation of socioeconomic assets, level of community
organization and level of social well-being) encouraging these communities to
search for alternative sources of investment.    Graduation decisions will be
the responsibility of Councils in the case of FUMAC or FUMAC-P , and by CAR in
the case of PAC municipalities. The Manual of Operation will include the
frameworks, norms and procedures that will be followed for graduation. A
user-friendly version of this operational manual will be widely shared with
all the Municipal Councils immediately following project effectiveness.
27.    Poverty and Program Objective Category.   The proposed project is part of
the Bank's Program of Targeted Interventions. The Northeast Region has the
greatest incidence of poverty in Brazil, and almost one-half of the rural
population of Bahia lives below the official poverty line. The project also
employs a targeting mechanism at the beneficiary, community and municipal
level which takes into account poverty-related criteria and other key
parameters to ensure that project resources reach those communities which
contain a higher concentration of rural poor than the rest of the State.
28.    Environmental Aspects.   The proposed project has been classified as
"B".  Given their relatively small size and nature, most community
subprojects would not have a significant impact on the environment. The
project would, however, ensure proper environmental screening and enforcement
measures to prevent any negative environmental effects that certain types of
productive or infrastructure investments could produce. The Project
Operational Manual would specify environmental criteria, screening procedures
and enforcement mechanisms to be followed.
29.    Contact Points:
The InfoShop
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Luis 0. Coirolo
Task Manager
(202) 473-1820
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 23, 2001.
- 7 -



