                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32773

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-46230)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$54.35 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                           STATE OF BAHIA

                                                 FOR A

                              RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT




                                           December 27, 2005




ESSD
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                     (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                    Currency Unit = Real R$
                                          R$1.00 = US$ US$0.4255
                                        US$ 1.00 = R$2.3504

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 to     December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BB        Bank of Brazil
BN        Bank of the Northeast
CA        Community Association
CAR       Bahia Company for Regional Action (State Technical Unit)
CDD       Community-Driven Development
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CRA       Center for Environmental Resources
CTGA      Technical Committee for Environmental Guarantee (CAR)
EBDA      Bahia Company for Agro-Livestock Development
FECAMP    Fundaçao Economia de Campinas, Federal University of Campinas, São Paulo
FUMAC     Municipal Community Scheme
FUMAC-P   Pilot Municipal Community Fund
GOB       Federal Government of Brazil
HDI       United Nations Human Development Index
IBGE      Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics
IICA      International Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture
MC        Municipal Council
MIS       Management Information System
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NRDP/PAPP Northeast Rural Development Program
PAC       State Community Scheme
R-NRDP             Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program
RPAP      Rural Poverty Alleviation Project/Program
RPRP      Rural Poverty Reduction Project/Program
SEBRAE             Brazilian Service for Support to Small and Micro Enterprise
SECOMP    Secretariat for Combatting Poverty
SENAI     National Service for Industrial Learning
SENAR     National Service for Rural Training
SEPLAN             Bahia State Secretariat of Planning
STU       State Technical Unit


                                  Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                                Country Director       John Briscoe
                                 Sector Manager        John Redwood
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:              Luis O. Coirolo

                                           BRAZIL
                           Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Bahia


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
Annex 8. Borrower ICR                                                            39

Project ID: P057649                                                  Project Name: Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Bahia
Team Leader: Luis O. Coirolo                                         TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Bahia                  L/C/TF Number: SCL-46230
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (35%); Roads and highways (25%); General
                            agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (20%); Sub-national
                            government administration (10%); Power (10%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Rural policies and institutions
                            (P); Participation and civic engagement (S); Rural non-farm income
                            generation (S); Other social development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/10/2000                                     Effective: 06/15/2001                01/09/2002
     Appraisal: 03/01/2001                                         MTR: 06/15/2003
      Approval: 06/26/2001                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          STATE GOVERNMENT OF BAHIA/CAR
                      Other Partners:      Community Associations, Project Municipal Councils

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               John Briscoe                                   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director:                John Redwood                                   John Redwood
Team Leader at ICR:             Luis O. Coirolo                                Luis O. Coirolo
ICR Primary Author:             Anna F. Roumani; Raimundo N.
                                Caminha


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Project objectives are stated in the Loan Agreement as assisting the Borrower to reduce rural poverty by:
(a) improving well-being and incomes of the rural poor through better access to basic social and economic
infrastructure and services and support for productive activities, using community-driven development
(CDD) techniques; (b) increasing the social capital of rural communities to organize collectively to meet
their own needs; (c) enhancing local governance by greater citizen participation and transparency in
decision-making, through creation and strengthening of community associations and Municipal Councils;
and (d) fostering closer integration of development policies, programs and programs at the local level, by
assisting Municipal Councils to extend their role in seeking funding, priority-setting and decision-making
over resource allocation. These objectives were realistic and rational, stemming directly from previous,
successful pilots and projects in Bahia and the broader Northeast region, employing the same
community-driven development (CDD) methodology .

Project objectives were consistent with the CAS (No. 22116) and CAS Progress Report (May 24, 2001),
which recommended: (i) well-targeted anti-poverty programs to increase human and physical capital of
beneficiaries, improving their social conditions and allowing them to take advantage of economic
opportunities; and, (ii) decentralized approaches shifting expenditure and implementation responsibilities to
the States, municipalities and communities whenever appropriate and feasible. The Project targeted the
poorest communities in rural Bahia and responded to conditions on the ground. At the time of appraisal,
the State of Bahia had the highest absolute number of households living in poverty in the Northeast (partly
a function of its large population) with an overall poverty rate of exceeding 39% rising to 47% in rural
areas, or some 2.8 million people. Around three-fourths of rural households lacked piped water supply,
56% had no sanitation, and about half lacked electricity. Some 92% of the 407 municipalities comprising
the project area had a low Human Development Index (HDI)1 of <0.5.

The Project approach, as mainstreamed in 1993, diverged sharply from the centralized,
administratively-driven and largely ineffective integrated rural development programs of the 1970s and
1980s in Northeast Brazil, replacing them with decentralized, participatory, demand-based mechanisms
with a set of guiding principles to which all participating states adhere: (i) pass funds for executing
approved subprojects directly to beneficiary community associations; (ii) decentralize decision-making,
involve local authorities as participants/partners and use local cost-sharing; (iii) maintain transparent
decision-making throughout the process; (iv) entrust communities and their associations with planning,
cost-sharing, executing, operating and maintaining their project-financed investments, providing
appropriate technical assistance and training support; and (v) employ simple, explicit poverty targeting
mechanisms which can be easily monitored. Dispensing with the coordination and bureaucratic
complexities of earlier programs - sector agencies are not involved in day-to-day project
execution/coordination - enables the Northeast CDD mechanism to devote a minimum 90% of project funds
to direct community investments, the remainder financing mainly technical assistance.

To achieve its objectives, the Project employed three delivery mechanisms of increasing degrees of
decentralization, developed and tested in ten Northeast states since 1993, for subproject approval and
financing: (i) PAC (State Community Schemes): rural communities submit investment proposals directly
to the State Technical Unit (STU), which screens and approves them, releasing funds to the beneficiary
association. While considered a residual mechanism, and the least decentralized of the delivery instruments,
PAC was maintained to enable participation by municipalities unable or unwilling to establish FUMAC
Municipal Councils; (ii) FUMAC (Municipal Community Schemes): the State delegates decision-making
on investment proposals to project Municipal Councils comprising community members, representatives of



                                                      - 2 -

civil society and municipal authorities. At least 80% of Council voting members are potential or actual
project beneficiaries. Councils discuss, build consensus, establish priorities and approve community
proposals within the context of an indicative annual budget defined by the state. Following review of
proposals by the STU for consistency with the Operational Manual, funds are released directly to the
community associations; and (iii) FUMAC-P (Pilot Municipal Community Funds): more decentralized
variant of FUMAC which works with high-performing Municipal Councils. The STU establishes an
annual budget envelope according to a distributive formula based on measurable criteria. Councils submit
an annual operating plan (POA) to the STU; upon approval, the STU transfers funds to the Council which
manages their distribution to beneficiary associations and assists with subproject execution.

Strategic choices evolved from the previous operation (Rural Poverty Alleviation project) in line with the
vision of how Project objectives would be achieved: (i) strengthened emphasis on productive activities for
income generation; (ii) continued expansion and deepening of the community-based approach as
cost-effective and in touch with local realities; (iii) encouraging the emerging efforts of participatory
FUMAC Municipal Councils to integrate with other state and federal programs, continuing to discuss
priority community needs and targeting through the established Council forum; (iv) introducing the
concept of explicit definition of priority municipalities for higher funding due to lower Municipal HDI
(HDI-M); (v) further improving the MIS and the evaluation framework; and (vi) introducing a form of exit
strategy for beneficiaries of productive investments, i.e., that a community could obtain only one,
grant-based productive subproject which would give them experience in managing financial assets, making
them more attractive to financial institutions. Graduation would not apply to basic community
infrastructure, treated as a core public service and grant-financed because of the poverty targeting of the
Project.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project represented the first phase of an operation presented by Bahia to the Federal Government and
approved by the External Financing Committee (COFIEX) of the National Treasury in 2000. In its
approval, and based on tight fiscal parameters for State borrowing, COFIEX divided the original operation
into two phases of US$54.35 million each and established three conditions which would trigger the second
phase: (i) satisfactory implementation of the first phase; (ii) 50% of first-phase Loan proceeds disbursed;
and (iii) an additional 25% of first phase proceeds committed.

Project components were as follows: (a) Community Subprojects (est. US$67.5 million, 90% of total
cost) provided matching grants to rural community associations to finance around 3,500 small-scale
investments of up to US$50,000 each, selected, executed, operated and maintained by the beneficiaries
themselves; (b) Institutional Development (est. US$4.5 million, 6% of total cost) financing technical
assistance and training to increase the capacity of the implementing entities including the project-created
Municipal Councils, community associations and the State Technical Unit (CAR). Funds were also
included to support state modernization and reform activities relevant to poverty reduction, an activity
successfully tested under the previous project (Rural Poverty Alleviation Project - Bahia, Loan 3917-BR)
as an element of the broader, Bank-State policy dialogue; and (c) Project Administration (est. US$3.0
million, 4% of total cost) financing the incremental costs (excluding salaries) of project administration and
coordination including supervision, monitoring and impact evaluation.

Experience under the preceding project showed that these actions - including the allocation of the vast bulk
of project resources to direct subproject investments - were likely to achieve project objectives and benefit



                                                        - 3 -

an estimated 250,000 poor rural families, or about 1.1 million people. CAR, supported by its established
Regional Offices, was both competent and committed to good quality implementation and fully understood
all aspects of the Project. Funding was included for training of CAR technicians and administrators to
further strengthen capacity. Lessons from previous projects both in Bahia and other participating states
were well-defined and heeded in project design. Project targeting was also further refined by providing
significantly more funds per municipality for the poorest 170 municipalities. At the community level,
targeting was community-based, depending on the Councils' priority-setting process to permit the
communities (through their majority membership of the Councils) to determine where resources would be
best applied, based on local knowledge.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated Satisfactory by the ICR (the Project did not receive a QAG review). The reasons
for this rating are spelled out in 3.1 above. Further, the Project was rated Category B for environment, the
Project being deemed to not have a significant impact on the environment due to the relatively small size of
subprojects. The Operational Manual incorporated an Environmental Checklist which had already become
standard practice under the previous project (Rural Poverty Alleviation Project) in Bahia. Improved
environmental criteria, screening and enforcement procedures were specified for each type of subproject.
Project risks were candidly stated in the PAD, based on the history and realities of the rural Northeast and
the nature of the participatory methodology and delivery mechanisms, and prudent measures were
developed for their mitigation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Rated Satisfactory

Data provided in this ICR is derived from diverse sources including three recent studies by the Fundação
Economia de Campinas, Federal University of Campinas, São Paulo (FECAMP) under a contract with the
International Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture (IICA). The methodology employed by these studies
is summarized below:

(a)      The first surveyed 3,271 households in the Northeast States of Bahia, Ceará and Pernambuco in
2004, compiling data on a sample of beneficiaries and a control group of non-beneficiaries. In Bahia, 702
                                                                                             2


households were surveyed for baseline information, and another 470 control households were sampled for
the purposes of a later comparison of impact. Control communities had not received any Bank-supported
project benefits, either from the existing or previous projects in Bahia (see FECAMP I).3

(b)      The second surveyed 300 households across 130 municipalities in the same states to assess
changes in living conditions among Program beneficiaries from 2000 to 2003.4 Questionnaires included
questions to determine household "profile" before and after receiving a Project-financed subproject. For
some questions (e.g., income, food security and health) a period 12 months before the investment was used,
with follow-up in the post-investment period between August 2003 and July 2004. For questions about
household living conditions, the period immediately before subproject execution is relevant, again following
up between August 2003 and July 2004. In some cases, i.e. households with subprojects concluded in
2004, the period was too short to register income effects (see FECAMP II).

(c)      The third (case) study comprised surveys of 422 rural households in Bahia (Ceará and Pernambuco



                                                      - 4 -

were similarly surveyed), of which 244 had received infrastructuire investments, 150 had received
productive investments, and 28 households had benefited from social investments, asking beneficiaries for
their opinions about the effects of their subprojects on their daily lives (see FECAMP III). 5




Objective ­ Improving wellbeing and incomes of the rural poor through better access to basic social and
economic infrastructure and services and support for productive activities, using community-driven
development (CDD) techniques.

The Project met this objective by financing around 2,930 community investments in basic infrastructure,
productive and social facilities, established as the priority of about 2,900 community associations and
debated/approved for financing by 326 project-created, participatory Municipal Councils. The largest
aggregate investments were: (i) water supply comprising 813 diverse subprojects including simple systems
with household connection, small-scale reservoirs, domestic cisterns and wells; (ii) 802 productive
investments included tractors/equipment, manioc mills and agricultural processing equipment; (iii) 501
investments in household sanitation systems; (iv) 336 solar energy and 183 electricity subprojects; and, (v)
168 small-scale bridges and local access roads. FECAMP II surveys of 422 households show about 95%
of all families interviewed stating that Project-financed productive and infrastructures investments were
good for their community, 80% said they had improved family life and 83% said that the investments had
further united the community. The community approval rating was a striking 100% for rural
electrification, water cisterns, sanitation improvements, small-scale agro-industries, tractors and marketing
modules.

Water supply for human consumption was a primary community demand. Families interviewed by
FECAMP II and III were virtually unanimous on its benefits: normal access to a clean, safe water source;
improved household wellbeing; reduced time spent fetching water from often distant locations; and reduced
incidence of chronic gastric and other illnesses in families. Secondary effects mentioned include: ability to
construct household sanitation and bathing facilities with visible effects on health, hygiene and comfort;
increased value of the house/property (also cited for small-scale reservoirs and electricity). Small-scale
reservoir investments created some 18 million cubic meters of accumulated water (dispersed state-wide),
with the following results: 37% reduction in time spent collecting water; better water quality in 37% of
households; increased food consumption in 12% of households; and increased property value in 62% of
households. Among many positive ratings, FECAMP III found high beneficiary satisfaction with basic
water supply systems and household water cisterns: 92% and 100% respectively, felt the investment
benefited the community; 67% and 100% respectively, said it helped unite the community. Household
cisterns registered especially high satisfaction levels in most categories.

Water supply also showed positive productive effects - albeit early and evolving - as indicated by
FECAMP II surveys, including: animal husbandry (7% of households surveyed), crops in areas of greater
water access (50%), small-scale irrigation (50%), small-scale fish-farming (37% of households). Water
supply was also an important factor in a reported 25% increase in the average herd size of households
surveyed. Some 25% and 50% respectively of FECAMP III respondents said basic water supply and
household cisterns had helped increase income, even though such investments are normally less likely to
have direct income effects. Of major significance, FECAMP II found that the need for trucked, tanked
water (carro pipasupplied by the municipality and/or the State Government at significant fiscal cost, to dry
or drought-stricken areas of Northeast states) was virtually eliminated for surveyed communities which had
received a water supply subproject.

Household sanitation reduces contamination from infectious and parasitic diseases. In 2,000, 56% of a



                                                      - 5 -

sample of households surveyed by CAR pre-Project to determine levels of basic infrastructure, lacked
sanitation facilities. By 2003, re-survey showed this percentage had already fallen to 36% as a result of the
Project. Sanitation facilities are both an incentive and a mechanism for better hygiene practices, improving
overall family health, helping maintain a healthy physical environment, and contributing to the general
wellbeing and development of the community. Bank missions recommended automatically linking
conventional water supply investments with complementary residential sanitation investments to break the
cycle of disease associated with water quality and hygiene conditions, and this was adopted. FECAMP III
registered 100% agreement that sanitation investments improved physical comfort, hygiene habits and
family life, 50% and 63% said dysentery and parasitic infections had decreased, respectively, while 88%
said property value had increased from installing such facilities.

Solar energy investments (an appropriate technology when hook-up to the main grid is problematic in more
remote, isolated communities), comprising some 16,000 modules installed in homes, community halls and
school buildings and professional training for their operation and maintenance, benefited around 71,000
people in 306 communities, generating significant improvements to family and community life. FECAMP
III, across all three subject states, found quality of life improved for 67% of households, comfort increased
in 60%, and 65% of respondents agreed that the investment increased their access to news concerning
national events. Community members commented on their sense of reduced "distance" between the rural
and urban and the difference between being ignorant and having information about events and issues. They
also noted how larger, community modules installed in local school buildings were increasing community
integration, permitting television, video cassette and parabolic antennas, and access to distance education
and other benefits.

Installation of 183 rural electricity investments benefiting 4,140 families is powering homes, schools,
streets, small businesses/shops, agro-processing units and pumps. Night school and literacy classes, food
and medicine conservation, improved productivity from small-scale irrigation and processing systems, and
access to information are common benefits of such investments. FECAMP II found quality of life
improvements for 76% of respondents, 29% reported increased food consumption, household comfort
improved for 63%, and 84% said access to national news/events increased. The effects of rural
electrification are also registered in FECAMP III which showed 20% of respondents reporting increased
income, 90% with increased property values, 100% with residential lighting, and 30% reporting increased
use of domestic appliances.

Productive subprojects for employment and income generation were a comparatively high proportion of the
total in Bahia, comprising mainly agricultural mechanization (tractors and equipment), small-scale
agro-industries (grains, manioc and fruit processing), irrigated agriculture, fish farming and marketing
facilities. Tractor investments are highly valued by communities and have major direct and indirect
benefits/impact. CAR estimates that 588 tractors benefited directly around 140 families per tractor or a
total of 84,000 families, created an additional 40 jobs/tractor and brought, at a conservative estimate, an
additional 17,000 ha of agricultural land into production. Some 62% FECAMP II respondents said their
tractor had increased agricultural production, 69% had reduced time spent on labor-intensive agricultural
activities, while 54% noted a greater number of crops per year and the creation of new productive activities
for the family.

Virtually 100% of families benefiting from small-scale agro-industries told FECAMP that they were now
processing materials and products previously discarded, and that the variety of food available had increased
along with overall food consumption; product available for sale had risen and its quality was better; 66%
said agricultural production for family consumption and sale had risen, as had family income and property
value.


                                                        - 6 -

Objective ­ Increasing the social capital of rural communities to organize collectively to meet their own
needs.

This objective was achieved. Most Northeast rural communities have significant, established levels of
social capital and thus the Program's participatory mechanisms are not starting from scratch. Among the
core challenges, as defined by a decade of research/fieldwork in the impact of these CDD projects on social
capital formation, is to build community trust in the state. Working on the premise that the Northeast
Program employs the same institutional arrangements and project design, and targets a comparatively
homogeneous cohort of rural poor with similar socio-economic characteristics and deficits region-wide,
experience shows that social capital accumulation is both a benefit per se and an element in the success of
rural CDD initiatives seeking poverty reduction. Household surveys and field observation reveal that over
two-thirds of beneficiaries agree that subproject execution helped unify the community and increased
participation in the community association (Costa and Rizvi, 2003).6      Community mobilization has been
rising in the Northeast region since the late 1980s and especially the 1990s coinciding with reformulation of
the Northeast Rural Development Program in 1993 into a participatory mechanism (Van Zyl, 2000; Costa
and Rizvi, 2003). Existing traditional solidarity and cooperation networks at the community level provide
a foundation which is strengthened by the CDD approach pursued under this program. The Program helps
to erode local, "clientilistic" relationships and forges a new dynamic horizontally, by building ties among
community associations, and vertically, between the rural poor and the state (Costa and Rizvi, 2003).

The Program has been instrumental in the formation of a dense network of community associations as
evidenced by the number of families joining and participating in organized civil society, the intensity of this
participation, and the increasing number of such associations representing the rural poor in local policy
dialogue. In Bahia by Closing, just under 3,000 associations had been established as a direct response to
the Project, and an equal number of communities had gone through preliminary mobilization activities
positioning them to conceive, discuss and submit a proposal whether that proposal was ultimately
processed under the Bank-supported project or outside, by another program. This change in structural
social capital occurs more intensively in communities which have implemented subprojects under the
Northeast Program; the attainment of these immediate concrete benefits is indispensable to maintaining the
organizational goals of the community association beyond subproject implementation. FECAMP (2003)7
and Costa and Rizvi (2003) also evaluated the legitimacy of these associations and observed a
unidirectional transformation in that, over time, these representative bodies are successful in significantly
reducing intended manipulation by local, traditional political elites and strengthening their sense of civic
duty. When compared with community associations without subprojects, associations benefited by the
Program are more capable of: (i) responding to communal demands; (ii) resolving internal conflicts; (iii)
effectively advocating for their membership; (iv) mobilizing financial and human resources; and (v) solving
local problems for the community.

FECAMP II, studying Project-related social capital formation in Bahia, Ceará and Pernambuco measured
its existence/increase based on beneficiary participation in collective organizations, participation in
community works and events, participation in meetings, and perceived functioning of the association and
impact of the subproject. Data presented in this instance relate to a sub-sample of subprojects with a
longer maturation period than the year allowed for most other data. Not surprisingly, heads of household in
communities benefited with a productive investment had higher levels of participation in community
activities, suggesting an important relationship between incentives and social capital. In general,
participation as a member of the association or similar organization changed little in the period ­ a majority
declared themselves members of the association both before the subproject and after. About 74% became



                                                       - 7 -

members more than 12 months before subproject execution and another 24% had joined much closer to the
subproject execution period. About 70% overall said they had participated directly in defining/selecting the
investment; 73% felt they were well-informed on the subjects occupying their association; 77% felt the
association helped advance community interests; and 95% said the association brought benefits to
members. (It should be noted. in the case of Bahia, that throughout 2003 and into early 2004, covering the
period of FECAMP's field data collection, a significant portion of municipalities were either still PAC (the
least participatory delivery mechanism) or had their FUMAC Council being re-structured and hence were
either temporarily operating through PAC, and/or had FUMAC Councils in process of formation).

Objective ­ enhancing local governance by greater citizen participation and transparency in
decision-making, through the creation and strengthening of community associations and Municipal
Councils.

CAR put a major effort into creating, stabilizing, training and increasing the capacity and transparency of
participatory FUMAC Municipal Councils to assume a wider range of activities and responsibilities. As
noted elsewhere, new CAR management initiated an intensive review of existing Municipal Councils, acting
immediately to mandate that the FUMAC Council President be elected by a majority of Council board
members rather than be a position commonly held by the Mayor or a representative of the municipal
government. Other changes included, most importantly, the restructuring of many Councils to ensure
uniform operational structure and procedures, and to determine other forms of support that individual
Councils might need to further boost capacity, especially given the planned expansion of Council
responsibilities to include integration with complementary programs (see below). CAR also supported the
mobilization and strengthening of about 3,000 community associations, in many cases (as is common in the
Northeast) on the foundations of an existing association, while an equal number were also in condition to
participate, with proposals prepared (see objective above). The institutional structure developed under the
CDD methodology is changing local governance in Bahia, importantly because evolving social capital is
altering both horizontal and vertical relationships between poor communities and with local and state
authorities. Especially noteworthy is the participation of women in the associations ­ about 30% of all
association members are women and some 486 associations are headed by women, as are an increasing
number of Municipal Councils. The underpinnings of these changes are described in the objective above.

Objective ­ Fostering closer integration of development policies, programs and projects at the local
level, by assisting Municipal Councils to extend their role in seeking funding, priority-setting and
decision-making over resource allocation.

To integrate diverse programs with similar objectives and increase the impact of public poverty reduction
efforts in the poorest regions, the new State Government launched a series of innovative and important
partnerships with state entities and the Bank Project known as the Projetos Especiais (Special Projects -
SP), concentrating actions in pre-defined areas or "polos" with high concentrations of severe poverty.    8


Through the integration and/or convergence of diverse programs and sources of funding to attend specific
objectives, the State's objective was to scale up and increase the "visibility" and intensity of rural poverty
efforts, thereby improving quality of life, increasing agricultural production and raising incomes. CAR,
through the Bank-supported Project, and acting jointly with the State Secretariat of Agriculture and the
Bahia Company for Agro-Livestock Development (EBDA) became a partner in the implementation of six
of these programs/projects.

After intense discussions, the Bank and State agreed that the SP would adopt the Project's participatory
mechanisms, using the community associations and participatory FUMAC Councils as the organizational



                                                     - 8 -

fulcrum. Negotiated rules of the game included: (i) subprojects should serve legitimate needs of the poorest
communities acting through their legal associations and proposals must demonstrate viability and
sustainability including environmental; (ii) once completed, all investments would be operated and
maintained by beneficiary associations and not by government; (iii) all projects/subprojects and their
component activities would be discussed openly in the participatory Municipal Councils; (iv) investments
of greater complexity/cost, once presented to/discussed in the Councils, would be executed by the related
agency in collaboration with the beneficiary community association, and formally transferred to that
community association upon completion; (v) all investments of lesser complexity and lower value (under
US$50,000) would be executed by the beneficiary community strictly in accordance with standard Project
practices; and (vi) management of Loan funds would remain with CAR as the contracted coordinator.
By integrating with the SP, the Project successfully piloted the expansion/application of participatory
methodologies to other programs, achieving in the process the convergence of complementary funding for
the Project's targeted beneficiaries. The SP were both participatory and decentralized - with the
associations acting as executors and the Councils as integration "facilitators" - and consistent with the
State's Multi-Year Strategy and HDI priorities, studies done by the incoming government, and policy
decisions regarding appropriate actions for severely depressed rural areas. By Closing, SP pilot activities
had benefited around 36,000 exceptionally poor families (180,000 people) with Project-funded investments
contributing R$48.6 million (about US$17.0 million) to a total investment of about R$91.0 million or an
approximate 50/50 cost-sharing ratio. Based on the consensus that this collaboration worked well and has
major potential, the Project-SP relationship will be significantly expanded under the upcoming Phase II
Project, mainstreaming the pilot by targeting 360,000 families through 2008, with funding from the
newly-created State Fund for Poverty Reduction (SECOMP) and other sources, and deployed through the
planning, implementation and monitoring role of the FUMAC Municipal Councils and member
associations, in a ratio of around US$20 from other programs for each US$1 of Project funds. Formal
evaluation of the SP experience is planned within 18 months of Phase II Effectiveness. The Special
Programs are outlined below.

Cabra Forte: designed to improve the lives/livelihoods of small-scale goats/sheep producers by ensuring
sufficient water for animal consumption through secure water points, combined with activities supporting
genetic improvement of herds, technical assistance, credit and marketing support. The project covers 17
municipalities in semi-arid areas, grouped into three development "poles" centred in Jaguarirí, Remanso
and Conceição de Coité, traditional goat-producing areas. Within Cabra Forte, the Project financed
7,700> residential cisterns and 41 small-scale reservoirs benefiting 12,170> families with a total Project
investment of R$12.3 million (about US$4.5 million).

Terra Fertil: covered 20 municipalities in the Irecê micro-region. Contracts signed in 2003 and 2004
resulted in the construction of 15 small-scale reservoirs, with commitments of Project resources totaling
R$2.2 million (about US$730,000).

Irrigação da Bacia Sedimentar de Tucano: longer-term objective is to create 3,000 ha of irrigated crops in
20 modules of 150 ha each. An initial 100 families were selected and trained, provided with business and
marketing plans, and acquired equipment to implement an irrigated agriculture module of 150 ha in Tucano
Municipality, divided into 100 lots of 1.5 ha, with four associations each of 25 families. Standard-design
houses were also provided, valued at R$1.8 million (about US$655,000) along with Project-funded training
and equipment. While at Closing this venture was still at an early stage of productive development, the
outlook is positive given the overall approach, and the technical and organizational attention focused on
beneficiary associations.




                                                     - 9 -

Agricultural Revitalization for Northeast Bahia: increasing agricultural production through better
technology, thus raising the incomes of targeted small producers. Some 166 poor communities acquired
tractors and equipment valued at some R$11.9 million (about US$4.3 million), benefiting directly 4,150
families in 22 municipalities. Targeted beneficiaries were small-scale farmers with 2-10 ha of reasonably
good land growing rain-fed, subsistence crops (beans, manioc and corn). Investments in tractors and
equipment were complemented by seed banks, pesticides and fertilizers financed through partnership
arrangements. Training was provided for O&M, soil conservation and management, and tractor operation.
Subprojects approved received prior legitimization within and were voted on by, the respective FUMAC
Council, in the normal Project manner. Bank field surveys/assessment of this particular SP showed that the
acquisition of 166 tractors, seed distribution and credit resulted in an 80% increase in cultivated area, 30%
increase in grain productivity and a 50% increase in labor productivity.

Viver Melhor Rural: program was executed in partnership with the State Secretariats of Education (SEC),
Housing (SESAB), Environment and Water Resources (SEMARH) and Combating Poverty and Social
Inequality, and targeted 80 municipalities with HDI <0.300. In its 18 month implementation period, and
with complementary Project resources, this program provided housing and sanitation for some 2,680
dwellings, implemented 29 water supply systems serving 3,273 households and developed six income
generating productive subprojects valued at some R$16.7 million (about US$6.1 million), benefiting 6,700
families in 21 municipalities.

Luz para Todos: coordinated by the Federal Ministry of Mines and Energy and operated with participation
of Eletrobrás, State Governments and electricity distribution concession companies. Through the
Bank-supported Project, this program financed 179 rural electrification subprojects involving investments
of some R$3.7 million (about US$1.35 million), processed through the Project's community associations
and FUMAC Councils.

Project Participation in Special Projects (R$ million)

                                                     Investments (R$ million)
      Special Project                       Project                          Other Sources
                                    Pilot       Phase II Project         Pilot      Phase II Project
1. Cabra Forte                      12.3               24.4              12.0             152.6
2. Terra Fértil                      2.2               2.5               19.8              12.4
3. Viver Melhor Rural               16.7               59.4               0.0              19.3
4. Irrigação Tucano                  1.8               13.8               2.3              40.5
5. Revitalização NE Bahia           11.9               0.0                1.1               0.0
6. Luz para Todos                    3.7               0.0               11.1            1,719.7
Total:                              48.6              100.1              46.5             1,944.5




4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Community Subprojects (final cost US$69.9 million, 92% of total project cost)
Rated Satisfactory

The Project financed over 2,927 community investments, 84% of the targeted 3,500, at an approximate
average cost of US$23,336, less than half the project ceiling of US$50,000 per subproject but a higher
average cost than the US$19,286 estimated at appraisal. The subproject shortfall is directly related to the



                                                     - 10 -

higher average cost and lack of funds available in other categories for reallocation to this component. Total
demand for subprojects was a massive 14,613 proposals, indicative of the immense need prevailing in rural
Bahia (and pressure prevailing to secure the Phase II operation, Bahia State Integrated Project, Loan
7327-BR); the Project met barely 20% of that demand. The percentages of subprojects demanded by type
correlates closely with percentages approved (see table):

 Subproject Type            Demand            % Total          Financed              % Total
                                              Demand                                Financed
Infrastructure               10,027              69               2,023                 70
Productive                    4,096              28                802                  27
Social                         490               3                 102                  3
Total:                       14,613             100               2,927                100
Source: CAR 2005


Broken down by CDD delivery mechanism, 29% of subprojects were delivered via PAC, 61% via FUMAC
and 10% via FUMAC-P. The Project rapidly expended funds allocated to PAC and re-allocated significant
funds from other categories to that category. The relatively active status of PAC overall derived from (i)
numbers of municipalities still without a FUMAC Council by end-2003 and consequent number of
subprojects being processed through PAC; (ii) effects of extensive restructuring of Councils in 2003 and
early 2004 when PAC was reinstated temporarily in many municipalities to permit their participation in the
Project; and (iii) significant number of municipalities lacking conditions to establish a FUMAC Council.
Bank missions alerted CAR to the potential for a significant portion of all municipalities to be excluded
from the Project if PAC funding was exhausted and they still lacked a FUMAC Council. CAR resolved the
situation by strengthening and accelerating its work to both create new and restructure existing Councils.

While water supply as a broad category represented the largest number of investments (813), agricultural
mechanization investments were both the dominant single type of investment overall and within the
productive category. Surging demand for tractors and equipment led the Bank task team and CAR to take
immediate steps to ensure that demand was legitimate and that adherence to the provisions in the
Operational Manual was rigorous. Community proposals were checked for legitimacy, viability and
sustainability including environmental. Due to the complexities of their use, CAR initiated a training
program exclusively for associations with tractor investments, applied criteria to further improve the
objective evaluation of feasibility and sustainability, and provided programmed O&M training to
beneficiary communities through SENAR (National Service for Rural Training). All associations benefited
with agricultural equipment were obliged to present a development plan for its use; samples of these plans
were vetted and approved by Bank supervision missions.

An independent analysis of a sample of such subprojects showed that at that time, most of the demand for
tractors was coming from two regions of the state ­ the Northeast and Paraguaçu ­ which have dense
concentrations of poor farmers. Both regions are located in the semi-arid zone and had already benefited
from infrastructure investments, Bank-supported and other, and had access to electricity and water supply.
Agricultural mechanization was seen as the most effective and straightforward way to launch productive
activity, bring additional agricultural land into production and to prepare land to coincide with rains.
Further, with land holdings ranging from 2-10 ha, such small producers are not an attractive market for
tractor rental firms, since demand is concentrated in a few months of the year, during the rainy season. The
Special Projects These projects focused on an 100-municipality area with exceptionally low HDI, addressing a
series of priorities identified from State Government-led studies of a particular area and embedded in the State's
Multi-Year Strategy. instituted by the State Government and aligned/integrated with the Bahia CDD project
(see Section 4), particularly the Program to Revitalize Agricultural Production in Northeast Bahia, also


                                                       - 11 -

created demand for tractors/equipment.

Tractor subprojects have repeatedly demonstrated multiple benefits from their use not only for strictly
agricultural tasks but also for transport of water and materials, and to power small-scale processing
machinery. They promote increased productivity of land and labor (most cultivation was previously
manual), and generate employment. Usage fees commonly fund not only tractor operation and maintenance,
but other benefits including community acquisition of additional land, livestock, construction of small
buildings/sheds, and salary to the tractor operator (see Annex 3). The principal subprojects financed,
families benefited and costs are listed in Annex 8 (Borrower ICR), Section 2.5.

Targeting: The Project was accurately targeted. FECAMP I results demonstrate that beneficiaries
conformed to the intended profile. FECAMP assessed the ex antestatus of beneficiary communities at the
time they entered the Project in their respective states, looking at education, housing, employment and place
of work, living conditions, household assets and income. Household surveys showed that 73% of
beneficiaries had mean monthly incomes of <half the monthly minimum salary of R$180. Another 25% of
beneficiaries exceeded this figure but in all cases, income was <R$300 per month. Given a median family
size of five, this translates into an ex anteper capita income of US$0.50 per day for close to three-fourths
of beneficiaries in the states studied. An assessment of household food security for these same beneficiaries
found that about 60% had insecure food access and faced periodic hunger. As appraised, the poorest 170
municipalities would receive R$59.5 million or around US$350,000 per municipality, and 237
municipalities would be allocated R$59.25 million or some US$250,000 per municipality. In practice,
investments in the poorest municipalities totaled some R$97.5 million (164% of target), representing just
under 50% of all resources applied to subprojects; the average per municipality was R$574,000 and the
remaining municipalities averaged R$422,000 each. The vast majority of subprojects benefited
municipalities with HDI-M of 0.417 or below. The Viver Melhor Rural program targeted 80
municipalities with exceptionally low HDI of <0.300 with actions in basic sanitation and income generation
(see Special Projects).

Inclusion ­ Indigenous Groups: The Project created the opportunity for indigenous communities to
identify and execute small-scale community investments through their own associations, consistent with
their unique socio-ethnic characteristics, as detailed below:

Table: Indigenous Groups - Investments Financed under RPRP, 2002-2005

                                         #                Total           Individuals
Type of Investment                                   Financing (US$)       Benefited

Tractor and Equipment                    6               182,709             550
Goat Herding                             2                39,065             258
Simplified Water Supply System           2                47,362             113
Manioc Mill                              2                17,567              45
Tube Well                                1                18,923             200
Animal Traction                          1                46,447             158
Cereal Kneading Machine                  1                8,107              158
Rural Electrification                    1                11,786              18
Small-scale Irrigation System            1                17,611              30
Forage and Corn Processing Equip.        1                4,733              155
Telephone Post                           1                23,209             109
Artesanal Fishing                        1                9,794               18
Concrete Bridge                          1                30,671              46
Total:                                                   457,984             1,858




                                                      - 12 -

The National Indian Foundation (FUNAI) estimates Bahia's total indigenous population at some 10,600
representing 10 identified ethnic groupings carrying out largely subsistence-based and extractive activities
on 20 terras indigenas. Types of investments by indigenous associations under the project were consistent
with their usual/main source of income. Communities also invested in electricity and water supply which
they knew would improve general quality of life and productive potential. Important lessons from this
experience include: (a) the favorable response of indigenous communities and their capacity to express their
needs, define their priorities, participate in all aspects of the project, organize rapidly, send representatives
to the Municipal Councils and manage their investments; (b) while FUNAI and other involved entities can
mobilize, provide guidance and deliver training to indigenous groups, they are not needed (and do not act)
as intermediaries between the indigenous and Project administration; (c) such partnerships with the state
can re-direct support to participation and integration, away from the assistance model; and (d) indigenous
communities take relatively easily to associative action due to the inherently communal nature of their
social organization and cultural practices.

Environment: CAR applied, systematically and routinely, a set of environmental safeguard practices and
procedures to subproject investments throughout Project implementation. No subproject agreement was
signed or funds transferred until the environmental viability of the subproject was determined, the
objectives being to: (i) ensure compliance with relevant State and Federal environmental laws and Bank
Safeguards; (ii) consolidate the application/integration of environmental standards in financed subprojects;
(iii) promote convergence between rural poverty reduction and the conservation and valuation of the
environment; and (iv) initiate linkages between conservation and protection activities and actual subproject
investments.

All subprojects were submitted for environmental analysis by CAR's Regional Offices, and those located in
Conservation Units were subject to licensing, authorized by the relevant managing agency as a condition of
approval by CAR. Management of Natural resources in CAR was handled by the Technical Committee for
Environmental Guarantee (CTGA) operating under a set of responsibilities and linked operationally to key
State and Federal environmental agencies. To minimize the bureaucratic complexities entailed in the
licensing process for poor communities trying to obtain an Environmental License, Water Rights License or
Exemption, and/or Vegetation Suppression License, CAR through CTGA and its Regional Offices assumed
responsibility for seeking the required licenses on behalf of communities, negotiated a simplified license and
exemption from licensing for subprojects determined to have modest impact.

CAR also launched a new subproject typology of "environmental subprojects" to support community
initiatives to preserve the environment. CAR, acting with CRA and other interested entities launched a
program of training in environmental education for FUMAC Councils, communities and association
leaders, and conducted information campaigns. Measures were also adopted by CAR to further strengthen
environmental aspects of the project: (i) identified forest nurseries geared to producing seedlings of native
species in diverse regions of the state, the goal being subprojects to reconstitute the Mata Ciliar around
margins of project-financed small reservoirs and dams; (ii) prepared a proposal to establish productive
subprojects and demonstration areas using renewable energy sources potentially available in the area; and
(iii) announced target communities for testing these subprojects and identified NGOs potentially able to
support communities in carrying out these investments.

B. Institutional Development (final cost US$3.19 million, 5% of total project cost)
Rated Satisfactory




                                                       - 13 -

This component financed training for beneficiary associations, the project participatory Municipal Councils
and CAR project technicians, in addition to technical assistance and information dissemination. Technical
assistance and specialized consultancies were financed for community associations and the Councils to
build and consolidate their understanding of participatory decision-making processes, and their role in
overseeing subproject execution. Special emphasis was given to the sustainability of community
investments, including specific forms of training supporting the operational phase of infrastructure and
productive facilities. Organization, participation and competence associated with managing an investment
effectively, were stressed. CAR organized 670 varied training events ­ courses, knowledge exchanges,
and thematic seminars for community leaders, project beneficiaries and CAR technicians. CAR also
coordinated the delivery of training to professionals within the State Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN)
under Project-funded activities known as modernization of the state which commenced under the previous
project and are continued under the new Phase II project. Main activities financed included training in
advanced elements of annual and longer-term planning, and the installation of information
technology/management systems to improve SEPLAN workflow and procedures. No details are yet
available on the impact of these activities.

Annual training programs stressed certain themes even while covering a range of issues, commencing in
2001 with training for CAR technicians at Project outset. CAR personnel also received training in local
sustainable development, strategic management and development and other areas as an ongoing part of
their work. In 2002 the emphasis shifted to the Councils and partnership-based project execution. Training
events in 2003 hinged on the operation and maintenance of agricultural equipment and on soil conservation
and management, in line with the substantial number of tractor/equipment subprojects financed.
Stone-working skills for water cistern construction were stressed in 2004, consistent with the State's push
for greater water security in rural areas, combined with a strong effort to link the Project to related agencies
under the Special Projects and other programs, e.g., Cabra Forteand Água e Cidadani which addressed the
severe water deficits typical of rural Bahia. Prior to closing in June 2005, training again turned to
municipalities with tractor investments (Northeast Bahia), consistent with the State's increasing emphasis
on grains production and the goals of the Special Project known as Northeast Bahia Agricultural
Revitalization.




Finally, CAR established a series of partnerships with public and private entities, seeking to leverage
technical and other support for the Project, integrate the Project locally to promote complementary
activities, and to diversify Project content conceptually and methodologically. Groups involved with CAR
under these arrangements included the Bahia Environmental Group ­ Gambá, National Service for Rural
Learning ­ SENAR, National Service for Industrial Learning ­ SENAI, the Brazilian Service for Support
to Micro and Small Enterprise - SEBRAE, and the NGO Winrock International.

 C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation (final cost US$3.77 million, 4.9% of total
project cost)
Rated Satisfactory

This component performed as expected, supporting project coordination and activities to monitor
performance and impact; incremental operating costs (excluding salaries) of CAR to further improve
supervision and strengthen project operations; upgrading of the project MIS; public information outreach to
disseminate understanding about Project objectives, benefits, rules and methodology; monthly, six-monthly
and annual reports on physical, financial and qualitative aspects of the Project; and the IICA/FECAMP
socio-economic profile study and socioeconomic evolution case study, both of which conducted in Bahia,


                                                     - 14 -

Ceará and Pernambuco. CAR conducted around 7,000 supervision visits to subprojects (visita previaand
other follow-up/oversight visits) and some 2,600 monitoring and training visits to Municipal Councils, the
latter vastly exceeding the targeted 160 due to the immense effort dedicated to restructuring, establishing
and/or training Councils from 2002 on.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Specific investments carried out under the Project were decided by communities in the course of Project
execution. The PAD provided an illustrative analysis of benefits achieved under the previous Northeast
Rural Poverty Alleviation Program as a whole, factoring in data from Bahia in all aspects of the analysis,
in lieu of a precise, ex ante estimation of cost effectiveness, economic rate of return and fiscal impact,
which was not feasible given the demand-driven nature of the project and thus lack of a priori knowledge
of how resources would be allocated. But it was assumed, correctly, that types of subproject investments
would be similar to those financed under previous and ongoing programs/projects both in Bahia and the
wider Northeast region.

Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability

The bulk of subproject investments under the Northeast Program have been infrastructure (72%) and this
held true for the Bahia Project (70%), with productive investments 27% and social investments 3%. Most
of these investments are core public services (water supply, electrification, sanitation) providing benefits
justifying their universal provision. Several elements of Project design help ensure that the CDD
mechanism is the least cost, best alternative for delivering small-scale, community infrastructure: (i)
demand driven investments tend to flow to the neediest. Targeting has repeatedly been shown as accurate
and separate FECAMP studies (2004) confirm this; (ii) community participation in the "filter" of the
Municipal Council ensures that the investment is the best alternative for the community and that resources
are following a legitimate priority; and (iii) the extensive use of standard designs and technical parameters
protects the communities from under and over-sizing of their subprojects and technical/quality problems,
ensures that least-cost solutions are employed and that search and information costs are low by providing
established patterns of initiating and completing investments. Delegation of subproject execution directly
to the community association generates significant cost savings relative to similar works executed by public
agencies, i.e. 30-50%. The Project Operational Manual requires direct, competitive contracting on all
subprojects; as a rule, three bids are solicited by the community and the least-cost bid is selected. Cost
savings through prudent acquisitions frequently enable benefits to be extended to additional beneficiaries
from the approved funding package. Operation and maintenance has been generally satisfactory with a
high proportion of associations paying user fees where appropriate or making other, regular arrangements.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Ex-post internal rates of return (IRR) were estimated for the most common types of productive subprojects
and exceeded on average, 30%. More recent IRR assessment done by CAR and specific to Bahia produced
results which, while lower, were consistent with these previous findings for the overall program.9 Analyses
assume constant benefits over the subproject life-cycle. Benefits are concentrated largely in the beneficiary
communities. Sensitivity analysis showed that these subprojects tend to be reasonably robust in regard to
decreased output and prices, and increased production costs. Benefit cost ratios are greater than 2.0 for the
main types of productive investments analyzed and are generally financially sustainable. While beneficiary
investments are financed with a one-time matching grant, they tend to be sustainable because cost recovery
through user fees is normally adequate to cover O&M and replacement of the original investments before
the end of their useful economic life (see Annex 3).




                                                      - 15 -

Fiscal Impact

Subprojects make a significant fiscal contribution through cost savings to state and municipal governments.
In most Northeast states including Bahia, investments in water supply eliminate the need for publicly
funded water trucks to supply communities both in time of drought and normally. Clean, reliable water
reduces public health costs and saves family time spent collecting water at distance. Cost savings also
derive from the community-driven design ­ savings from 30-50% have been repeatedly shown over
publicly-executed works of similar type. Direct impacts on revenue generation are small, but indirect
impact can be significant, i.e. through surging demand for electric appliances and other items following
investments in rural electrification, and increased collection of ICMS (sales tax) by municipalities.10

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Community Associations: Associations under the project are groups of rural people, usually from within a
single community but not necessarily comprising the entire community, who organize into legally
constituted civil associations. Some 2,590 associations were established, in part building on and
strengthening pre-existing bodies or creating an entity for the express purpose of accessing the project, a
reality of access to the Program. Associations received Project-funded technical assistance and training to
engage the subproject cycle entailing: identification, preparation, implementation, operation and
maintenance of subprojects, assisted by directly-contracted technical specialists, and by technical assistance
and training made available by Municipal Councils and CAR. CAR has instituted an innovative
competition "Association Number 10" (Associação Nota 10), to reward community associations which
show exceptional performance and advances in their capacity to manage the subproject cycle, represent
their communities and provide services. The competition is widely publicized and the selection process
involves the Municipal Councils, demonstrating in its own right, the significant autonomy and lively
involvement many Councils have in regard to the communities.

Municipal Councils: There was a significant devolution of FUMAC-P Councils to FUMAC in 2003, the
result of an evaluation by CAR of the performance of FUMAC-P (the most decentralized mechanism for
subproject delivery under the Northeast Program's CDD methodology) and the relative capacity of
FUMAC Councils. Conditions for establishing new FUMAC Councils were examined by the study ­
especially in municipalities with little tradition of associative action ­ as were the conditions for
restructuring Councils with weaker than anticipated performance. CAR concluded that new proposals
could just as effectively be attended under the FUMAC mechanism. CAR also analyzed the conditions for
establishing new FUMAC Municipal Councils, creating 52 new Councils as a result. Meanwhile, some 70
municipalities were judged to have insurmountable difficulties to establishing FUMAC Municipal Councils
and thus remained in the project under the PAC mechanism to avoid exclusion, accounting for the
significant reallocation of funds to the PAC Category.

CAR's work in establishing or restructuring Councils was preceded by training which explained Project
objectives and methodology, the role of the Council, importance of participatory definition of community
subprojects, management of community subprojects and the importance of forming local partnerships to
leverage support for the process. A recent study by CAR technicians showed that training in local
organization, the profile of municipal authorities and the commitment and competence of CAR personnel in
Regional Offices, has resulted in some 20% of FUMAC Councils having joint, integrated activities with
other Councils, expanding the range of issues discussed, and taking decisions going beyond the
Bank-supported Project. CAR views this as an embryonic version of Sustainable Local Development
Councils (SLDC) whose development in Bahia has attracted the attention of national and international
entities, an example being the Municipality of Ouçangas and more recently, of Conceição de Coité and


                                                       - 16 -

Barra do Choça, selected as examples of successful community-driven development and used as
demonstration "labs" for visiting authorities from Asia, India, Africa and the EU, and for groups visiting
the program prior to the Shanghai Poverty Conference in 2004.

Technical Unit: CAR is an experienced Technical Unit which has been administering and coordinating
rural and urban poverty programs for 22 years, including the Bank-supported Land-based Poverty
Alleviation Project (7037-BR). CAR continuously improves its performance and capacity, and training for
this purpose was financed for CAR technicians. CAR's capacity to engage in a series of important
partnerships to leverage greater support for the Project in the countryside, its capable handling of its
coordinating role under the Special Projects, its skilled operation of an advanced, best practice MIS, and its
persuasive advocacy for streamlining environmental licensing arrangements for several thousand
community associations thus keeping the Project on track, are all evidence of institutional sophistication.
However, in an important way, it is the day to day management of a large, evolving Program/project that,
even more than any specific training course, has impacted on CAR's institutional capacity.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
No significant factors of this type affected the Project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The only significant issue to arise and with potential to affect the project if left unresolved, involved
Environmental Permits, a State Government responsibility. Certain subproject types (basic rural water
supply systems, small dams/reservoirs and electrification subprojects) became subject to State
environmental licensing as a condition of implementation, posing a challenge to a large number of
communities given the relatively complex bureaucratic procedures required to obtain those permits, and the
associated out-of-pocket expenses. Field visits confirmed that communities, upon realizing the difficulties
associated with obtaining the permits, were already directing their subproject proposals to investments
which did not require them. Given the potential to disrupt the project and distort demand ­ water supply
and electrification being major, legitimate pressure-points in rural Bahia ­ Bank supervision staff and CAR
agreed with the State Secretariat of Planning on the need for alternative, streamlined procedures for
obtaining permits and facilitating Project execution of affected investments. CAR and the Bank worked
with the State Environmental Resources Center (CRA) to craft simplified procedures for small-scale
investments to obtain environmental licenses without in any way prejudicing the application of sound
environmental standards and practices to the Project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
CAR took decisive steps to reduce or avoid any slowdown of the Project as a result of policy-based
decisions affecting or with potential to affect the Project. For example: (i) as stated earlier CAR made an
important operational change in 2002, coinciding with a new State administration, whereby the position of
President of the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils would henceforth require in all cases, the vote of a
majority of Council members. This change entailed changing the statutes and restructuring of many
Councils, risking delayed project implementation in those municipalities. CAR authorized expanded use of
the PAC mechanism to ensure attendance to community demand in FUMAC Council municipalities
experiencing temporary difficulties adjusting to the new rules or with Councils being restructured. A
number of municipalities, including those attempting to form FUMAC Councils following these events,
were unable to resolve this issue and continued to participate via PAC, explaining its higher than intended
role in Bahia compared to other states in the Program; and (ii) to minimize the bureaucratic complexities
entailed in the licensing process for many poor communities trying to obtain state-mandated Environmental
Licenses, Water Rights Licenses or Exemptions, and Vegetation Suppression Licenses, CAR through its


                                                     - 17 -

Regional Offices and the CTGA assumed responsibility for obtaining the required licenses on behalf of
communities, and negotiated with State environmental agencies/authorities a simplified license and an
exemption from licensing for subprojects determined through analysis by the State to have modest
environmental impact.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project costs were estimated at US$75.0 million of which the Bank would finance US$54.35 million
(72.5%), the State Government US$13.95 million (18.6%) and beneficiary associations US$6.7 million
(9%) in cash or kind. As noted earlier, the Project was Phase I of an operation presented by Bahia to the
Federal Government and approved by the External Financing Committee (COFIEX) of the National
Treasury in 2000. Actual costs varied slightly, with total Project costs an estimated US$75.85 million, of
which the Bank financed US$54.35 million (71.7%), State Government US$14.59 million (19.2%) and
beneficiaries US$6.91 million (9.1%). The Loan was fully disbursed in 3.5 years. The Project financed
2,927 community investments, 84% of the targeted 3,500, at an approximate average cost of US$23,336,
less than half the project ceiling of US$50,000 per subproject but a higher average cost than the
US$19,286 estimated at appraisal. The subproject target shortfall is related directly to the higher average
cost per subproject and lack of funds available in other categories for reallocation to cover additional
subproject investments, despite high demand.

A reallocation of US$11.1 million in March 2004 shifted US$10.1 million from Category 1(b) FUMAC
Pilot Grants to Category 1(a) FUMAC Grants (US$1.2 million) and Category 1(c) PAC Grants (US$8.9
million); and US$1.0 million from Category 5 Unallocated to Category 1(a) FUMAC Grants. As noted in
5.3 above, CAR concluded after evaluating the FUMAC-P Councils that new community proposals could
equally effectively be attended under FUMAC, creating an additional 52 FUMAC Councils as a result.
Another 70 municipalities were unable to establish FUMAC Councils and participated as PAC, while a
further, significant cohort participated temporarily through PAC while their Councils were being
restructured, accounting for the significant reallocation to, and much greater that expected expenditure
under, Category 1(c).

Procurement:
All procurement of goods/works was conducted in accordance with Bank guidelines and within the CDD
context, and continued to perform smoothly and uneventfully, importantly because of CAR's long
familiarity with the program and experience with community-based procurement. Acquisition of mainly
goods and works under the community subproject component was handled directly by the community
association in all cases, and subject to at least three price quotations. Supervision missions vetted
procurement through random reviews of subprojects both in the field and by analysis of CAR documents.
CAR handled procurement of consultants to provide technical assistance to the communities and to support
its own activities/responsibilities, with satisfactory performance and outcomes. Further, the use of
standard subproject designs and unit costs, required by the Operational Manual, as well as providing
associations with basic information on how to proceed, simplified procurement, avoided under- or
over-sized subprojects, and made supervision and monitoring smoother. The community cost-sharing
requirement (minimum 10% of subproject cost) under these CDD projects correlates directly with and
incentivates, communities seeking competitive prices through three quotes, and fosters economy and
efficiency.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated Likely



                                                       - 18 -

Institutional: Delegation of responsibility and influence to local-level organizations and involving local
government supports decentralized resource allocation and social capital formation under this
program/project. Further, the strength and experience of the Project Technical Unit is a key ingredient in
the institutional sustainability of the methodology implanted in the field and its adoption by other, related
poverty programs in rural areas. Institutional sustainability is bolstered by the participatory governance
features of the program and increasingly by the scaling up and mainstreaming of the Councils as clearing
houses for integrating with and leveraging additional funds from Federal and State programs beyond the
Bank-supported Project. CAR also manages the Bank-supported Land-Based Poverty Alleviation Project
(7037-BR) which employs CDD mechanisms to deliver land and productive facilities to the same target
cohort of poor rural families. CAR focused major effort on strengthening the FUMAC Municipal Councils
especially in 2002 at Project outset - this included restructuring many ­ and again in 2005 prior to Closing,
in preparation for the follow-on Bahia State Integrated Project: Rural Development Project. In regard to
the community associations, FECAMP I (2004) found positive indications in Bahia for their sustainability:
among findings, 69% said the association represented an advance in representing their interests, 66% said
the association strengthened the community politically in obtaining benefits, and 73% disagreed with the
assertion that the association had not changed anything. Some 65% of heads of household participated
actively in the community association after subproject implementation, slightly higher than pre-Project.

Physical: When working with very poor communities, physical sustainability through good O&M practices
is an important project responsibility, cannot be assumed and must be addressed systematically as part of
the developmental process. Participation and cost-sharing by beneficiaries fosters a sense of the value of
the investment in both social and financial terms. The subproject discussion, ranking and approval process
in the project Municipal Councils also fosters awareness of long-term sustainability. Both the ICR and the
Borrower Report conclude that most communities are adhering to Project operation and maintenance
standards and CAR expended a major effort to ensure this. Diverse arrangements, depending on the nature
of the investment, indicate promising longer-term sustainability of Project investments.

In the case of basic water supply systems, CAR ensured that the vast majority (90%>) had direct
household connection with hydrometer, enabling measurement and accurate charges to the consumer by the
state/local water company. For household cisterns, O&M is a family responsibility for which simple
training is delivered. Cisterns are not an ideal solution and have their limitations including water storage
capacity in the relatively short, concentrated rainy season. They are implemented only in locales which
lack other alternatives, either underground or surface. Cisterns are a highly-valued investment, as borne
out by FECAMP findings, and families understand the stakes in their upkeep. For the maintenance of
small-scale dams/reservoirs, the cooperative involvement of municipal authorities is not unusual, and/or
families contribute to a reserve fund for periodic cleaning, repair of boundaries and other tasks. Generally,
the operational demands and cost of O&M of this type of investment are modest.

Tractors represented 588 investments and were a priority in all regions of the state. CAR surveyed
beneficiaries/users and found that association members and non-members were paying fees averaging
R$20-25 and R$30-40/hour respectively, plus fuel costs, for use of the tractor - somewhat below the
relatively high market rate for rental of such equipment (for short periods only, during the rainy season).
The tractor operator is trained and earns an average R$450-600 for the season; tractors average some
2,000 hours' use per year. CAR invested intensive efforts in 2003 (93% of the training budget) and 2005
(54% of training budget) to ensure proper O&M by beneficiary communities of tractors and equipment,
given their importance for income generation.

In the case of manioc mills and other small-scale agro-processing facilities, payment of user fees to the
association in product ­ averaging 10%-15% of flour produced for members and 15%-20% for


                                                     - 19 -

non-members - covers repairs, electricity costs, replacement of parts, payment of the mill operator (about
R$300/month) and other maintenance tasks. Maintenance of electrification subprojects is passed to the
state energy company (COELBA), which charges fees for use in the normal manner. FECAMP II recorded
some 80% of surveyed beneficiaries reporting that they had no problems paying their energy bill while
another 10% reported only occasional difficulties. Maintenance of small bridges is generally handled by
municipal authorities, while household solar energy panels are either maintained by the association through
payment of fees into a fund or are maintained individually by families, the main component being
replacement of the battery every two years.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
For all Northeast CDD projects, the transition to regular operations is not an end-of-project matter but a
continuous devolution of responsibility for subproject operation and sustainability to the formal owners of
the investment - legally and technically - the community associations. The Operational Manual establishes
rules and procedures for this hand-over and normalization phase. In the case of electric power investments,
for obvious reasons, the state and/or local power companies assume responsibility for long-term O&M as
described above. The operational phase of the Special Projects, as agreed with the State, followed similar
arrangements.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal is rated Satisfactory. This Project
was the second since the full-scale "pilot" Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Project
(1993-1995), and its design fully reflected accumulated lessons and experience. The preparation process
was marked by openness to further innovation, a hallmark of the Northeast CDD program since inception.
The continuity of personnel in CAR and in the Bank team permitted a candid, effective and efficient
preparation trajectory and partnership.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is rated Satisfactory. About 48 staff weeks were expended on supervision (there was no
estimate at appraisal), reflecting primarily the short execution period of 3.5 years, without extension.
Supervision was enhanced by the following: (i) proximity of the Bank's Recife Office to the Project - the
decentralized structure of Bank oversight is consistent with the nature and location of the Program; (ii)
experienced Team Leader, Task Manager and professional/administrative personnel with intimate
knowledge of the Northeast CDD mechanisms, their evolution and capacity; and (iii) close working
relationships developed with the State and sustained over several generations of similar projects. There
were seven formal supervision missions, and six informal follow-up and/or update visits. Project staff also
accompanied visits by foreign authorities to the Project, fieldwork for the FECAMP studies, and
preparation of the Shanghai Conference-related field program in Bahia. As is customary in all
participating states, supervision missions were supplied with a MIS-based briefing document showing
updated performance indicators and any apparent issues for follow-up, plus a MIS-generated random
sample of municipalities for field visits. The Project was correctly rated Satisfactory for Development
Objectives and Implementation Progress throughout.

Supervision was supported by an exceptionally good Management Information System (MIS), technically
overhauled/upgraded by CAR with Bank assistance, to serve the Project. The MIS permitted Project
monitoring online in real time - starting with data input directly in the field by the 17 Regional Offices -
rated community subprojects based on execution and operational status, and were the basis for monthly
progress reports to the Bank. Direct supervision and contact with CAR indicated no outstanding issues



                                                     - 20 -

requiring a re-tooling of the Project or in-depth discussion with the State to adopt corrective measures. The
Project's methodological continuity, essential role in scaling up the reach/coverage of the Project in a large
state, and consensus between CAR and the Bank team that the project was progressing well, indicated that
it could continue to completion without change. FECAMP was finishing its studies in Bahia and was
expected to provide comprehensive diagnostic information, including to support a planned Phase II
operation. While the Loan Agreement did not require a Mid-Term Review (MTR), it had been assumed
initially that an MTR would occur. However, for the reasons summarized, it was decided not to proceed.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Rated Satisfactory

The Northeast rural poverty reduction program was selected for presentation as Best Practice in scaling up
CDD approaches, at the 2004 Shanghai Poverty Conference. The Bahia Project was an important
component of that success including by hosting visiting delegations of Bank managers and foreign
authorities interested in seeing Project field operations in advance of that conference.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated fully Satisfactory.           CAR is an experienced
Technical Unit and proceeded with the new project with the full support of its parent Secretariat of
Planning and the State Governor.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The State Government did not have a direct, day to day role in Project execution, except through its
counterpart funding/cost sharing responsibilities, which were satisfactory throughout, and indirectly
through the role of CAR. The intervention and support of the Governor on occasion, were very helpful to
the Project. The new State Government explicitly supported the Project due to its commitment to the
Federal Fome Zero (Zero Hunger) and Sede Zero (Zero Thirst) programs, and this was evident in the
quality of Project execution and the public/visible role of the Governor in participating in beneficiary
community events, attending signing ceremonies and other actions. The Government early on initiated a
vigorous dialogue on devising better strategies for promoting integration and complementary actions under
this, and other Bank projects, with other public poverty reduction policies/programs. The Bank agreed with
Government that the scope of Project options for reducing poverty were broad and went well beyond
agriculture. The Project's integration with the Special Projects was the logical outcome of this stance and
associated dialogue.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The State Company for Development and Regional Action (CAR) coordinated the Project, supported by 17
Regional Offices (established in the late 1990s) to which significant autonomy and responsibility are
delegated. CAR is a long-established and experienced unit with 291 staff of which 156 are higher level
professionals specialized in diverse disciplines and with substantial field experience. CAR's legal status
enables it to operate with simple, flexible procedures, speeding up project execution; coordination of the
Project absorbed about 80% of CAR's technical and operational capacity. By end-Project, CAR was
tending to delegate the supervision of subprojects and community associations to the Municipal Councils
and concentrate increasingly on oversight of the Councils themselves, as well as general project
coordination and promotion. The latter included continuous information campaigns, project reporting,
impact evaluation, MIS updating and the design and provision of tailored training modules for the
Municipal Councils and community associations.




                                                      - 21 -

The Regional Offices oversee an average 18 municipalities, each with four technical staff connected online
to Headquarters in Salvador. The size of Bahia - 564,000 km2 exceeding the combined area of five other
Northeast states - mandates a strong regional presence for successful Project execution. Their monitoring
of the subprojects and Councils and especially their use of the upgraded Management Information System
(MIS) as a real time working tool for daily managerial control and project-related activities, constitutes
best practice meriting dissemination to other projects/regions.

Following State elections in 2002, the Executive Director of CAR and key senior managers were replaced
but beyond a brief settling in period, during which the new group reviewed existing arrangements, launched
new approaches including the Special Projects and integration, shifted the emphasis of investments towards
productive activities, and reviewed and restructured the FUMAC Councils. With the support of a largely
stable, experienced technical and administrative staff, no adverse impact on the Project was registered.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Rated Satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

The formative lessons of the Northeast CDD program since 1993 are numerous, have been repeatedly
stated and are not reiterated here. More selectively, the following are important lessons from this Project,
validated by similar experiences in other participating states:

Effective poverty targeting combines self-selection by beneficiaries with data-based discrimination
among cohorts of rural poor communities to target the project geographically and allocate project funds
strategically by poverty level: The ex-ante socio-economic profile of project beneficiaries indicates that
40% overall are illiterate, 50% have insecure access to basic food and a majority have incomes below the
poverty line. Overall, about three fourths of project beneficiaries have initial incomes equivalent to
<US$1.00 per day. Further, the Project was able to successfully target separate cohorts of municipalities
defined by relative HDI-M with differentiated financing significantly exceeding appraisal estimates, per
municipality.

Greater alignment of community investments with HDI is both rational and efficient: Bahia's goal is to
increase HDI from 0.688 to the median HDI for Brazil (0.766) by 2020 which serves as a unifying goal for
public investment especially in poverty reduction. This implies the pragmatic alignment of
community-driven demand with the State's strategic plans and vision - as occurred under the Special
Projects - preserving participatory mechanisms for engaging and empowering poor communities, ensuring
legitimacy and transparency, and maximizing opportunities for the participatory expression of
community/local priorities. The follow-on project will amplify the Special projects, and put greater
emphasis on income-generation, health and sanitation, and education. Through information dissemination
and training to build broad understanding - including by the Councils and community associations - of the
HDI, its components and the best types of investments to contribute to its increase.

CDD promotes social capital formation: The demand-driven design of the Project helps improve local
governance by giving poor rural communities a unique set of experiences in collective action,
priority-setting, decision-making, financial management, and subproject operation and maintenance. Social
capital under this and similar projects is both a benefit in its own right and an element in the success of
community-driven poverty reduction. Tangible benefits from subproject investments strengthen collective
capacity, sense of citizenship, and raise the bar for local government accountability.




                                                      - 22 -

Scaling up the Program's impact on rural incomes through productive investments remains a major
challenge: Demand from communities for employment and income-generating investments is high and there
is an important challenge in scaling up the productive component of this program/project to the same extent
as has been achieved program-wide with infrastructure and social capital. Productive investments entail
complex issues of technical, financial and locational viability and sustainability. One-time matching
grants for productive investments make sense under the following conditions: services cover a majority of
community members; use is regulated by strict operational guidelines; O&M is assured through payment of
user fees and training and awareness-building; impact criteria for HDI and environment are met; and,
provision for technical assistance is built in and followed up. Such investments require rigorous selection,
preparation, technical assistance and supervision, and linkage to a graduation strategy which ultimately
normalizes their relationship with markets and inputs.

A strategic approach which scales up use of participatory methodologies to improve targeting, delivery
and efficiency of non-project resources while increasing the overall amount of financing applied to
complementary investments, has the potential to increase poverty impact: Further, early lessons from the
Bahia experience with the Special Projects suggest that operational measures can promote collaboration
and compatibility - especially bureaucratic and procedural - between integrating programs/agencies and the
Bank-supported participatory, decentralized project/program. This can be fostered through a variety of
actions including close dialogue with all involved parties combined with field oversight to ensure that the
philosophy, practices and institutions of the CDD projects/program are well understood and implemented
on the ground.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower provided the following comments on the draft Bank Implementation Completion Report:




                                                      - 23 -

- 24 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA

10. Additional Information

Footnotes:

1. The United Nations Human Development Index (HDI) is a summary measure of three dimensions of the
human development concept: living a long and healthy life, obtaining an education and having a decent
standard of living. It combined measures of life expectancy, school enrollment, literacy and income and is
closely linked to the Millennium Development Goals (MDG).

2. Projetos Renascer (PE), Produzir (BA) e São Jose (CE) - Perfil Socioeconômico da População
Beneficiaria ­ Fase II, Relatório de Consultoria Técnica, FECAMP 2004.

3. In each municipality, 3 beneficiary and 2 control communities were interviewed. The control
communities were not intended for analysis in the FECAMP entry profile, but for an intended, later



                                                   - 25 -

comparison of impact.

4. Projetos Renascer (PE), Produzir (BA) e São Jose (CE): Evolução do Perfil Socioeconômico dos
Beneficiários e Efeitos Imediatos dos Projetos, Relatório de Consultoria Técnica, FECAMP 2004.

5. Projeto Produzir ­ Funcionamento e Resultados Imediatos: Estado da Bahia - Relatório de Consultoria
Técnica, FECAMP, 2005. surveyed 422 households in Bahia Similar case studies were done in Ceará and
Pernambuco.

6. Andrea Ryan Rizvi, Alberto Costa, "Can community-driven infrastructure programs contribute to social
capital? Findings from the rural Northeast of Brazil", Social Capital Task Team Seminar Series,
Washington DC, May 2003.

7. Impact Assessment of the Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Project (Cedula da Terra), FECAMP,
2003.

8. Tucano Sedimentary Basin Irrigation Project; Strong Goats Project (Cabra Forte); Project for the
Revitalization of Agriculture in Northeast Bahia; Fertile Lands Project (Terra Fertil); Better Rural Life
Program (Viver Melhor Rural) and separately, the Federal Government's massive Light for All Program
(Luz para Todos). Sources of funding included: SECOMP (State Poverty Fund sourced from 1% levy on
state oil production, managed by the Secretariat for Combating Poverty); PRONAF (National Family
Agriculture Program); Luz do Campo and the Bank-supported Project.

9. Programa Produzir II ­ 2a Etapa: Análise Custos-Benefícios, SEPLAN, July 2004.

10. Calculations by the State Technical Unit in Maranhão, a participating CDD state, projected the
purchase of some 60,000 diverse domestic appliances (refrigerators, televisions, washing machines, electric
motors and sound systems) from 990 subproject investments in rural electrification.

11. See text concerning Project Team's decision concerning Mid-Term Review.




                                                   - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

No Log Frame Matrix was prepared for this Project
Project Components and Actvities             Responsible Institution   Unit         Appraisal Est. Total
A. Community Subprojects

Subprojects implemented                       Beneficiary Associations     No                 3500        2927
- Infrastructure                                                           No                 2450        2023
- Productive                                                               No                   700        802
- Social                                                                   No                   350        102
Beneficiaries                                     PCU, Councils
- Total families                                                          `000                  250        257
- Total people                                                            `000                1100        1285
Community associations benefited                  PCU, Councils            No                 1850        2589
Municipal Councils created
- FUMAC                                                PCU                 No                    40        292
- FUMAC-P                                              PCU                 No                    40         34
B. Institutional Development
Prep. annual program of TA and Training           PCU, Councils
(i) PCU                                                                    No                     4          4
(ii) Municipal Councils                                                    No                    80        326
Community mobilization                            PCU, Councils
- Beneficiaries                                                         Seminars                 96        590
- Local leaders                                                            No                   600       6520
No. training courses offered to:
- Beneficiary associations                                                 No                    60       1157
- All Municipal Councils                        FUMAC, FUMAC-P             No                   160        326
- FUMAC Municipal Councils                                                 No                    80        292
- PCU Staff                                                                No                   140         80
Technical Assistance provided
- Subproject implementation (Tech. Transfer)      PCU, Councils         Subprojects           3500        2927
- to Municipal Councils                                PCU              Contracts                80         62
C. Project Administration, Supervision,
Monitoring and Evaluation
Supervision
- Subprojects                                     PCU, Councils          No visits            7000       17562
- Municipal Councils                                   PCU               No visits              160       2608
Annual Operating Plans (POA)
- Preparation of POA for FUMAC                  FUMAC Councils             No                    80        326
- Preparation of Project POA                           PCU                 No                     4          4
Standard designs
- Preparation                                          PCU                 No                     5         16
- Review and updating                                  PCU                 No                    20         42
Monitoring Reports (to Bank)
- Monthly Disb Summaries/MIS Update                    PCU                 No                    48         48
- Annual, semi-annual reports                          PCU                 No                    12         12
- External audits                                      PCU                 No                     4          4
Evaluation studies
- Physical Performance Reviews                         PCU                 No                     1          1
(i) Mid-term Reviews                                   PCU                 No                     1       NA11
- Impact evaluation                                    PCU
(i) Baseline FECAMP I                                  PCU                                        1          1

(ii) Final FECAMP II and III                           PCU                                        1           1

Source: PAD and CAR (2005)




                                                               - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

A. Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)
     Project Component        Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                US$ million              Estimate         Appraisal
                                                        US$ million           %
A. Community Subprojects of
which:
- FUMAC                            39.90                  44.30             111.0
- FUMAC-P                          20.00                   3.43              17.2
- PAC                               6.70                  22.25             332.0


Subtotal:                          66.60                   69.98            105.0


B. Institutional Development        3.90                   3.15              81.0
(TA and Training)


C. Administration, Monitoring       3.30                   2.72              82.0
and Evaluation


Total Baseline Cost                73.80                  75.85             102.8


Physical/Price Contingencies        1.20                    --                --


TOTAL:                             75.00                  75.85             101.0



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)
(a) Appraisal Estimate
    Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method**                  Total Cost
                              NCB       Local         Direct       Other N.B.F.     (incl.
                                      Shopping     Contracting                    conting.)
 1. Civil Works*                     2.00          38.20                         40.20
                                     (1.45)***     (27.75)                       (29.20)


 2. Goods, Materials*                2.70          24.10                         26.80
                                     (2.00)        (17.55)                       (19.55)


 3. Consulting Services,                           3.70          4.30            8.00
 Studies, Project                                  (1.30)        (4.30)          (5.60)
 Administration


 Total:                              4.70          66.00         4.40            75.00
                                     (3.45)        (46.60)       (4.30)          (54.35)




(b) Actual (Estimated)



                                              - 28 -

     Expenditure Category                                Procurement Method**                 Total
                                                   Local           Direct                      Cost
                                       NCB       Shopping       Contracting   Other  N.B.F.    (incl.
                                                                                            conting.)
 1. Civil Works*                                               41.48                        41.48
                                                               (30.13)                      (30.13)


 2. Goods, Materials*                                          26.82                        26.82
                                                               (19.22)                      (19.22)


 3. Consulting Services,               0.50     5.93           0.53                         6.96
 Studies, Project                      (0.50)   (2.84)         (0.53)                       (3.87)
 Administration

 Total:                                0.50     5.93           68.83                        75.27+
                                       (0.50)   (2.84)         (49.89)                      (53.23)



* Community subprojects
** Totals include taxes and contingencies
*** Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by Bank loan
+ Does not include Front End Fee
Annex 2: Estimated Project Financing by Component (US$ million)
Project Component                    Local         Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign Total
                                     Appraisal     Appraisal    Appraisal  Actual  Actual  Actual
A. Community Subprojects
- FUMAC                                 10.05        29.85        39.90     13.00   31.30   44.30
- FUMAC-P                                5.00        15.00        20.00     0.55    2.90    3.45
- PAC                                    1.70         5.00         6.70     5.40    16.85   22.25


Subtotal:                               16.75        49.85        66.60     18.95   51.05   70.00


B. Institutional Development             1.00         2.90         3.90     0.90    2.25    3.15


C. Administration, Monitoring            2.30         1.00         3.30     2.19    0.51    2.70
and Evaluation


Total Baseline Cost                     20.05        53.75        73.80     22.04   53.81   75.85


Physical Contingencies                   0.40         0.40         0.80       --     --      --
Price Contingencies                      0.20         0.20         0.40       --     --      --


Total Project Cost:                     20.65        54.35        75.00     22.04   53.81   75.85
Source: CAR estimates and Bank disbursement data.
Foreign and Total columns include Front End Fee US$0.5435




                                                          - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Specific investments carried out under the Project were decided by communities during implementation. It
was not possible to know ex ante how available resources would be allocated among types of subproject
investments or to forecast cost-effectiveness, rate of return and associated fiscal impact of the Project.
However, it was reasonably expected that subprojects to be financed would, in general, be similar to those
financed under previous and ongoing community-based rural development projects, both in Bahia and
across the wider Northeast Program. In this annex, the Northeast Program refers to the set of CDD-based rural
poverty reduction projects implemented since 1993 in the ten states of Northeast Brazil (which includes Northern
Minas Gerais).


Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability of Infrastructure and Social Subprojects

The bulk of subproject investments under the Northeast Program have been of the infrastructure type (72
percent), while social subprojects have made up <3 percent. Most of these subprojects are in the realm of
core public services (water, sanitation, electrification, social investments). Numerous studies show that
these basic services provide benefits that justify their universal provision (World Bank 1998).             The
cumulative experience of the Program has shown that the CDD approach to rural infrastructure and service
delivery targeted to the rural poor can work in a cost effective manner in the Brazilian Northeast. Several
aspects of project design help to ensure that the CDD mechanism to deliver communal infrastructure and
social investments represents the least-cost, best alternative:

(a)     The demand-driven nature of each subproject permits scarce resources to flow where they are most
needed. Community participation, under the direction of the project Municipal Councils, ensures that the
chosen subproject is the best alternative for the local community. Furthermore, the Program has, in the
Municipal Councils, a democratic mechanism to prioritize the use of the resources available at the
municipal level.

(b)       Second, the use of standard technical designs (projetos padrão) for the most common types of
infrastructure and social subprojects (including corresponding cost parameters) ensures that community
associations employ least-cost models for subproject implementation. These standard designs also decrease
search and information costs for community associations by providing established patterns of initiating and
completing a subproject. The technical quality of these investments has been uniformly satisfactory.

(c)     Delegation of subproject implementation directly to the community associations has proven to
generate cost savings, when compared to comparable quality works implemented by public sector agencies.
The contracting procedures prescribed in the Project Operational Manual require direct contracting through
competitive processes on all subprojects: the community association solicits three bids for the subproject
and chooses the least-cost bid. These characteristics have contributed to the cost-effectiveness of the
subprojects financed under the Program.

The operation and maintenance of infrastructure and social subprojects have been also been satisfactory,
with community associations charging user fees sufficient to operate and maintain the investments. Van
Zyl (2000), based on information provided by the Project State Technical Units, found that 7,240 or 89
percent of a sample of 8,123 subprojects financed from 1995-98, were fully operational in March 2000.
Furthermore, the same review found that there was no substantial difference in terms of sustainability
across infrastructure, productive and social subprojects. Of 6,064 infrastructure, 1,820 productive and



                                                     - 30 -

239 social community subprojects, 89, 87 and 88 percent, respectively, were fully operational at the time of
the study. The arrangements for securing the sustainability of subprojects financed under the Project (see
section 6) are also assessed as positive.

Financial Viability of Productive Subprojects

Benefit-cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the principal types of productive subprojects analyzed.
Analysis of selected productive subprojects also suggests that the investments are generally financially
sustainable (see Table 2). Although beneficiary associations receive a one-time grant for their productive
subproject, this investment is financially sustainable because cost recovery through user fees by the average
beneficiary association is, in general, adequate to cover both O&M and replacement of the original
investment long before the end of its useful economic life. For illustrative purposes, six productive
subprojects representative of the most typical productive investments carried out in Bahia were selected for
financial analysis. Activity models were constructed for these subprojects.

The results of the financial analysis are summarized in Table 2

Table 2: Results of the Financial Analysis of Selected Productive Subprojects
            Type of Activity               Investment       IRR      NPV         Net       Years to
                                               (R$)         (%)       (at      Annual      Recover
                                                                    10%)       Income         the
                                                                                (R$)        Capital
                                                                                           Invested
Manioc Mill                                   18,450        15.8    5,377       3,970         5.6
Communal Tractor                              39,752        37.6    35,141     18,075         2.4
Small Irrigation 1                            44,054        >50    327,366     90,781         0.9
Small Irrigation 2                            28,311        28.1    23,573     15,238         3.3
Goat Production                               43,346        16.5    16,925     12,180         5.8
Fish Farm                                     46,104        15.6    13,739     13,162         5.6

The investment cost of the subprojects ranges from around R$18,000 to R$46,000, which is typical of
productive investments under the Program. All subprojects show satisfactory internal rates of return,
several quite high. Less than six years are needed to recover the investment in all cases and less than 3.5 in
half. The net incremental annual income or value-added generated by the subprojects (at full development)
ranges from R$3,970 for the manioc mill to R$90,781 in the case of one of the irrigation subprojects, with
an average value of around R$26,000 for an average investment of around R$37,000. The Internal Rates
of Return (IRRs) of these productive subprojects compare favorably with the real cost of borrowing by the
Brazilian Government. A reference for such borrowing is the Long-term Interest Rate (TJLP).

To examine the financial robustness of the productive subprojects, a sensitivity analysis was conducted on
illustrative activity models representative of the types financed under the Project, analyzed as follows:

Manioc Mill. Middle-size construction equipped with mill, press, oven and other equipment required to
process cassava into flour. Investments include a pack animal to transport produce to and from the plant.
The mill serves a local community of some 30 to 40 farming families. The plant operates around 100 days
per year processing some 120 tons of cassava into approximately 30 tons of farinha and 4.8 tons of starch,
employing one person to operate the plant during those days. Farmers are charged a users' fee of 15
percent of output. Association members normally pay a smaller fee than non-members.



                                                     - 31 -

Communal Tractor. 75 HP Tractor, plus trailer, grain husker, grader and other equipment, including a
garage. The tractor benefits an association of some 65 farming families. The tractor works for members
and non-members providing land preparation, grain shelling and transport services. It works approximately
1,700 hour per year serving some 300 ha. User fees for members are smaller than prices charged by private
tractor owners and fees charged to non-members. The subproject employs a full-time motorist hired by the
association.

Small Irrigation 1. Purchase of 18 localized irrigation kits for 38 families to pump water to irrigate a total
of some 29 ha (0.8 ha per family). The irrigation is accompanied by the introduction of a new technical
package and two new cash crops, chuchu and quiabo (two high-price Brazilian vegetables with good local
markets), which replace the existing traditional cultivation of corn, beans and bananas, providing a very
good return.

Small Irrigation 2. Sprinkling irrigation system to irrigate 10 ha of previously uncultivated land with
water pumped from a permanent water source, benefiting 10 farming families. Most of the irrigated land is
used for traditional subsistence crops, corn and beans, although a cash crop-- watermelon ­ is planted on
one-third of the new area. Two crops are obtained per year.

Goat Production. Production of goats by a group of some 30 farmers, with an investment consisting of 120
breeding females and 4 breeding males. A pen, a fence and other facilities are constructed and 85 ha of
improved pastures are installed. Income is derived from the sale (or family-consumption) of incremental
animals and the sale (or family-consumption) of milk.

Fish Farm. Five fish ponds of 2,200 m2 each, with a capacity for 8,500 tilapia fish each. Ponds are
rotated, with 4 ponds being permanently used at a time. Two harvests are collected per pond in a year, with
a total output of 24,000 kg. of fish. Output is sold locally to middle-men. One person is employed half-time
to feed the fish and another is employed half-time as watchman. Part-time labor is used to harvest the fish.

Three scenarios are considered. In the first one, production is assumed to be 20 percent below the base
case, due for example, to marketing problems.           A 20 percent decrease in output causes a 20 percent
decrease in revenue, but this is to some extent matched by a reduction in the use of inputs and hence in
variable costs.   In the second scenario, the price decreases 20 percent and revenue also decreases by the
same proportion without any compensating element.            Finally, in the third scenario, an increase of 20
percent in the price of variable costs is assumed.       The results of the sensitivity analysis for types of
subprojects pertinent to the experience of the Bahia Project, are shown below:




                                                      - 32 -

       Table 3: Results of the Sensitivity Analysis, Productive Subprojects
       Type of Subproject                Base Case           Scenario 1  Scenario 2       Scenario 3
                                                           - 20% output - 20% price      + 20% costs
      Manioc Mill
       IRR (%)                               15.8               11.5         10.1            14.4
       NPV (R$)                             5,377              1,385         132            4,124
      Communal Tractor
       IRR (%)                               37.6               17.2         < 0             16.8
       NPV (R$)                             35,141             10,836      -23,602          10,221
      Small Irrigation 1
       IRR (%)                               >50                >50          39.4             >50
       NPV (R$)                           327,366             163,375      77,015          154,646
      Small Irrigation 2
       IRR (%)                               28.1               7.4          4.6             13.0
       NPV (R$)                             23,573             -2,965       -6,057          3,546
      Goat Production
       IRR (%)                               16.5               12.8         11.5            15.2
       NPV (R$)                             16,925             7,097        3,847           13,395
      Fish Farm
       IRR (%)                               15.6               9.3          < 0              < 0
       NPV (R$)                             13,739             -1,732      -39,886         -26,024
      (*) IRR not defined; net benefits are negative all years.

Fiscal Impact

The direct fiscal impact depends on what the State would have done in the absence of the Project. If the
State had attempted to provide the basic services through traditional delivery mechanisms, the fiscal
savings are direct and significant (see cost effectiveness discussion above). Evaluations indicate that a
significant fiscal contribution derives from cost savings associated with the decreased need for state and
local governments to provide certain services, due to project investments. Under the previous, Rural
Poverty Alleviation Project in Bahia, estimated annual savings from reduced need for water trucks to
provide communities with drinking water during critical periods totaled R$1.0 million. In years of severe
drought, savings were at least double those of a "normal" year. Provision of better quality, more reliable
water also has less quantifiable but nonetheless significant impacts on health, reducing public health costs
of Municipal Governments. FECAMP III surveys showed 60% of a sample of families with cistern
investments reported reduced incidence of water-borne disease. Subproject O&M costs are typically paid
by beneficiary communities, reducing the fiscal burden on municipalities and states (with few exceptions,
e.g., electricity and some types of water supply, commonly maintained by state agencies or the municipality
and operated in return for a user fee).




                                                         - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                           No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                              (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)            Implementation Development
                    Month/Year        Count             Specialty                            Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/15/2000                         3     Ag. Economist
                                                 1     Rural Engineer
                                                 1     Anthropologist
                                                 2     Agric. Specialist
                                                 1     RD Specialist


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/08/2001                         3     Agric. Economist
                                                 1     Anthropologist
                                                 2     Agric. Specialist
                                                 1     RD Specialist

              12/17/2001                         1     Agric. Specialist

 Supervision
              05/10/2002                          1    Fin. Specialist                           S              S
                                                  1    Agric. Specialist
                                                  1    Sociologist

              11/01/2002                          1    Agric. Specialist                         S              S
                                                  1    Sociologist

              04/03/2003                          1    Agric. Specialist                         S              S

              07/10/2003                          1    Agric. Specialist                         S              S
              03/26/2004                          1    Agric. Specialist                         S              S
                                                  1    Agric. Economist

              08/04/2004                          1    Agric. Specialist                         S              S

              10/29/2004                          1    Agric. Specialist                         S              S
                                                  1    Agric. Econ/Team Leader
                                                  1    Agric. Economist
                                                  1     Sociologist


 ICR
              10/29/2004                         1      Agric. Specialist                        S              S
                                                 1      Agric. Econ/Team Leader
                                                 1      Agric. Economist
                                                 1      Sociologist*

*Preparation activities conducted by the Team during the 10/29/2004 mission , contacts with CAR, status update
and data collection associated with the Phase II Bahia State Integrated Project: Rural Poverty, was deemed
adequate to gauge progress for the ICR.




                                                       - 34 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            3.00                           5.00
  Appraisal/Negotiation                12.00                         20.00
  Supervision                          48.00                         81.60
  ICR                                   4.00                           8.00
  Total                                67.00                        114.60




                                            - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Indigenous people's
participation
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Perfil Socioeconômico da População Beneficiária, Fase II ­ Relatório de Consultoria Técnica, Fundação
Economia de Campinas, Universidade de Campinas, São Paulo March 2005.

Evolução do Perfil Socioeconômico dos Beneficiários e Efeitos Imediatos dos Projetos (Pernambuco,
Bahia e Ceará) ­ Relatório de Consultoria Técnica, Fundação Economia de Campinas, Universidade de
Campinas, São Paulo, March 2005

Projeto Produzir ­ Funcionamento e Resultados Imediatos: Relatório de Consultoria Técnica - Bahia,
Fundação Economia de Campinas, Universidade de Campinas, São Paulo, September 2004.

"Can community driven infrastructure programs contribute to social capital? Findings from the rural
North East of Brazil", Andrea Ryan Rizvi, Alberto Costa, Social Capital Task Team Seminar Series,
Washington DC, May 2003.

Decentralized Rural Development, Enhanced Community Participation and Local Government
Performance: Evidence from Northeast Brazil, Johan Van Zyl, J., Loretta Sonn and Alberto Costa, 2000.

Avaliação Preliminar do Cédula da Terra, Fundação Economia de Campinas (FECAMP), Universidade
de Campinas, São Paulo, 2003.

Borrower Completion Report, Secretariat of Planning, December 2005

Estudo Custo-Beneficio do Programa Produzir II, DESENBANCO, Salvador, Bahia, July 2004.

Project files: Supervision PSRs, ISRs and periodic progress reports/assessments; Aide Memoires; MIS
data.




                                                - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR

The Borrower's Completion Report prepared by the State Technical Unit/SEPLAN follows.

                                                       APRESENTAÇÃO

Ao término da primeira etapa de execução do Projeto de Combate a Pobreza Rural ­ PCPR/Bahia, denominado Programa
PRODUZIR II, este Relatório Final apresenta as principais realizações de um período de quatro anos, assim como fornece
informações gerais sobre o seu desempenho, conforme metas estabelecidas no Acordo de Empréstimo n.º 4.623-BR, firmado
entre o Banco Mundial e o Governo do Estado, em 29 de outubro de 2001, referente ao período compreendido entre 1 de julho
de 2001 a 30 de junho de 2005.

Investimentos para promover a inclusão sócio-econômica dos mais pobres e ações para reforçar a governança. Essas foram as
duas marcas do Produzir na etapa que se encerra. Os quatro anos que se passaram foi um período de consolidação de uma
estrutura orgânica operada de dentro para fora, isto é, partindo do beneficiário para construir os mecanismos de
implementação centrados na organização e descentralização, assegurando às comunidades o papel de demandantes das
ações, de executora e gestora dos investimentos do Programa, para que pudessem participar ativamente da sua execução e,
principalmente, usufruir dos benefícios propiciados pelo Produzir.

A partir de 2003, visando dar uma maior dimensão aos investimentos do Produzir, através da complementaridade de ações de
inclusão sócio-econômica dos mais pobres, um intenso movimento de articulação foi iniciado para atuar em parceria com
outros órgãos governamentais que desempenham importantes papéis no combate à pobreza na Bahia. Para isso, se delineou
ações diferenciadas junto às organizações parceiras, contemplando as especificidades organizacionais das mesmas para
compartilhar de programas e projetos, destacando-se: o Projeto Viver Melhor Rural, o Programa Cabra forte, o Projeto Terra
Fértil, O Projeto de Irrigação da Bacia Sedimentar de Tucano e Projeto de Revitalização da Agricultura da Região Nordeste da
Bahia.

Certamente não será possível transmitir em uma síntese a diversidade de experiências vividas, lições aprendidas, dificuldades
enfrentadas, erros e acertos, enfim, a profundidade do trabalho humano que percorreu toda essa etapa de execução do
Produzir. Todavia, é necessário reconhecer e difundir a dedicação da equipes do Banco Mundial e da CAR e das entidades
representativas dos beneficiários que, imbuídas de um espírito solidário e social buscaram contribuir para o estabelecimento de
novos padrões de relação entre a sociedade e o Poder Público. Além de um panorama geral das ações do Produzir em quatro
anos, nas próximas páginas serão encontrados resultados concretos da atuação das organizações dos beneficiários que
reforçam a identidade do Programa com as famílias mais pobres do Estado da Bahia.


1.POR DENTRO DA REDE PRODUZIR

1.1. Organização: O Programa é coordenado pela Secretaria do Planejamento ­ SEPLAN, por intermédio da Companhia
de Desenvolvimento e Ação Regional ­ CAR que administra o Projeto em parceria com os Conselhos Municipais, estando a
execução sob a responsabilidade das Associações Comunitárias. A CAR tem por finalidade coordenar e promover a execução
das políticas e programas integrados de desenvolvimento municipal e regional do Estado, assumindo a responsabilidade pela
execução, acompanhamento e coordenação, além da monitoria e avaliação do Programa.

Com o propósito específico de executar as atribuições relacionadas com o Programa, a CAR possui em sua estrutura
organizacional, a Coordenação do PRODUZIR ­ CPR, composta das Subcoordenações de Programação e de
Acompanhamento e Avaliação, além de 16 Escritórios Regionais, distribuídos de forma estratégica em todo o território baiano,
contando com equipe de 47 técnicos, com formação nas áreas de Ciências Agrárias, Ciências Sociais, Economia, Construção
Civil, Meio Ambiente, etc., além de toda a infra-estrutura administrativa. Os 16 escritórios regionais são dotados de 47 veículos
para atender a demanda de trabalho, bem como de equipamentos necessários para a realização das atividades, como GPS,
impressoras, micro-computadores interligados em rede via "on line", com a sede da empresa em Salvador, etc. São diversas as
responsabilidades dos escritórios regionais, a saber: (i) participar das reuniões dos Conselhos Municipais, (ii) participar da
elaboração dos Planos de Investimentos Municipais, (iii) avaliar a viabilidade técnica das demandas apresentadas pelas
Associações e Conselhos Municipais, (iv)       supervisionar os subprojetos financiados e (v) assessorar as associações e
conselhos na implantação dos subprojetos desde a etapa de contratação dos serviços até a prestação de contas dos recursos
liberados.



                                                             - 39 -

As rotinas de operacionalização dos escritórios regionais foram aperfeiçoadas ao longo da execução do Projeto, especialmente
quando a elaboração e avaliação das programações de atividades, que passaram a ser mensais e geradas automaticamente a
partir do MIS. Vale ressaltar que todas as informações do Projeto são registradas diretamente no MIS, permitindo que todos os
usuários do sistema tenham acesso em tempo real aos dados cadastrados.

Operacionalmente, o Produzir conta ainda com o apoio das Assessorias Técnica e Jurídica e das Gerências Administrativa e
Financeira. Ainda como suporte à Coordenação do Projeto, a CAR dispõe da Comissão Técnica de Garantia Ambiental -
CTGA, com a competência de exercer o autocontrole ambiental, tendo como guia a legislação ambiental e as salvaguardas do
Plano de Gerenciamento Ambiental do Produzir.

A gestão no nível municipal é exercida pelos Conselhos Municipais, instância colegiada de natureza deliberativa, através dos
quais são formulados os Planos de Investimentos Municipais, contemplando as propostas de subprojetos a serem financiados
pelo Programa. Outro papel de destaque desses Conselhos tem sido o de liderar o processo de articulação com outros
conselhos municipais, objetivando subsidiar a formulação de políticas públicas, no âmbito municipal, promovendo a integração
de programas e projetos que têm por objetivo o desenvolvimento municipal.No âmbito local, a execução dos subprojetos
comunitários é de responsabilidade das associações comunitárias, constituídas legalmente por grupos de cidadãos com
interesses comuns. São instâncias representativas das comunidades, que participam de todas as fases de implementação dos
subprojetos, desde a seleção das prioridades, até a execução e gestão dos empreendimentos.

1.2. Rede de Informações: Para o monitoramento e informações do Projeto, a CAR dispõe do Sistema de Administração
de Convênios - SAC, sistema operacional computadorizado que coleta, armazena e gerencia o banco de dados, registra o
fluxo de operações dos subprojetos e emite relatórios sobre a execução técnica, física e financeira do Projeto. Em 2004 já se
encontrava implantado o SACC ­ Sistema de Administração de Contratos e Convênios, passando a controlar também os
contratos do Projeto. Até o final desta Auditoria, o sistema SACC encontrava-se com 100% de dados cadastrados. Dessa
forma, o SACC é o instrumento de acompanhamento da implantação das ações relativas aos subprojetos, fornecendo dados
referentes aos convênios firmados, tais como: identificação dos convenentes, tipo de subprojeto, número de beneficiários,
valor conveniado, vigência, repasse de recursos e resultado das avaliações físico-financeiras realizadas pelos técnicos dos
Escritórios Regionais. Estes dados são atualizados e encaminhados ao BIRD por meio eletrônico.

O Sistema também proporciona a emissão de relatórios gerenciais sobre o estágio físico das obras objeto dos convênios e o
controle do envio do       Demonstrativo de Receita e Despesa ­ DRD, a exemplo do Relatório de Atividades, de
Acompanhamento, Resumo Físico-Financeiro e de Inadimplência e Relatórios de Desempenho, este último apresentando
informações relativas ao número de convênios por linha de financiamento, total de beneficiários, custo médio dos subprojetos
implantados por categoria, número de convênios por linha de financiamento, assim como o cálculo de indicadores de
desempenho relativos aos custos médios dos projetos conveniados/implantados. Além dos dados relativos aos convênios, o
SACC contém informações acerca das solicitações de financiamento encaminhadas pelas organizações comunitárias,
permitindo avaliar a demanda por linha de ação e tipo de projeto, cujo perfil é determinante para o planejamento das ações a
serem desenvolvidas.       A partir das informações geradas neste sistema são elaborados relatórios de desempenho do
PRODUZIR, nos prazos e termos de referências acordados com o Banco, conforme estabelecido no artigo III ­ Execução do
Projeto, Seção 3.03 (c) do Acordo de Empréstimo. O Sistema SACC foi desenvolvido nos moldes exigidos e recomendados
pelo BIRD, contemplando os módulos necessários à adequada implementação do sistema de informações gerenciais do
Projeto.


2.O PRODUZIR EM NÚMEROS

2.1. Focalização: Dos 170 municípios mais pobres do Estado, com IDH mais baixo, apenas 3 não foram beneficiados pelo
Projeto. Nesses municípios os investimentos foram da ordem de R$ 97,5 milhões, o que representa 49,3 % total de recursos
aplicados em subprojetos comunitários. Em média cada um desses municípios recebeu cerca de R$ 574 mil. Os demais
municípios receberam, cada um, cerca de R$ 422 mil. Isso demonstra a prioridade do Projeto no atendimento aos mais
pobres. Alem disso, no âmbito do Produzir em parceria com diversas instituições públicas, foi iniciado em 2003 um Programa
especial, o Viver Melhor Rural, tendo como área de atuação os 100 municípios mais pobres do Estado, onde foram
concentrados investimentos em ações de saneamento básico e de geração de renda.




                                                             - 40 -

2.2. Avaliação do Cumprimento de Metas: Foram aplicados aproximadamente 75 milhões de dólares na implantação de
2,9 mil subprojetos que beneficiaram 257,1 mil famílias em 390 municípios baianos. A implantação desses subprojetos
envolveu a participação de 2,6 mil Associações Comunitárias e de 326 Conselhos Municipais como entidades gestoras e
beneficiárias de 94% dos recursos do Programa.


                  METAS                              PREVISTAS                     REALIZADAS                       (b/a)
                                                          (a)                           (b)                          %

Municípios                                                              407                         390                        95,82

Famílias Atendidas                                                  250.000                     257.104                       102,84

Conselhos Municipais                                                       -                        326                            -

Associações Comunitárias                                              1.850                       2.589                       139,95

Subprojetos Comunitários (nº)                                         3.500                       2.927                        83,63

Subprojetos Comunitários (US$)                                   67.500.000                 70.400.764                        105,00

Desenvolvimento Institucional (US$)                               4.500.000                   2.251.201                        50,00

Administração (US$)                                               3.000.000                   1.833.561                        62,00

Taxa (US$)                                                          543.500                     543.500                            -

TOTAL DE RECURSOS                                                75.000.000                 75.029.026                        100,04




2.3. O Atendimento das Demandas Comunitárias: Após a análise entre as metas estabelecidas e os subprojetos
efetivamente conveniados, é importante, também, comparar o que foi realizado pelo Programa e as demandas apresentadas
pelas organizações comunitárias.

      TIPO DE SUBPROJETO                  DEMANDA                   %           ATENDIMENTO                %

Infra-estrutura                             10.027                  69                  2.023              70

Produtivos                                   4.096                  28                   802               27

Sociais                                        490                  3                    102                3

                TOTAL                       14.613                 100                  2.927              100



Fonte: CAR/SACC


Observando-se o quadro acima, percebe-se que a concentração das demandas das comunidades está focada em projetos de
infraestrutura, somando 10.027, ou seja, 69 % dos 14.613 pedidos de financiamento. Esta constatação é fácil de entender ao
se considerar o quadro imenso de pobreza e de carência de infraestrutura e serviços básicos que existe nos municípios
atendidos pelo Produzir; o Programa, então, chega a esses locais como uma alternativa rápida e eficiente de resolver os
problemas de ordem mais estrutural. Outra análise que se faz a partir do quadro acima, é a defasagem de 20% entre as
demandas apresentadas pelas comunidades (já cadastradas no SACC) e o que foi efetivamente atendido pelo Programa. Isto
se explica pela limitação de recursos financeiros do Produzir, frente às grandes necessidades da população pobre rural. Se por
um lado, as necessidades são quase que infinitas, por outro há um obstáculo concreto que é a limitação dos recursos
financeiros aportados.

Dos 2.927 subprojetos implantados, 2.023 (70%) foram de infra-estrutura, 802 (27%) produtivos e 102 (3%) sociais. Os




                                                             - 41 -

principais tipos de projetos de infra-estrutura são: abastecimento de água, energia elétrica, energia solar, melhorias viárias e
pontes entre outros. Dentre os produtivos, se destacam: mecanização agrícola, pequenas agroindústrias, módulos para
comercialização e, finalmente, entre os sociais se destacam melhorias habitacionais e sanitárias.

2.4. Os Investimentos Realizados: Foram aplicados nessa etapa recursos da ordem de R$ 218 milhões. No que se refere
aos benefícios diretos, os investimentos do Produzir trouxe alívio da pobreza, com efeito, positivo imediato na melhoria das
condições de vida das famílias atendidas. Isto é particularmente claro nos subprojetos de abastecimento de água com a
instalação de 18 mil ligações domiciliares, a construção de 17 mil cisternas residenciais e 122 barragens; de energia com a
instalação de 4 mil ligações domiciliares de energia elétrica e 16 mil sistemas residenciais de energia solar; de melhoria da
habitabilidade com 28 mil instalações sanitárias residenciais e 2 mil melhorias habitacionais; e de melhorias viárias com a
construção de 168 pontes de concreto. Ainda com relação a esses benefícios, aproximadamente 100 mil famílias estão
obtendo melhoria de renda mediante a implantação de projetos de natureza produtiva, dos quais 588 tratores, 86 casas de
farinha, 47 módulos para comercialização da produção e 110 pequenas agroindústrias.

2.5. Os Tipos de Investimentos Realizados: Na tabela abaixo se constata que do total de 2.927 convênios, a maior
concentração é para subprojetos de mecanização agrícola - em número de 588 - seguido de sanitário residencial e energia
solar. Vale ressaltar, entretanto, que a oferta de água, se analisada a partir da soma dos subprojetos de sistema de
abastecimento de água, poços, barragem e cisterna domiciliar, totaliza 813 subprojetos, número maior do que a mecanização
agrícola (588 subprojetos). O que significa dizer que a água continua representando prioridade critical para a população alvo do
Programa Produzir.


        INVESTIMENTOS MAIS                 N º D E          Nº DE DOMICÍLIOS   N º DE FAMÍLIAS    V A L O R

             D E M A N D A D O S     S U B P R O J E T O S   BENEFICIADOS        ATENDIDAS       APLICADO
                                                                                                    (R$)

 Mecanização agrícola                        588                    -               84.000          36.474.014

 Sanitário residencial                       501                 28.438             28.438          47.155.247

 Energia solar                               336                 16.261             16.261          32.453.942

 Cisterna domiciliar                         306                 17.498             17.498          20.265.627

 Sistema de abastecimento de água            278                 18.077             18.077          22.376.573

 Energia elétrica                            183                  4.137             4.137             3.183.898

 Ponte e outras melhorias viárias            168                    -               39.845          11.002.208

 Barragem                                    122                    -               13.219            8.412.8 73

 Outros Subprojetos(*)                       110                    -               11.195            6.326.048

 Poço                                        107                  8.950             8.950             2.924.083

 Melhoria habitacional                       95                   2.355             2.355           10.155.784

 Casas de farinha                            86                     -               7.660             3.845.237

 Módulo de Feira                             47                     -               5.469             4.604.819

                T O T A L                  2.927                   95.716          257.104         209.180.353




Fonte: CAR/SACC
(*) Subprojetos de beneficiamento de produtos agropecuários ou de extração mineral e extrativismo vegetal e pequeno fabricos
   de produtos artesanais.

2.6. Distribuição dos Recursos Aplicados por Componente: Estimaçôes indicam, do total de R$ 218,0 milhões aplicados,
R$ 157,6 são provenientes do BIRD, representando 72,29% e R$ 60,3 milhões, ou seja, 27,7%, referem-se ao aporte da
contrapartida, dos quais R$ 40,0 milhões correspondem a recursos do Estado e R$ 20,6 dos beneficiários. Esses recursos
foram destinados, em sua grande maioria, aos subprojetos comunitários com uma parcela correspondente a R$ 204,7 milhões,
ou 94% do total aplicado.

Desembolso do Acordo de Empréstimo 4623-BR e Contrapartida




                                                                       - 42 -

                                                           R$                                                        US$
        COMPONENTES
                                     BIRD         Estado*     Beneficiário    Total           BIRD         Estado*     Beneficiário     Total

 Subprojetos Comunitários           148.388.982   35.719.700    20.565.775   204.674.457     51.040.554    12.320.134      7.040.076    70.400.764

 FUMAC                               90.847.263   21.859.797    12.599.509   125.306.569     31.304.372     7.556.228      4.317.844    43.178.444

 FUMAC-P                              8.457.408     2.015.212    1.192.771    11.665.391      2.887.910       697.082        398.332     3.983.324

 PAC                                 49.084.311   11.844.691     6.773.495       -           16.848.272     4.066.824      2.323.900    23.238.996

 Desenvolvimento Institucional        6.531.858       -            -           6.531.858      2.251.201        -            -            2.251.201
 Administração do Programa            1.421.556     3.948.882      -           5.370.438        514.745     1.318.816       -            1.833.561

 Custos Operacionais                    842.443     3.369.771      -           4.212.214        268.023     1.072.094       -            1.340.117

 Supervisão                             579.113      579.111       -           1.158.224        246.722       246.722       -             493.444

 Taxa                                 1.301.085       -            -           1.301.085        543.500        -            -             543.500


          Total Geral               157.643.481   39.668.582    20.565.775   217.877.838     54.350.000    13.638.950      7.040.076    74,485,886




Fonte: CAR/GEF estimaçôes
(*) Além da contrapartida requerida para desembolso dos fundos do Acordo de Empréstimo, o Estado da Bahia aplicou mais de R$22.050.701.

3.AVALIAÇÃO DAS AÇÕES DO PRODUZIR

Considerando-se os tipos de subprojetos mais solicitados, far-se-á algumas considerações consubstanciadas em recente
avaliação realizada pela Fundação Economia Campinas ­ Fecamp e os estudos realizados por Alberto Coelho Costa
(Consultor do Banco Mundial), no período de 2002 a 2003.

3.1. Mecanização Agrícola: Proporciona benefícios aos pequenos produtores, os quais têm a sua sobrevivência baseada
na exploração de culturas de ciclo temporário e enfrentam dificuldades decorrentes da falta de recursos para o aluguel de
máquinas e equipamentos agrícolas. O subprojeto destina-se a melhorar as operações de preparo do solo e beneficiamento da
produção de feijão e milho, com a introdução de máquinas e equipamentos adequados, visando melhorar o desempenho
econômico das comunidades beneficiadas, através do aumento da produtividade do trabalho das culturas exploradas e do
aumento da renda dos produtores, decorrente disso. Os objetivos do subprojeto são, em suma, os seguintes: incentivar a
prática do uso coletivo de máquinas e equipamentos agrícolas, multiplicar a capacidade do trabalho, possibilitar a expansão
das áreas exploradas e obter maior eficiência, agregando valores ao sistema produtivo.

Segundo informações prestadas pelos próprios beneficiários desse tipo de subprojeto, observou-se os seguintes efeitos
positivos: (i) Aumento da produção agrícola destinada para venda; (ii) Aumento da produção agrícola destinada para consumo;
(iii) Redução do tempo das operações agrícolas; (iv) Diminuição do gasto com contratação de serviços externos; e (v) Geração
de novas ocupações para as famílias.

A mecanização agrícola incrementa a renda da maioria das famílias beneficiárias, através da ampliação da área cultivada e do
aumento da produção, contribuindo para melhorar a produtividade das operações agrícolas no cultivo das lavouras
tradicionalmente exploradas, a exemplo do milho e feijão. Esse tipo de subprojeto tem estimulado o associativismo e a
formação de capital social, dado que a gestão do uso do trator implica em negociações, estabelecimento de regras a serem
administradas, a gestão da manutenção e dos recursos financeiros obtidos.

3.2. Melhoria Sanitária: A melhoria sanitária permite equacionar o problema dos dejetos humanos, dando-lhes um destino
adequado, impedindo a contaminação dos habitantes, principalmente por doenças infecciosas e parasitárias. Em 2000, 56%
dos domicílios da amostra de subprojetos de infra-estrutura não possuíam banheiro/sanitários; em 2003, esse percentual caiu
para 36%. A sua implantação incentiva novos hábitos de higiene, promovendo a melhoria da saúde e a preservação do meio
ambiente e trazendo o conforto e o desenvolvimento para comunidades rurais. O objetivo desse subprojeto é, portanto, o de
estender a assistência sanitária às comunidades mais carentes como forma de melhorar o padrão de higiene, auxiliar o
controle e a prevenção de doenças e ajudar na preservação do meio ambiente.




                                                                   - 43 -

3.3. Energia Solar: A experiência do Produzir nas áreas rurais mais isoladas e com grande contingente de famílias, a onde
não chega energia elétrica, tem proporcionado mudanças significativas na qualidade de vida do homem do campo. A
instalação de 16 mil módulos de energia solar e a qualificação profissional, para operação e manutenção desses
equipamentos, beneficiou 81 mil pessoas em 306 comunidades.

3.4. Abastecimento de Água: A oferta de água para o consumo humano tem sido uma prioridade do Produzir. A quase
totalidade dos entrevistados no estudo de avaliação da Fecamp manifestou concordância sobre os impactos da oferta de água,
sobretudo em relação à melhoria das condições de vida da população. Esses subprojetos proporcionaram efeitos imediatos
tais como: acesso regular à fonte de água; melhoria da qualidade dos domicílios; redução do tempo médio gasto em atividades
para a obtenção de água em fontes distantes do domicílio (de 2:00 hora para 1:36h) e liberação de tempo para trabalho e/ou
lazer; redução na percepção de casos de doenças na família; além de observar-se efeitos secundários no padrão da moradia,
como a construção de um banheiro por conta do próprio morador, com visível impacto sobre a saúde. Ocorre ainda a
valorização do imóvel, que tem sido apontada pela maioria dos beneficiários de subprojetos de abastecimento de água,
energia elétrica e barragens. Através dos subprojetos de barragem, somente nessa etapa foram acumulados 18.056.762 m³ de
água. Nas comunidades onde foram construídas as barragens, segundo a pesquisa da FECAMP observou-se: redução do
tempo para obter água para consumo da família, em 37% dos domicílios; melhora a qualidade de água consumida em 37%
dos domicílios; permitiu o aumento no consumo alimentar em 12% dos domicílios; valorização do imóvel em 62% dos
domicílios. Dentre os principais usos produtivos da água, destacam-se a criação animal (para 75% dos domicílios), cultivos em
área úmida (50%), irrigação (para 50% dos domicílios), e a criação de peixes(para 37% dos domicílios; o rebanho aumentou
para 25% dos entrevistados.

Considerando os municípios que foram submetidos à avaliação da Fecamp, pode-se afirmar que o uso de caminhão pipa como
fonte de água, praticamente, desapareceu para os domicílios visitados. O impacto dessa mudança é sentido não apenas nos
benefícios derivados da disponibilidade de água de melhor qualidade para o consumo humano, como na saúde e higiene, mas
também pela redução nos gastos financeiros e físicos para obtenção de água em mananciais distantes. Libera membros da
família do trabalho extenuante de obtenção de água em galões.

3.5. Comércio Justo e Solidário: Através do apoio do Projeto, a Federação dos Trabalhadores na Agricultura do Estado da
Bahia ­ FETAG, participou de diversos eventos associados a iniciativa de comércio justo e solidário, especialmente a SANNA
em Bolonha na Itália, no ano de 2002.

A Federação vem desenvolvendo ações junto às associações comunitárias e cooperativas de pequenos agricultores
beneficiários do Projeto, com o objetivo de obtenção da certificação, visando facilitar a comercialização de produtos no
mercado solidário. Recentemente, 84 associações e cooperativas de pequenos agricultores de café, em 21 municípios da
Região da Chapada Diamantina, estão em processo de obtenção da certificação, tendo sido fundamental o apoio do Projeto
nessa iniciativa, complementando a proposta de trabalho da FETAG, através do financiamento de subprojetos comunitários
para o beneficiamento de café.

3.6. Sustentabilidade dos Projetos: Para a grande maioria dos subprojetos implantados pelo PRODUZIR, a sua
sustentabilidade é decorrente do esforço de organização para a realização de atividades comunitárias desenvolvidas pelas
associações comunitárias, fortemente apoiadas pelas ações de capacitação empreendidas pelo Projeto. Essas organizações
são responsáveis pela manutenção, operação e gestão dos subprojetos, exceto naqueles casos, de prestação de serviços
públicos. Seguem abaixo exemplos da forma de gestão de alguns subprojetos:




                                                            - 44 -

3.6.1. Mecanização Agrícola
Os projetos de mecanização agrícola são importantes e estão presentes em praticamente todas as regiões do Estado. A
administração do trator é de inteira responsabilidade das associações comunitárias e a forma de gestão do uso é realizada
geralmente com tarifas diferenciadas entre os sócios e não sócios, sempre com o preço abaixo do valor de mercado. Os
preços pagos pelos sócios variam de R$ 20,00 a R$ 25,00 e pelos não sócios variam de R$ 30,00 a R$ 40,00 a
hora/trabalhada. O custo do operador da máquina é de responsabilidade das associações, através do pagamento de um
salário mensal fixo, que varia de R$ 450,00 a R$ 600,00. Essas máquinas trabalham em média 2.000 horas por ano. As taxas
pagas pelos usuários do trator são utilizadas para o pagamento do operador e manutenção da máquina. A capacitação
continuada, viabilizada pelo Projeto, tem garantido melhores condições de operação das máquinas e do manejo dos solos,
refletindo-se dessa forma, no aumento da produtividade agrícola, bem como no fortalecimento da organização das
comunidades.

 3.6.2. Abastecimento de Água
Os subprojetos de abastecimento de água também estão presentes em todo o Estado e tem sido uma prioridade do Produzir.
Esses projetos proporcionaram efeitos imediatos, tais como: acesso regular à fonte de água; melhoria da qualidade dos
domicílios; redução do tempo médio gasto em atividades para a obtenção de água em fontes distantes do domicílio (de 2:00 à
3:00 horas por dia em média) e liberação de tempo para trabalho e/ou lazer; redução de casos de doenças na família; além de
efeitos secundários no padrão da moradia, como a construção de um banheiro por conta do próprio morador, com visível
impacto sobre a saúde e na valorização do imóvel. Além disso, a água é utilizada para atividades produtivas (lavouras e
pequenos criatórios).

A maioria dos sistemas de abastecimento de água são operados e mantidos pelas associações comunitárias, através do
pagamento de tarifas pelos usuários. Dos sistemas de água implantados pelo Produzir, cerca de 90% deles possuem ligações
domiciliares com hidrômetros, o que facilita a cobrança da tarifa de água. As tarifas são cobradas pelas associações de
acordo com o consumo de cada residência. Nos casos onde não possuem hidrômetros, a cobrança é calculada com base em
estimativa de consumo, considerando-se a quantidade de moradores da residência. Nos sistemas implantados a partir de
adutoras da Empresa Baiana de Saneamento ­ EMBASA, a gestão é realizada por esta concessionária de água com a
cobrança de tarifas de acordo com o consumo de cada família.

Em algunos casos, quando o nível de organização das comunidades não permite a gestão comunitária dos sistemas, o que
dificultaria a cobrança de tarifa para garantir a sustentabilidade dos mesmos, o Projeto, antes do financiamento das obras,
executa um programa intensivo de capacitação, elaborado em conjunto com a associação comunitária e dirigido às famílias
beneficiadas.

3.6.3. Casa de Farinha
Assim como os projetos de mecanização agrícola, a forma de gestão das casas de farinha permite a sua utilização para os
sócios e os não sócios, através do pagamento de taxas diferenciadas. Essas taxas podem ser pagas em produto ou em
espécie, sendo que predomina o pagamento em produto. A quantidade de produto pago pelos sócios varia entre 10 % e 15 %
em relação à quantidade de farinha produzida e pelos não sócios varia entre 15 % e 20 %. O pagamento do operador dos
equipamentos é de responsabilidade das associações, sendo pago um salário fixo, de cerca de R$ 300,00 mensais. Essas
casas de farinha operam em média 6 meses por ano. As taxas pagas pelos usuários da casa de farinha são utilizadas para
pagamento de energia elétrica, consertos, reposição de peças, pagamento do operador e de atividades relacionadas com a
manutenção e ampliação do empreendimento.

3.6.4. Barragem
A forma de gestão das barragens é variada mas, na maioria dos casos, as barragens são inteiramente mantidas pelas
associações comunitárias, através de contribuições mensais dos associados, que tem por finalidade garantir limpezas
periódicas, conserto de cercas, etc. Custos de manutenção das barragens são relativamente baixos, não ocorrendo
dificuldades na gestão.




                                                              - 45 -

3.6.5. Cisternas e Sanitários
São subprojetos de utilização individual, sendo que a sua manutenção é feita pelas próprias famílias beneficiárias, não
ocorrendo normalmente problemas com esses tipos de subprojetos. Vale salientar que a solução de abastecimento de água
através de cisternas, não é definitiva e não resolve inteiramente o problema de desabastecimento, em decorrência da limitação
da quantidade de água de chuva armazenada, visto que as chuvas se concentram em determinados meses do ano. Dessa
forma, elas são implantadas apenas em locais onde não existem outras alternativas para o abastecimento de água, seja de
captação subterrânea ou superficial.

3.6.6. Energia Elétrica
Devido a complexidade da gestão desse tipo de subprojeto, as associações transferem a manutenção e operação das redes de
energia para a Companhia de Energia Elétrica do Estado da Bahia ­ COELBA, que cobra tarifas, conforme o consumo dos
usuários.

3.6.7. Energia Solar
A experiência do Produzir nas áreas rurais mais isoladas, onde não há condições de implantação de redes de energia elétrica,
tem proporcionado mudanças significativas na qualidade de vida dessas famílias, especialmente quanto ao processo de
educação de adultos, através do funcionamento noturno das escolas rurais, sem prejuízo da realização das atividades
geradoras de renda para as famílias. É um subprojeto de utilização individual, sendo que a sua manutenção é feita de
diversas formas, dependendo do nível de organização de cada entidade. Em determinados locais são mantidos pelas famílias
individualmente, em outros, onde as associações são mais organizadas, são cobradas tarifas para que a associação faça a
manutenção do sistema.

Ocorrem em poucos casos, dificuldades na sustentabilidade desses subprojetos. Em comunidades muito carentes os valores
pagos pelos usuários não são suficientes para garantir a reposição de peças, principalmente as baterias, que têm uma vida útil
de aproximadamente 2 anos. Nessas situações o Projeto vem dando uma atenção especial, na implantação de subprojetos
produtivos, que permitam agregação de valor à produção das famílias, na perspectiva de garantir um mínimo de renda, para a
manutenção do seu nível de bem estar.

3.6.8. Pontes
Por se tratar de incrementos de uso público, a manutenção desses subprojetos é feita pelas Prefeituras Municipais, em comum
acordo com as organizações comunitárias.


4.CAPACITAÇÃO

4.1. Disseminação do Conhecimento: O foco da capacitação tem sido o processo incentivado de educação continuada que
envolve os gestores do Programa em todos os níveis de ação: Conselhos Municipais, Associações Comunitárias e Equipes
Técnicas. As ações de capacitação desenvolvidas estão concebidas na perspectiva da sustentabilidade dos subprojetos,
através de cursos e treinamentos específicos para formação de mão de obra, buscando-se qualificá-la para operacionalizar os
subprojetos produtivos e sociais, sempre no propósito de estimular a incorporação de elementos de organização, participação
e competências para uma gestão empreendedora.

Para viabilizar essa prática a CAR tem demandado parcerias com instituições públicas e privadas nas suas respectivas áreas
de especialização. Esta estratégia tem como objetivo a integração do Programa com outros órgãos que operam no âmbito
local, não apenas como complementaridade, mas também como diversificação de conteúdos, tanto do ponto de vista
conceitual, quanto das estratégias metodológicas. A exemplo de parcerias destacam-se o Grupo Ambientalista da Bahia ­
Gambá, Serviço Nacional de Aprendizagem Rural - Senar, Serviço Nacional de Aprendizagem Industrial ­ Senai e Serviço
Brasileiro de Apoio às Micros e Pequenas Empresas ­ Sebrae e a ONG Winrock International.

A implementação das ações de capacitação através do componente Desenvolvimento Institucional, que se dá através da
contratação de assistência técnica e consultorias especializadas pelos Conselhos Municipais e Associações Comunitárias,
contribuem para a consolidação do poder de decisão dos beneficiários, garantindo a execução dos subprojetos, especialmente,
para a gestão e operacionalização dos produtivos e para a disseminação de tecnologia para a captação de água. Na etapa que
se encerra foram realizados 61 convênios de Desenvolvimento Institucional
O resultado das ações de capacitação está representado na realização de 670 eventos para 1,157 associaçôes e 17,050




                                                             - 46 -

participantes, incluindo-se cursos, intercâmbio de experiências e seminários temáticos, tanto para técnicos como para os
beneficiários do Programa. A programação das atividades de capacitação tem sido coerente com a atuação do Produzir.
Assim, em 2001, quando o Governo do Estado estava negociando o novo Acordo de Empréstimo com o Banco Mundial, a
concentração dos eventos foi para equipe técnica de Coordenação do Programa, que avaliava o Produzir I e preparava-se
para o Produzir. Na mesma linha de raciocínio percebe-se que em 2002, logo após a assinatura do Contrato com o BIRD,
houve uma concentração de capacitação para os Conselhos, de forma a habilitá-los para a gestão compartilhada da nova
etapa do Programa. E assim vem ocorrendo nos anos seguintes, sempre a ênfase da capacitação refletindo a atuação e as
parceria estabelecidas pelo Produzir.

Vale aqui ressaltar o esforço conjugado entre a CAR e a Secretaria do Trabalho do Estado, naquele ano. Já em 2003 os
eventos concentraram-se em operação e manutenção dos equipamentos agrícolas e manejo e conservação do solo.A
capacitação da operação (tratorista) habilita, no mínimo, três pessoas da comunidade para operar a máquina, enquanto o de
gestão é feita com os membros da Diretoria da Associação - presidente, tesoureiro, secretário, além dos tratoristas, para que
eles possam aprender e apreender os custos operacionais da hora/máquina e também estabelecer os critérios de uso coletivo
da máquina, por todos os associados. Os treinandos têm como compromisso repassar o conteúdo e determinações
estabelecidas durante o curso para todos os membros da comunidade.Esses cursos foram realizados em parceria com o
SENAR. Em 2004 a prioridade da Capacitação foi para o treinamento de pedreiros de construção de cisterna, de acordo com
a proposta política do governo do Estado de ampliar a oferta de água e em conseqüências das parerias estabelecidas, onde o
Produzir atuou em parceria com outras secretarias e projetos do Estado, a exemplo do Cabra Forte e Água e Cidadania.

No presente ano de 2005, além da capacitação voltada para os Conselhos, para avaliar o Produzir e habilitá-los para o
Produzir novo, a capacitação tem concentrado esforços nos municípios de maior número de projetos conveniados de trator
(região Nordeste da Bahia, priorizada pelo Governo do Estado para incrementar a produção de grãos), realizando um trabalho
intensivo e extensivo a toda a comunidade, no que se refere à gestão e manutenção dos equipamentos de mecanização
agrícola. Até o momento foram realizadas 153 reuniões com as comunidades, envolvendo cerca de cinco mil beneficiários.

Embora a CAR, ao longo destes anos, tenha priorizado a capacitação do público beneficiário, não desconheceu a importância
e significado da preparação de sua equipe de trabalho. Fez diversos investimentos neste sentido, como cursos, seminários
temáticos de desenvolvimento sustentável local, gestão e desenvolvimento estratégico e comportamental (competências de
gestão), entre outros, sempre na perspectiva de atender às exigências do cenário institucional. Todos os eventos de
capacitação e seus desdobramentos são acompanhados pela equipe de Capacitação/Produzir, com apoio sistemático das
equipes dos Escritórios Regionais

4.2. Experiências bem Sucedidas: Constitui-se também um elemento inovador, a criação de mecanismos estimuladores do
processo associativo expressos através da promoção "Associação Nota 10", cujo objetivo específico foi premiar aquelas
associações que se destacaram nas ações de sua responsabilidade. Todo o processo de inscrição e seleção foi realizado sob
a coordenação dos Conselhos Municipais, o que demonstra que estes ganharam mais autonomia e são organismos vivos e
atuantes de estimulo à cidadania. Das centenas de associações inscritas, 73 foram selecionadas pelos Conselhos e uma
comissão regional, com representantes da sociedade civil local de cada região, escolheu as 16 finalistas, de acordo com os
critérios preestabelecidos pela CAR.

Na perspectiva de criar um processo contínuo e incentivado de aprendizagem, que desencadeie a reflexão continuada do fazer
da Empresa em todos os seus níveis de ação, a CAR está implantando o projeto "Premio Gestor CAR", cuja estratégia é
abranger todos os gestores do Produzir, priorizando a ação com os gestores regionais ­ os escritórios locais, que se
constituem no principal condutor do processo de implementação do Programa ao lado dos beneficiários (conselhos e
associações). Este projeto irá possibilitar a construção de um processo continuado de aperfeiçoamento da prática de trabalho
da empresa e também criar mecanismos de incentivo para o melhor desempenho das Associações Comunitárias e dos
Conselhos Municipais, além de contribuir para a construção do Banco de Boas Práticas, identificando, de forma sistemática, as
experiências com resultados positivos, para que se crie um mecanismo pedagogicamente organizado de intercâmbio de
experiência, um poderoso instrumento de capacitação do público beneficiário do Programa.


5.CONSELHOS MUNICIPAIS

Apoio à Consolidação da Rede Produzir



                                                             - 47 -

A estratégia do PCPR, baseada nos processos de organização e de participação comunitária, através da descentralização das
ações, foi definitiva para a construção de uma nova e eficiente forma de gestão social, proporcionando aos municípios e
comunidades beneficiárias os instrumentos para o planejamento e execução dos projetos mais urgentes. Isto tem levado os
conselhos a se constituírem em organismos vivos e atuantes, promovendo mudanças no comportamento técnico e político dos
diversos atores envolvidos. A implantação e/ou reestruturação de Conselhos Municipais é precedida por um processo de
capacitação, cujo conteúdo aborda: a proposta do PCPR; o papel do Conselho; o significado da participação da sociedade civil
na definição dos investimentos necessários ao desenvolvimento das comunidades; gestão dos projetos comunitários e a
importância das parcerias locais. A partir dessa capacitação inicial, são realizadas várias outras, considerando-se, inclusive, a
alternância dos conselheiros ao longo dos tempos.

Levantamento recente, realizado por técnicos do escritório central revelou que a capacitação, associada com a história de
organização local, o perfil do executivo municipal e a competência comprometida do técnico do escritório regional da Car,
levou a que cerca de 20% dos conselhos implantados pelo Produzir tenham uma atuação conjunta com outros conselhos
municipais e incorporem outras discussões e decisões que extrapolam os limites do Produzir. Esta é uma situação embrionária
de Conselhos de Desenvolvimento Local Sustentável, cuja gestão tem chamado a atenção de organismos nacionais e
internacionais para a Bahia, como foi o caso do município de Ouriçangas e, mais recentemente, de Conceição do Coité, Barra
do Choça e Ouriçangas, selecionados como exemplos de estratégia bem sucedida de subprojetos baseados na
participação/condução pelas comunidades (Community-Driven Development) apresentado às autoridades da Ásia, da África,
Índia, dos E.E.U.U. e da Europa e representantes do BIRD.

A principal característica dos Conselhos Municipais de Conceição do Coité, Barra do Choça e Ouriçangas, é a participação
ampla das organizações e instituições do município, na condução do Projeto. Ressalta-se a convivência harmoniosa dentro
dos Conselhos, das diversas forças políticas que compõem a sociedade local, prevalecendo o desejo de contribuir com o
desenvolvimento do município.

Em Conceição do Coité, a ampla participação das organizações e instituições foi potencializada com a introdução da
sistemática de representação regionalizada, o que viabiliza a participação da totalidade das associações comunitárias do
município. O Conselho deu prioridade a ações que dinamizam a atividade econômica e que envolve a maior parte dos
pequenos produtores rurais, ou seja, a cultura da mandioca. Concentrou esforços nessa atividade, ampliando a área produzida,
a produtividade e o processo de beneficiamento, com a produção de subprodutos, a exemplo do beiju, atividade que
intensificou a participação das mulheres nas comunidades produtoras. Ainda em Conceição do Coité, o bom desempenho do
Conselho é também creditado à experiência vivida durante a ultima administração municipal, quando se responsabilizou pela
alocação de recursos viabilizados pela Prefeitura, através de outros programas e projetos.

Em Ouriçangas a oferta de água de boa qualidade para as comunidades rurais, constituiu o foco prioritário de atuação do
Conselho. A implantação de sistemas de abastecimento de água envolveu grande participação comunitária, com destaque
para o processo de gestão dos sistemas pelas comunidades beneficiadas. Essas ações contribuíram muito para o bom
desempenho do Conselho, que estruturou procedimentos de acompanhamento da gestão dos sistemas pelas associações
comunitárias.

Em Barra do Choça, o projeto potencializou um processo de organização iniciado pela Igreja Católica, através da Pastoral da
Terra, que havia desenvolvido um trabalho junto aos pequenos produtores rurais, relacionado com o associativismo.
Inicialmente, o Conselho focalizou as atividades vinculadas com a cultura do café que agrega uma grande quantidade de
pequenos produtores. Por intermédio do PRODUZIR, foram implantados subprojetos destinados ao beneficiamento e
transformação do produto "in natura", com vistas à agregação de valor para competir no mercado, inclusive internacional. Mais
recentemente os membros do Conselho perceberam e têm discutido a necessidade de diversificar a produção agropecuária.
Nesse sentido, atividades como o beneficiamento de leite, a produção de pimenta e o artesanato fazem parte das prioridades
do Conselho.

O sucesso obtido nesses empreendimentos deve-se ao apoio dos gestores públicos das duas ultimas administrações e da
atual, à receptividade por parte dos produtores e das organizações aos processos de capacitação e ao bom desempenho do
Conselho e das associações comunitárias do município. A política de descentralização e de ampla participação estimula o
exercício da cidadania e cria uma consciência associativa. Isso acontece nos municípios citados com razoável grau de
intensidade e em muitos outros de forma menos intensa.




                                                             - 48 -

6.PARCERIAS COM OUTROS PROGRAMAS E PROJETOS

Visando somar recursos de diversas naturezas para atuar nas regiões mais pobres do Estado, o Governo da Bahia propôs a
implementação de uma série de parcerias entre diversas instituições estatais. Dentre elas, a CAR, por intermédio do Produzir,
tornou-se parceira para a implementação do Projeto de Irrigação da Bacia Sedimentar de Tucano, do Programa Cabra Forte,
Projeto de Revitalização da Produção Agrícola da Região Nordeste, do Projeto Terra Fértil e do Programa Luz para Todos.

A nova política já traz resultados expressivos, dos quais destacam-se dentre os mais significativos os registrados pelo Cabra
Forte. Abrangendo 18 municípios do semi-árido baiano, agrupados no pólo de Jaguarari, Remanso e Conceição do Coité, o
Cabra Forte. O Produzir, através das organizações comunitárias, construiu 7.718 cisternas residenciais e 41 barragens,
beneficiando diretamente 12.173 famílias de caprinocultores, com investimento total de R$ 12,3 milhões.

Outra parceria cujas atividades se encontram em fase bastante adiantada é afirmada com o Projeto Terra Fértil, que
contempla 20 municípios da micro região de Irecê. Nos anos 2003 e 2004, os acordos firmados para este projeto resultaram na
celebração de convênios com as organizações comunitárias para a construção de 15 barragens, comprometendo recursos de
mais de R$ 2,2 milhões.

No Projeto de Irrigação da Bacia Sedimentar de Tucano, o Produzir financiou, em 2003/2004, o processo de seleção e
capacitação de 100 pequenos agricultores, bem como a elaboração do Plano de Negócios e Marketing, a aquisição de
equipamentos para a implantação do primeiro módulo irrigado de 150 hectares no município de Tucano e a construção de 100
moradias para as famílias beneficiadas. Esses investimentos totalizaram R$ 1,8 milhões.

O Programa de Revitalização Agrícola na Região Nordeste da Bahia, que envolveu a celebração de convênios com 166
associações comunitárias de 22 municípios, para a aquisição de tratores e implementos agrícolas, representando
investimentos da ordem de R$ 11, 9 milhões e levando benefícios diretos para 4.150 famílias daquela região.

Ainda em 2003/2004, a CAR implantou e está coordenando o Viver Melhor Rural, executado em parceria com a Secretaria de
Educação ­ SEC, da Saúde, SESAB, de Combate à Pobreza e às Desigualdades Sociais, e de Meio Ambiente e Recursos
Hídricos ­ SEMARH. Nos 18 meses de execução, o Viver Melhor Rural, com recursos do Produzir, firmou convênios
promovendo melhorias habitacionais e sanitárias em 2.681 moradias, implantação de 29 sistemas de abastecimento de água,
atendendo a 3.273 domicílios e desenvolvendo seis diferentes projetos de geração de renda com investimentos que
envolveram recursos da ordem de U$ 16,7 milhões, beneficiando 6.700 famílias de 21 municípios baianos.

Cabe ressaltar, também, a parceria da CAR no Programa Luz para Todos, coordenado pelo Ministério de Minas e Energia e
operacionalizado com a participação das Centrais Elétricas Brasileiras S/A, Eletrobrás, governos estaduais e empresas
concessionárias de distribuição de energia elétrica. Este Programa financiou, através do Produzir, 179 subprojetos de
eletrificação, envolvendo investimentos da ordem de R$ 3,7 milhões, através do repasse de recursos para associações
comunitárias.

A meta é atender até o ano de 2008, 360.000 consumidores no Estado da Bahia com investimento da ordem de R$ 1,7
bilhões. Até o momento já foram atendidas cerca de 36.000 famílias proporcionando a elas melhoria na qualidade de vida,
incremento da produção agrícola, aumento da renda.

7.MEIO AMBIENTE

A avaliação dos impactos ambientais no âmbito do Produzir levou em consideração a legislação nas esferas federal, estadual
e as salvaguardas do Banco Mundial. Os subprojetos pleiteados pelas as associações comunitárias foram todos submetidos à
análise ambiental pelos técnicos dos Escritórios Regionais, considerando os possíveis impactos ambientais (verificação
ambiental) e as medidas mitigadoras. Todos os subprojetos com localização em Unidades de Conservação foram passíveis de
licenciamento, com prévia autorização por parte do órgão gestor. As aprovações desses subprojetos pela CAR foram
condicionadas ao licenciamento ambiental dos órgãos estaduais e municipais responsáveis pela administração dos recursos
ambientais.

A gestão dos recursos naturais, em nível da CAR, foi feita pela Comissão Técnica de Garantia Ambiental ­ CTGA, que tem as
seguintes atribuições: encaminhamento ao CRA das solicitações de licenças ambientais; encaminhamento à Secretaria de
Meio Ambiente e Recursos Hídricos ­ SEMARH das dispensas e licenças de outorga de água e licença de supressão vegetal;



                                                            - 49 -

análise de todos os subprojetos do ponto de vista ambiental e recomendação de medidas mitigadoras; e encaminhamento de
outras licenças necessárias.

No sentido de minimizar as dificuldades e reduzir o tempo para a obtenção do Licenciamento Ambiental, da Licença ou
Dispensa de Outorga d'água e da Licença de Supressão de Vegetação, a CAR, através da sua CTGA e dos Escritórios
Regionais, assumiu a tarefa de solicitar aos órgãos ambientais as licenças necessárias, liberando as associações comunitárias
e dando maior agilidade ao processo. Além disso, a CAR negociou com os órgãos ambientais a dispensa de licenciamento
para uma série de projetos considerados de "impacto moderado". Para tanto, foram adotadas as seguintes medidas:
Fortalecimento da equipe técnica da CTGA; Negociação com os órgãos ambientais; Capacitação dos técnicos dos Escritórios
Regionais na elaboração do Relatório de Impacto Ambiental ­ RIF. Durante a execução do Produzir/CAR/CTGA, obteve os
seguintes resultados: (i) Encaminhamento de Licença de Outorga ­ 47 (ii) Encaminhamento de Dispensa de Outorga ­ 303; (iii)
Encaminhamento de Licença Ambiental Simplificada ­ 22; (iv) Encaminhamento de Licença de Supressão Vegetal ­ 20.


8.INCLUSÃO SOCIAL

O acesso do povo indígena e das mulheres aos benefícios do Programa tem se dado na rotina dos trabalhos junto às
comunidades rurais, dos quais eles fazem parte, respeitando-se e atendo-se às suas demandas dentro dos mesmos critérios
exigidos para os demais grupos sociais. No caso das comunidades indígenas, o Produzir tem atuado através de subprojetos
produtivos que estão perfeitamente coerentes com as atividades desenvolvidas por cada uma delas, e os subprojetos de
infra-estrutura têm contribuído, de modo significativo, para a melhoria da qualidade de vida dessas populações. Vale ressaltar
que essa população apresenta grande receptividade ao uso coletivo dos bens financiados, em virtude do sentimento de
solidariedade inerente à sua tradição organizacional e hábitos cultural. A participação da população indígena nos Conselhos
Municipais fica evidente, na medida em que as entidades que lhes representam fazem parte dos conselhos como membros
efetivos. Em relação à inclusão da população indígena, hoje o Produzir atende 21 comunidades, com diferentes subprojetos
de financiamento, com recursos no valor de 572,2 mil reais, beneficiando 1.857 famílias indígenas.

Destacam-se também as experiências exitosas do Produzir com Associações lideradas por mulheres, em várias regiões do
Estado. Hoje a CAR, através do Produzir, recebeu solicitação de projetos de 499 associações lideradas por mulheres, sendo
que uma delas ­ Associação Comunitária da Região de Onça, no município de Conceição do Coité, ficou entre as três
premiadas no Encontro do Nordeste de Experiências Sociais Inovadoras - Prêmio Voz Mulher - 2005, promovido pelo Banco
Mundial, com apoio do BNB, na categoria geração de emprego e renda.

9.EFEITOS E IMPACTOS DO PROGRAMA PRODUZIR

Para a demonstração dos efeitos e impactos do Programa Produzir, foram consideradas, basicamente, as análises recentes do
estudo da Fecamp, que utiliza como parâmetro o perfil sócio-econômico do público, antes e após a implementação do
Programa. O estudo foi feito em uma amostra de 50 municípios e levou em consideração a concentração dos subprojetos de
infra-estrutura, de desenvolvimento social e produtivo implantados pelo Programa.

Os resultados mostram que a maioria dos entrevistados (95%) concordou com a afirmativa de que os subprojetos foram bons
para a comunidade. Esse dado reflete o fato de que, em situações de pobreza extrema, como observado nas comunidades
atendidas pelo Produzir, a captação de benefícios é vista sempre como algo positivo e que deve melhorar suas condições
materiais.

O estudo da Fecamp constatou que as ações do Produzir estão direcionadas às comunidades pobres, em perfeita coerência
com o foco do Programa. Trata-se de comunidades carentes de todos os tipos de infra-estrutura básica (água, energia,
saneamento, etc), e que estão avançando no processo de estruturação social e produtiva.Nas entrevistas, os membros das
associações, dos conselhos e das comunidades demonstraram que as comunidades beneficiadas com subprojetos do Produzir
se sentem satisfeitas, se mobilizam para identificar novas demandas e se sentem confiantes Em relação à melhoria de vida
da população pobre rural, o Produzir conseguiu melhorar a vida de milhares de pessoas, atuando, principalmente, na área de
infraestrutura, em coerência com as necessidades demandadas pelas associações comunitárias: do total de 14,6 mil de
subprojetos encaminhados à CAR, 69% são de infraestrutura, principalmente de abastecimento de água, energia elétrica e
solar, melhorias viárias, pontes, entre outros. No que diz respeito ao conforto e saúde familiar o Produzir está proporcionando
o fornecimento de água e melhoria das condições sanitárias para, aproximadamente, 88 mil famílias, através do financiamento
de 813 subprojetos de abastecimento de água e 596 de instalações sanitárias residenciais.



                                                             - 50 -

Quanto à melhoria da renda, o Programa permitiu o aumento da renda de cerca de 110 mil famílias, mediante o financiamento
de 831 subprojetos de natureza produtiva, dos quais 588 de mecanização agrícola, 86 casas de farinha, 110 pequenas
agroindústrias, entre outros. É certo afirmar que nas localidades e municípios onde o Produzir vem atuando, a           própria
estratégia metodológica do Programa, que promove a interação solidária dos indivíduos em todas as etapas de
desenvolvimento das ações, estimula, amplia e fortalece o capital social.

Além das interações no nível da comunidade, necessárias para definir e construir os subprojetos, a participação nos conselhos
municipais e a articulação com outros órgãos e entidades do município, da região e até mesmo do Estado, promovem a
formação de capital social no nível que extrapola, invariavelmente, a comunidade rural. Ou seja, a experiência na execução e
gestão de subprojetos dota as lideranças das associações comunitárias de um conjunto de habilidades e informações sobre
experiências e programas, práticas de tomada de decisão, mecanismos de realização de compras, processos licitatórios e de
prestação de contas, entre outros, que são processos que se acumulam como experiência e são formadores de capital social.
Além do que, o exemplo de uma associação bem sucedida ­ dotada de algum nível de capital social, capaz de mobilizar os
membros da comunidade em função de um objetivo coletivo ­ tende a produzir efeitos além das fronteiras comunitárias e
estimula as comunidades vizinhas a se organizarem e superarem suas dificuldades.

É nesta perspectiva que a execução do Produzir vem trazendo resultados positivos em relação à formação de capital social:
formando conselhos municipais, estimulando o associativismo, criando comissões de trabalho, demandando articulação com
os diversos poderes do Estado e segmentos da sociedade civil.


10.EXPERIÊNCIAS, DIFICULDADES E LIÇÕES

As lições aprendidas mais importantes dizem respeito a questões relativas ao processo de organização comunitária. Onde as
estratégias do Projeto são colocadas em pratica, percebe-se um melhor desempenho no combate à pobreza rural. E isso tem
relação com a postura de alguns gestores públicos que tiveram uma maior compreensão a respeito do Projeto, interagindo com
as organizações (Associações e Conselhos), num esquema de parceria, cujos resultados são os avanços no processo de
organização e autonomia dos conselhos e associações comunitárias.

O estabelecimento de parcerias com instituições públicas e privadas com o objetivo de integrar as ações do Projeto, com as
ações de outros órgãos, que operam no âmbito local, indicam um caminho para a complementaridade das ações e
diversificação de conteúdos. A experiência constatou que a eliminação da pobreza depende de ações articuladas em varias
frentes, que envolvam muito mais recursos e organizações governamentais e da sociedade civil. A iniciativa do Estado da
Bahia em integrar o projeto a outros Programas e Projetos do Estado certamente irá potencializar os esforços de combate à
pobreza. Os processos de estruturação/reestruturação de Conselhos Municipais e de elaboração de planos de investimentos
municipais constituem momentos importantes de capacitação e, portanto, de formação e desenvolvimento de capital social. A
metodologia utilizada nesses processos articula os distintos agentes participantes. O modelo de gestão adotado pelo Projeto
tem propiciado avanços no fortalecimento da organização e do capital social.

10.2. Projetos Especiais: Buscando imprimir uma nova dinâmica aos programas do Governo, o Produzir estabeleceu
parcerias com instituições governamentais e da iniciativa privada, unindo esforços e racionalizando o uso do recurso público na
implementação de importantes programas de desenvolvimento, que têm como o foco o combate à pobreza e às desigualdades
sociais. A experiência técnica e o envolvimento de diversos órgãos, governamentais e não governamentais, foram importantes
para garantir o envolvimento dos beneficiários, a sustentabilidade dos projetos, favorecendo assim a sinergia dos diferentes
atores para o desenvolvimento das ações. As lições deixadas pelos programas especiais são as seguintes: (i) Otimiza a
aplicação dos recursos do Projeto, visto que os mesmos são oriundos de diversas instituições parceiras; (ii) Permite uma ação
global na problemática de redução da pobreza; (iii) Favorece a criação de canais de comunicação para os beneficiários,
visando a busca de recursos em outras áreas; e (iv) Evita-se a superposição de ações. As dificuldades estão relacionadas a
seguir: (i) Adequação à metodologia de trabalho de cada instituição; (ii) Compatibilização dos diversos modelos de intervenção;
(iii) Inexperiência das instituições, com relação ao trabalho integrado.

10.3. Subprojetos Produtivos : No contexto dos subprojetos produtivos, do Produzir, podem ser citados os de mecanização
agrícola, casa de farinha, os de beneficiamento e processamento de produtos agrícolas, beneficiamento de café e leite como
aqueles que apresentam melhores resultados em termos de gestão e operacionalização. Em conjunto esses subprojetos
correspondem a aproximadamente 82% do total dos projetos produtivos financiados pelo Projeto. Os subprojetos de



                                                               - 51 -

mecanização agrícola, isoladamente representam cerca de 71% dos subprojetos financiados, destacando-se como o de maior
impacto sobre a renda das famílias. Os casos de sucesso na forma de gestão desses subprojetos são aqueles em que há uma
administração criteriosa por parte do presidente da associação, tanto em relação a utilização do trator, quanto na orientação da
comunidade, o que tem permitido fazer uso adequado dos recursos financeiros que o equipamento é capaz de gerar.

No que diz respeito aos subprojetos produtivos, voltados para o consumo familiar, sobretudo as casas de farinha, que
representam cerca de 10% do total dos produtivos, a gestão geralmente é feita através da adoção dos seguintes
procedimentos: estabelecimento de critérios para seleção de usuários e normas para utilização dos equipamentos; e formação
de uma comissão de apoio à gestão e operação, que participa da definição da taxa de utilização, dos critérios de cobrança, e
prestação de contas aos associados.

Com relação aos subprojetos produtivos voltados para o mercado e que requerem uma estrutura gestão de empresarial, a sua
operacionalização é bem mais complexa em diversos aspectos: dificuldades na comercialização, tanto do ponto de vista do
mercado produtor, quanto do consumidor; e baixos níveis de escolaridade entre os responsáveis pela gestão, tendo em vista
que estes projetos demandam informações sobre a disponibilidade de matéria prima, estimativa de receitas e despesas, dentre
outros aspectos que envolvem toda a estrutura de comercialização. Os exemplos desses subprojetos são as oficinas de corte
e costura, fábrica de doces, processadoras de polpa de frutas, dentre outros.


11.CONSIDERAÇÕES FINAIS

Ao longo dos anos de sua execução, mais especificamente nos últimos quatro anos, o Produzir vem assumindo o contorno
ditado pela dinâmica da realidade, cujo traço mais expressivo é a mudança do papel dos conselhos municipais: inicialmente
criados por exigência de uma estratégia metodológica do Produzir, grande parte deles vêm ampliando os limites do Projeto e
começam a se constituir em fóruns de discussão e decisão das políticas municipais, com a nova denominação de Conselhos
de Desenvolvimento Municipal. Esta governança compartilhada entre poder executivo e sociedade civil talvez seja o resultado
mais significativo do Produzir, embora não seja a único. Além das mudanças qualitativas na vida de milhares de famílias
beneficiadas com os subprojetos comunitários, a ocorrência de ações coletivas demandada pelo Programa, amplia e fortalece
o capital social das comunidades e dos municípios onde o Projeto se instalou.

É importante assinalar a iniciativa da Bahia em integrar o Produzir a outros Programas e Projetos do Estado, para que, numa
ação articulada, potencialize os esforços de combate à pobreza A experiência constatou que um impacto de maior envergadura
depende de ações articuladas em várias frentes, que envolvem muito mais recursos e organizações governamentais:
educação, infra-estrutura de transporte, saneamento, saúde, etc. Este modelo descentralizado e integrado de política pública
para alívio da pobreza rural adotado pela Bahia, foi classificado entre as experiências finalistas da premiação anual do
Programa Gestão Pública e Cidadania, iniciativa da Fundação Getúlio Vargas/SP e Ford Foundation, em 2004, que
contemplou as mais diversas práticas e experiências inovadoras realizadas por organismos governamentais e não
governamentais de todo o Pais.




                                                            - 52 -

- 53 -

