Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                                    y
Report No. 291lb-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM COORDINATION PROJECT
(SINSC)
December 2, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
As of 6/30/79 1/
Currency Unit                  =      Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
Cr$1.00   100 centavos         =      US$0.0400
US$1.00                        =      Cr$25.00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGC            =    Automatic Generation Control
BNDE           =    Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico
CIEEB          =    Companhia Auxiliar de Empresas Eletricas Brasileiras
CBEE           =    Companhia Brasileira de Energia Eletrica
cCOI           =    Comite Coordenador de Operacao Interligada
CCON           =    Comite Coordenador de Operacao do Nordeste
CEB            =    Companhia de Eletricidade de Brasilia
CEEE           =    Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica
CELESC               Centrais Eletricas de Santa Catarina
CELG           =    Centrais Eletricas de Goias S.A.
CELPE          =    Companhia de Eletricidade de Pernambuco
CEMAT          =    Centrais Eletricas Matogrossenses S.A.
CEMIG          =    Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais S.A.
CEPEL                Centro de Pesquisa de Eletricidade
CESP           =    Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo S.A.
CHESF          =    Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco
COC            =    Comissao de Coordenacao
COELBA         =    Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado da Bahia
COELCE         =    Companhia de Eletricidade do Ceara
COIMP          =    Comite de Implantacao
COPEL                Companhia Paranaense de Energia
COS            =    Centro de Operacao de Sistema
CPFL           =    Companhia Paulista de Forca e Luz
CSC            =    Centro de Supervisao e Coordenacao
DACS           =    Data Acquisition and Control System
DNAEE           =    Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica
ELETROBRAS     =    Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A.
ELETRONORTE    =    Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil S.A.
ELETROSUL      =    Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil S.A.
EM             =    Energy Management
ESCELSA        =    Espirito Santo Centrais Eletricas S.A.
FURNAS         =    Furnas Centrais Eletricas S.A.
GCOI           =    Grupo Coordenador para Operacao Interligada
GERP           =    Gerencia do Projeto
GGF            =    Global Guarantee Fund
GPE            =    Grupo de Projeto Especifico
IDB            =    Inter American Development Bank
LIGHT          =    LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade S.A.
OPE            =    Orcamento Pluriannual de Eletricidade
1/   The Brazilian Government follows a policy of frequent exchange rate
adjustment. Dollar equivalent figures in this report are based on the
June 1979 rate unless otherwise indicated.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Abbreviations and Acronyms (Cont'd)
RTSS           =    Real-Time Supervision System
SCADA               Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SINSC          =    Sistema Nacional de Supervisao e Coordinacao da
Operacao Interligada
SSC            =    Secretaria de Supervisao e Coordinacao
UPS            =    Uninterruptible Power Supply
UNITS AND MEASURES
kW             =    Kilowatt = 103 watt
MW             =    Megawatt (103 kW)
kWh            =    Kilowatt hour = 103 watt hour
GWh            =    Gigawatt hour (106 kWh)
TWh            =    1000 Gigawatt hour = 109 kWh
kV             =    Kilovolt (103 volts)
kVA            =    Kilovolt - ampere
MVA            =    Megavolt - ampere (103 kVA)
km                  Kilometer (0.6214 mile)
average MW          annual MWh/8760h
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ELECTRIC  POWER  SYSTaL  COORDINATION  PROJECT
(SINSC)
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.    THE  ENERGY AND  POWER  SECTORS
A.   Energy Supply and Demand ..... ...............                                             1
Energy Demand ............. .                                                           1
Energy  Supply  .................................... 0 ...............                   I
-   Oil  ...........             .....................................                   I
-   Coal         .............................1.................. 
- Hydro                 ................................                                 2
-   Nuclear  ........ .............................................                      2
-   Other  Energy  Sources  ...............................                              2
B.     The  Power  Sector  ......................................                               3
Bank Participation  in  the  Power  Sector  ................                             3
Organization  of  the Power  Sector  ......................                             3
Electricity  Tariffs  ...................................                               4
Existing Facilities .......                                                              7
Electric  Energy  Consumption  ...........................                               7
Access  to  Service  and Rural  Electrification                     ............         7
Sector  Development  . .................................. .                             8
Sector Expansion Program  ..............................                                8
2.     THE  BORROWER AND  THE  BENEFICIARY
The Borrower               ........................... .................                       10
Coordination  of  Operations  of  Electric  Power  Facilities  ....                            11
The Beneficiary  ........... .. .   .............         ... . .................              13
Companhia Hidro  Eletrica  do  Sao  Francisco  (CHESF)  ..........                             13
Organization            ........................            .......................            13
Management  System  .................. .........................                               14
Bank  Involvement           .............           ..............................             14
CHESF's Power Market  .....................    ..................                              14
Participation  in  Interconnected  Operation  ..................                               15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. Philip Owusu and Helmut Wieseman which visited Brazil in September/
October  1979  and  a  supplemental  visit  by Mr.  Philip  Owusu  in November/
December 1979.



Table of contents (Continued)
Page No.
3.   THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program for a National System for Supervision and
Control of Interconnected Operations ....................   .    16
Project Selection and Content ..............................    17
Project Cost  .... ......... -                       .*...  ..    19
Amount of Loan  ............I........... .... ..................    21
Project Implementation .. - ..... ....   .... . .  ....... ........    21
Procurement ....... o      ........................................    231
Retroactive Financing ......       ....................... .........    24
Disbursement .o...........................................    24
Environment . ......................... ............. .   ....    25
Project Risks ...... .......................... . ............    25
4.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Introduction               ..................--............        26
Least Cost Solution ............. .  -......... --.........    26
Economic Benefits ...o  ....................           .. ...    27
5.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction .....................     ........... ....    ..    28
ELETROBRAS ................. . .............................       28
CHESF                           .... 30
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Recommendation .... --        ....... ........  ..............    32
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 2.1  -  Eletrobras Organization Chart ....       ............   33
Annex 2.2  -  CHESF Organization Chart ............     o.......   34
Annex 3.1  -  Control Areas of the Brazil Interconnected
Power System. .......   o............              35
Annex 3.2  -  Technical Project Details ................    .     .    36
Annex 3.3  -  Summary Project Cost Estimate ..... o   ..........   39
Annex 3.4  -  Detailed Project Cost Estimate and Disbursement
Schedule, ELETROBRAS Subproject .-       .........   40
Annex 3.5  -  Detailed Project Cost and Disbursement Schedule
of CHESF Subproject ................... . . ....   41
Annex 3.6  -  Implementation Schedule of ELETROBRAS Subproject  42
Annex 3.7  -  CHESF Implementation Schedule .... o ..........    43
Annex 3.8  -  Configuration of SINSC .....            ............    44



- iii -
Table of contents (Continued)
Page No.
Annex 5.1  - ELETROBRAS Financial Indicators 1976-1986 ....     45
Annex 5.2  - ELETROBRAS Sources and Uses of Funds 1979-86 .     46
Annex 5.3 - ELETROBRAS Actual and Forecast Income Statements
1976-1986 .........................             47
Annex 5.4 - ELETROBRAS Balance Sheets 1976-86 .... ........     48
Annex 5.5 - CHESF Financial Indicators ...................      49
Annex 5.6 - CHESF Sources and Application of Funds .......      50
Annex 5.7  - CHESF Income Statement 1976-86 ....    ...........  51
Annex 5.8  - CHESF Forecast Cost of Service ....    ...........  52
Annex 5.9  - CHESF Balance Sheets 1976-86 ..0    ..............  53
EXHIBIT A
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File.      54






BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM COORDINATION PROJECT
1. THE ENERGY AMD POWER SECTORS
A. Energy Supply and Demand
Energy Demand
1.01       The estimated total gross consumption of energy in Brazil in 1979
was 116.5 million T.o.e. (0.97 T.o.e. per capita, compared to about 0.89
T.o.e. per capita for Costa Rica and 1.6 T.o.e. for Mexico)l/ and it is
expected to grow at about 6% per annum in the next 5 years, reaching about
1.19 T.o.e. per capita in 1985. Oil products account for about 42% of the
national energy consumption, mineral coal, wood products and wastes 32% and
hydroelectricity 26%. In 1979, generation of electric energy from all primary
sources is estimated to have been 122,000 GWh; its annual rate of growth since
1974 has been 12% with per capita consumption growing from 550 kWh in 1974 to
1,000 kWkh in 1979.
Energy Supply
Oil
1.02       Brazil's proven oil reserves are limited.  Present domestic produc-
tion of crude covers only 15% of the country's requirements and is concen-
trated in the Northeastern region. To increase domestic production, Government
accelerated exploration in 1977 by granting risk type contracts to private
firms, ending government monopoly in this field. Petroleum's share of the
energy supply has been reduced somewhat by hydroelectricity under the vast
program of construction of hydro plants. However, a decrease in use of
traditional sources, especially wood, coupled with the growth in overall
demand, could produce a supply gap. Unless satisfactory results are obtained
in the oil exploration program, this gap may need to be covered through
increased petroleum imports. 2/ In order to reduce the foreseen gap, Govern-
ment is inducing the use of other energy sources, through fiscal incentives
for the production of fuel alcohol and exploitation of coal.
Coal
1.03       Total coal reserves are estimated at 15.8 billion tons, and most
of it is located in the Southern region, primarily in the states of
1/   T.o.e.:  tons of oil equivalent, approximately 10  kcal.  Data source:
Balance Energetico Macional, 1978 (Ministry of Mines and Energy).
2/   Government projections to 1987 show an average yearly growth of about
4% in petroleum imports with a decrease of about 12% (from 42% to 34%) in
its proportion of total energy utilization--Balance Energetico Nacional,
1978 (Ministry of Mines and Energy).



Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul. Coal represents about 4% of the
country's energy supply. In addition to construction of coal-fired thermal
plants, Government is also encouraging substitution of coal for other fuels
in industrial boilers; the cement industry is particularly suitable in this
fuel substitution and some of these plants are currently being converted--coal
ashes are also an important ingredient in cement. Through the incentives for
higher use of coal, Government expects a 50% increase by 1987 of coal's share
in the energy supply.
Hydro
1.04      Brazil has vast water resources with a potential for hydroelectric
development estimated at about 200,000 MW, of which only about 24,100 MW have
been utilized. An additional 38,600 MW are scheduled to be in operation by
1990. Many watersheds could be developed economically but they are relatively
remote from the demand centers. When there are differences in regional hydro-
logical regimes in a country, electrical interconnections result in a reduction
in installed capacity and reduced use of fossil fuels for power generation.
This diversity exists between the Southern and Southeastern regions and a high
voltage interconnection is under construction and being financed with Loan
1343-BR to ELETROSUL. Other electrical interconnections are being considered
by sector authorities leading towards a least cost intraregional program. The
recent loan to ELETROSUL (Loan 1895-BR) will finance further expansion of
eletrical interconnections in the South.
Nuclear
1.05      About 3,000 MW of nuclear generating capacity is scheduled for
1985 operation in the Southeastern region, the largest demand center in the
country. The first unit of 625 MW, supplied by Westinghouse (USA), is ex-
pected to operate in 1981. The Brazil-Federal Republic of Germany agreement
of June 27, 1975 provides for the supply of an additional 2,400 MW in nuclear
plants and a Brazilian option for six additional 1,200 MW units.
Other Energy Sources
1.06      With respect to other energy sources firewood, charcoal and sugar-
cane bagasse are also used but not for electricity production for public
service. Firewood is used only in some small industries and for cooking in
rural and some urban low income households. Charcoal is also used for cooking
and in blast furnaces. Bagasse is burned to produce steam in sugar milling
and in the distillation of alcohol. These fuels represent about a quarter of
Brazil's energy utilization and would probably not increase. Other sources
known to exist in Brazil include natural gas, with small reserves in North-
eastern fields for local supply. There are few sites for tidal energy devel-
opment, and geothermal fields have not yet been discovered. Brazil has been
active in exploring alternative energy sources; the largest endeavor is the
use of alcohol as fuel in internal combustion engines. In the power sector,
tests are being conducted on wind-driven generators.



- 3 -
B. The Power Sector
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
1.07      Since 1948 the Bank has made 34 loans to the Brazilian power sector
amounting to about US$1.6 billion. Most have been for hydroelectric plants
and associated transmission facilities in the Southeastern and Southern regions.
Bank participation has contributed to sector organization and planning and
facilitated foreign commercial financing of the sector. The Bank also assisted
the Government in its effort to implement a tariff policy which has enabled
the sector to contribute a considerable proportion of the funds required for
sector investments. Project performance audit reports on power-plant 1/ and
distribution-system 2/ projects have been distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors. These reports conclude that, despite construction delays and cost
overruns, the projects were substantially successful. The latest report
points to the recent inadequacy of tariffs.
1.08      The most recent loans have been for transmission and distribution
projects: Loan 1895-BR of October 1980 to ELETROSUL to finance development
of its high voltage transmission system; Loan 1824-BR of April 1980 to
Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica (CEEE), to finance the expansion of
its subtransmission and distribution system; Loan 1721-BR to COPEL to finance
its 1980-83 distribution expansion program, May 1979; Loan 1538-BR to ELETROBRAS
for the system expansion programs of three state-owned utilities in the South-
eastern and southern regions, May 1978; Loan 1343-BR to ELETROSUL for its
high voltage transmission expansion program, February 1977; Loan 1300-BR to
ELETROBRAS to finance part of the 1976-79 transmission and distribution expan-
sion programs of three northeastern utilities, August 1976; and Loan 1257-BR
to COPEL for its 1976-79 distribution expansion program, May 1976.
Organization of the Power Sector
1.09      Though complex and one of the largest in the world, the electric
sector is well organized and the applicable policies have generally been well
formulated and applied. Decree 68,204 of June 7, 1967 established the current
sector organization under which the Departmento Nacional de Aguas e Energia
Eletrica (DNAEE) performs regulatory functions, grants licenses for generating
plants, assigns concessions, sets tariffs (after approval by the Ministry of
Planning) and approves expansion plans. Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras
(ELETROBRAS), a utility holding company, administers public funds for use by
its subsidiaries and state-owned utilities, coordinates external borrowings,
expansion plans for major generating and transmission facilities, and coordi-
nates the operation of the interconnected electric power system in the country.
1/   Loan 404-BR (Sec. M 77-532 of June 28, 1977); Loans 442-BR and 566-BR
(Sec. M 78-34 of January 13, 1978); and Loan 728-BR (Sec. M 79-756 of
October 23, 1979).
2/   Loans 475/476/477 and 478-BR (Sec. M 75-646 of September 4, 1975).



- 4 -
1.10      The five geographical regions are served by ELETROBRAS' subsidiaries
(bulk suppliers), in conjunction with state-owned utilities (principally in
distribution) as follows: Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil (ELETRONORTE)
for the North and part of the Central-West; Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao
Francisco (CHESF) for the Northeast; Furnas-Centrais Eletricas (FURNAS) for
the Southeast and part of the Central-West; and Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil (ELETROSUL) for the South. A joint Brazil-Paraguay authority (Itaipu
Binacional) has responsibility for the Itaipu Hydroelectric project under
construction on the Parana River where it defines the border between the two
countries. In January 1979, the Federal Government, through ELETROBRAS,
acquired from Brascan Ltd. of Canada about 83% ownership of LIGHT - Servicos
de Eletricidade S.A. (LIGHT), the electric power distribution company serving
the cities of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo.
1.11      Government guidelines contained in the 1967 decree (para. 1.09)
promote concentration of public electricity services in the individual states
into single state-owned utilities. The resulting action produced mergers and
acquisitions by the major state-owned companies of most municipal and privately
owned utilities. The main existing state-owned utilities, ranked by value of
assets, are: Centrais Eletricas de Sao Paulo (CESP); Centrais Eletricas de
Minas Gerais (CEMIG); Companhia Paranaense de Energia Eletrica (COPEL);
Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica (CEEE) - Rio Grande do Sul; Centrais
Eletricas de Santa Catarina (CELESC); Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado da
Eahia (COELBA); Companhia de Eletricidade de Pernambuco (CELPE); and Companhia
de Eletricidade do Ceara (COELCE). All these utilities have been borrowers or
beneficiaries under past Bank loans.
Electricity Tariffs
1.12      Consumer bills contain the following charges:
A.   The tariff, which on a nationwide basis, provides about 78% of
revenues collected from consumers. According to the current legis-
lation, these charges should be set at levels to cover:
(a) operation, maintenance and administrative expenses;
(b) taxes other than for income (mainly property taxes);
(c) straight line depreciation of average gross revalued fixed
assets in operation;
(d)  reversion (federal tax of up to 5% of assets in operation) to
fund loans to concessionaires for facility expansion, compensa-
tion of private utilities for acquisition of their assets, and
the Global Guarantee Fund--a tariff equalization facility; and
(e) a legal return (normally between 10 and 12%) on remunerable
investment (net average plant in service plus an allowance for
working capital).
B.   The sole tax on residential, commercial and small industrial 1/
consumer bills, which provides about 12% of sector revenues. Forty
1/   Industries using less than 2,000 kWh per month.



- 5 -
percent (40%) from this source goes to federal sector agencies,
fifty percent (50%) to state and federal district utilities, and
ten percent (10%) to municipal utilities; and
C.   The Compulsory Loan (10% of revenues), an obligatory investment
scheme under which industrial consumers using more than 2,000 kWh
per month acquire ELETROBRAS bonds (20-year maturity yielding 6%
annual interest and revalued through monetary adjustments).
Since 1966, annual revaluation of assets used as a basis to determine remu-
nerable investment, is mandatory. Currently, assets are adjusted monthly
for monetary correction in accordance with changes in the ORTN index (the
monetary correction index applied to Government bonds). In the past, this
index was computed on the basis of past inflation and, though generally
lagging slightly behind inflation, movements in the ORTN index roughly
corresponded to general price movements. Since 1977, however, the cumulative
ORTN adjustment has only been 55% of inflation as the Government has been
limiting ORTN corrections as part of a strategy to combat inflation. 1/
As a result, there has been an erosion of the asset base on which the sector's
remuneration is calculated. The Government has recently announced that its
policy to limit ORTN corrections to arbitrary ceilings would be discontinued,
and that beginning in 1981 ORTN would be adjusted so as to follow closely
the movement of the national consumer price index. This should result in
more realistic asset revaluation in the future. The Bank is carrying on a
close dialogue with the Government on this issue.
1.13      In 1973 DNAEE initiated application of a policy to reduce regional
tariff inequalities in order to promote a more balanced economic development.
By 1976, with minor exceptions, average tariff levels had been equalized. The
Global Guarantee Fund (GGF) is used in the tariff equalization process to
supplement earnings of eligible utilities, allowing them to obtain a return
on remunerable assets of up to 10%. The GGF is financed through a surcharge
of up to 2% on assets in operation of all the utilities. DNAEE has used its
control over the GGF to encourage improved performance by participating
utilities. To be eligible for transfers from the Fund, utilities are required
to: (i) have earned less than the legal minimum 10% return on remunerable
investment; (ii) to have a valid agreement with the government of the state
in which they operate for the payment of all bills in arrears by the state
government agencies; and (iii) when owned by the federal, state or municipal
governments, and these have assumed a legal obligation to reinvest their
dividends into the utility, to have had all such dividends reinvested.
1.14      The absence of adequate tariff increases over the past four years,
due mainly to Government's measures to curb inflation, has led to erosion of
sector revenues, causing utilities to rely on increasingly costly borrowings
to finance the sector's massive investment program. A recent (1979) study
completed by ELETROBRAS and DNAEE showed that the sector would face serious
financial difficulties if Government fails to raise tariffs to allow utilities
to earn the minimum 10% return on remunerable investment as provided for in
sector legislation. Following several Bank representations to Government on
this matter, tariffs were raised by 55% on December 1, 1979, after two other
1/   1980 inflation is estimated at 100% while the ORTN correction will be
only 50%.



increases in the same year of 37% and 12%, respectively.  In spite of these
increases, the sector's remuneration in 1979 has been estimated by DNAEE at
8.3% 1/. By mid-November, tariffs had been increased by a further 16% in
May and 20% in August. The Bank has obtained assurances from Government
that it will: (i) allow utilities that are Bank borrowers to recover, during
the period 1981-1983, any shortfall in remuneration incurred before 1980 and
further that shortfalls would be revalued i.e. maintained in real terms; and
(ii) allow these utilities to earn the 10% return in 1980 and, in case this
intent is not entirely met recover any shortfall in that year in the next three
years. Current (mid-November) estimates indicate that sector remuneration in
1980 will be about 6.2%, based on currently used revaluation methods and
official estimates of increases in the national treasury-bond index (ORTN) for
the rest of the year.  Sector tariff policy for 1981 and beyond is currently
being discussed with Government in connection with power projects now being
prepared.
1.15      Under previous loans, the utilities involved were required to
maintain their revenues, including transfers from the GGF, at levels consis-
tent with sound financial practice and in conformance with sector legislation.
Under existing agreements with the Bank, Government confirmed the Bank's
understanding that the utilities' revenues should cover the cost of providing
electricity service and that their return on remunerable investment not be
lower than 10%. Utilities' revenues have deteriorated in the last four years
mainly due to inadequate tariff increases and after DNAEE: (i) redefined
"remunerable investment," effectively lowering the rate base; (ii) disapproved
some operating expenses; and (iii) used more liberally a Compensation Account,
which has the effect of deferring to future years revenues needed to cover
current expenses. In relation to the recent loan to CEEE, Government agreed
to (i) require DNAEE to allow the concessionaires a reasonable period to
reduce their operating costs whenever DNAEE proposes not to recognize such
costs in connection with tariff setting; (ii) require DNAEE to exchange views
with the Bank on the foregoing and to inform the Bank of any changes in the
criteria used to determine the acceptability of concessionaires service costs;
and (iii) require DNAEE to inform the Bank within 30 days of any decision on
the levels of electricity rates to be allowed to concessionaires. With
respect to operating expenses, DNAEE agreed in connection with the CEEE loan,
to complete sector efficiency investment study by June 30, 1981. This study
would contain recommendations on the basis to be used by DNAEE in assessing
expenses.
1.16      As is usual with loans to Brazilian power utilities the beneficiary
of the loan, Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco (CHESF), agreed to
maintain its earnings (including transfers from the GGF) at levels consistent
with sound financial public utility practices and in accordance with existing
legislation. CHESF also agreed to maintain its eligibility under norms
prescribed by DNAEE in the event it requires transfers from the GGF. The
Government confirmed the usual understanding that DNAEE would allow CHESF a
rate of return on remunerable assets not less than 10 percent. The Government
confirmed, also, that beginning in 1981 no part of the 10% return would be
deferred to future years.
1/   Information for some companies has not yet been supplied to DNAEE.



- 7 -
1.17      Before 1976, sector legislation enabled most of the Brazilian
utilities to attain a reasonable return on invested capital and allowed
them to finance a considerable share of sector investments. Present tariffs
also contain generally appropriate features such as separate demand and energy
rates for ind-.trial and commercial consumers, discounts to encourage large
industrial consumers to accept supply at higher voltages, and life-line rates
for rural and minimum residential consumption. However, the tariffs do not
provide for differentiation between peak and off-peak rates, and the equaliza-
tion feature warrants reassessment. UTnder provisions of Loan 1300-BR, DNAEE,
with the assistance of Electricite de France, completed in March 1979 a study
of bulk supply tariffs based on marginal costs. The principal conclusions
drawn from the study were: (i) tariffs are below marginal costs; (ii) incor-
poration in the tariff of components reflecting variations in seasonal and
daily demands has economic merit; (iii) tariff structure needs modifications,
particularly with respect to energy (kWh) and capacity (kW) charges--the
former's proportion should be higher; and (iv) additional studies should be
made on generation, transmission, and distribution system costs, customer
demand characteristics, and application of marginal pricing for bulk supply.
Terms of reference for the recommended additional studies have been prepared
by DNAEE and approved by the Bank; work on the studies has already started.
The foreign expenditures associated with these studies would be financed by
the proposed loan. A power sector memorandum, currently under preparation
will discuss progress on these recommendations in detail.
Existing Facilities
1.18      By the end of 1979 the power sector had about 28,400 MW of installed
generating capacity of which about 85% was in hydroelectric stations and the
remainder in thermal plants (one-third in oil-fired steam units, about 15% in
coal-fired units and the remainder in diesel internal combustion and gas
turbine units). The high voltage transmission system contains about 34,000
circuit-km at voltages ranging from 230 to 500 kV.
Electric Energy Consumption
1.19      The consumption of electric power and other energy resources in
Brazil is closely linked with economic activity. The southern and southeastern
regions, where most of the country's agricultural and industrial production
takes place, used in 1979 about 80% of all primary energy. The southeastern
region, with 42% of Brazil's population accounted for about 71% of the total
electric energy utilized in the country in 1979. The southern region, with
18% of the population utilized 12%. In the last five years, electricity
generation in the southeastern and southern regions grew at 11% p.a. and
15% p.a. respectively.
Access to Service and Rural Electrification
1.20      About 80% of Brazil's urban population is receiving electricity
service.  However, the number of people receiving this service in the rural
areas, where about 40% of the population lives, is very low. Government is
promoting expansion of subtransmission and distribution facilities to provide
electricity service to a higher proportion of the population, particularly in
rural areas.



- 8 -
1.21      Rural electrification on a national level was started in 1970 when
the Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria, a self-governing
agency attached to the Ministry of Agriculture, was made responsible for the
planning, promotion and control of rural electrification through consumer
cooperatives. Progress, however, was slow (4 to 5 thousand customers/year)
and in 1974, ELETROBRAS created a rural electrification department to comple-
ment the Ministry of Agriculture's activities. ELETROBRAS' approach to rural
electrification has been that of financing distribution networks in rural
areas close to existing lines. It does not finance household wiring or con-
nection fees. ELETROBRAS finances 50 to 80% of the cost of individual rural
electrification projects at an interest rate of 12% (principal not subject
to monetary correction) with 15 years maturity including a grace period of 5
years. This results in a large subsidy given inflation rates much in excess
of the interest rate charged. The remaining cost is borne by utilities or by
other consumers. The Ministry of Agriculture's program (which has been
assisted by two Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) operations totalling
US$84.4 million, including US$68.7 million of funds provided on concessionary
terms) grants similar terms to participating rural electrification cooperatives.
1.22      About 43,000 rural cooperatives, individual households and other
customers (about 200,000 people) were connected in 1978 through ELETROBRAS-
assisted programs at a total cost of about US$100 million. Of these new
customers, about 44% were located in Southeastern region and 43% in the South.
Over the period 1979-1981 ELETROBRAS expects to participate in projects
estimated at about US$570 million, and provide service to about 160,000 new
rural connections (45% in the Southeast, 32% in the South, 3% in the Central-
West, 19% in the Northeast and 1% in the North), thereby providing service to
about 800,000 people.
Sector Development
1.23      No constraints have been observed in sector organization that
could adversely affect continued sector development. The high level of
investment required in the sector (about 9% of the country's gross domestic
capital formation) and the Government's present policy of limiting public
sector investments as part of the program to control inflation may, on the
other hand, affect future sector investment programs. In connection with Loan
1538-BR, ELETROBRAS agreed to prepare by the end of 1979 a long term plan for
the expansion of the Brazilian power sector up to the year 2000. This plan
was to be based on an integrated perspective of the country's long term power
requirements and was to give due consideration to economy and efficiency.
ELETROBRAS has now prepared a plan ("Plano '95") specifying the plant to be
installed up to 1995. Bank staff has reviewed the plan and concluded that it
does not appear to meet the objectives envisaged by the Bank. The Bank is
continuing the dialog with the Brazilians on the matter. The national electric
power supervision and control system, of which the proposed project is a part,
is expected to provide a data base which can be used to enhance power system
planning. ELETROBRAS has agreed to (i) continue to improve the methodology
it uses in its planning efforts; (ii) complement the "Plano '95" with analyses
of alternative development sequences by the end of 1981; and (iii) continue to
exchange views with the Bank on this subject.



-9-
Sector Expansion Program
1.24      The Brazilian power sector expansion program during the project's
execution is based on the "Plano '95" referred to in the preceding paragraph.
"Plano '95" assumed that during the 1980-1985 execution period of the project,
electricity demand will continue to grow at about the 12.4 percent annual
growth rate achieved during the past five years, which is reasonable. To
meet this demand forecast during the project period, the plan envisages the
addition of the following principal electric power facilities during 1980-85:
about 19,400 MW of hydropower plant, 625 MW of nuclear power plant, and about
600 MW of other thermal plant at an estimated cost for additional generation
of about US$19.7 billion equivalent (in constant June 1979 prices); and
Extra-High-Voltage Direct Current (EHV-DC) transmission system of two + 600 kV
lines from Itaipu parallel with a 750 kV EHV/Alternating Current (EHV-AC)
transmission system to the Sao Paulo area; expansion of the existing trans-
mission networks at 230 kV and above at an estimated cost for additional
transmission of about US$10.3 billion equivalent (in constant June 1979
prices); and distribution expansion amounting to US$5.3 billion equivalent
(in constant June 1979 prices). Due to the sector investment ceiling imposed
by the Secretaria de Planejamento in 1980 (para 1.23), and the possibility
that similar ceilings will be imposed in the future, it is likely that the
investment targets set by "Plano '95" will not be met, particularly in the
areas of transmission and distribution. This topic will be discussed in
the power sector memorandum currently being prepared.



- 10 -
2. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARIES
The Borrower
2.01      The Borrower would be Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA - ELETROBRAS,
an autonomous Government institution created by Law No. 3890-A of April 1961.
Of the subscribed capital of ELETROBRAS at December 31, 1978 amounting to
Cr$ 35.8 billion about 99.7% was owned by the Brazilian federal government and
the remaining 0.3% was owned by state and municipal governments and by private
shareholders. ELETROBRAS operates under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Mines and Energy. The main functions performed by ELETROBRAS are:
(a) as a holding company exercising ownership on behalf of the
Federal Government in those utilities in which the Government
has invested;
(b) as a financial institution administering and allocating funds
to assist the expansion of its subsidiaries and state and
municipally owned utilities; and
(c) as a planning and coordinating agency assisting the Ministry
of Mines and Energy to plan and execute the development of
the power sector, coordinate the operation of generating and
transmission facilities, provide research, and, supply techni-
cal, managerial and training services.
2.02      This will be the third Bank loan made directly to ELETROBRAS.
The first two, Loans 1300-BR and 1538-BR, were made in 1976 and 1978 to be
on-lent to state owned utilities in the Northeast and Southeast to assist
their distribution expansion programs.
2.03.     ELETROBRAS is administered by an Administrative Council, which sets
policy and an Executive Board of Directors which manages its operations. The
Administrative Council consists of the President of ELETROBRAS, who acts as
its Chairman, the five members of the Executive Board of Directors, two to
four members elected for three year periods representing the Government, one
member representing the state and municipal government stock holders, and, one
member representing private stockholders. The Executive Board of Directors
consists of the President of ELETROBRAS as chairman and five directors, each
of whom serves as the executive head of a functional department in the company.
In addition there is a five member Fiscal Council, elected annually by the
stockholders, which is charged with the responsibility for reviewing its
financial affairs. ELETROBRAS has built up a competent organization. It is
well run and its organizational structure (Annex 2-1) is well suited to its
needs. ELETROBRAS financial accounts have been audited satisfactorily by the
Brazilian firm of Boucinhas, Campos & Claro Ltda. ELETROBRAS agreed to



- 11 -
have its accounts audited by external auditors satisfactory to the Bank and
submit audited financial statements to the Bank not later than four months
after the end of each fiscal year.
2.04      ELETROBRAS is the principal financing institution for the Brazilian
power sector. It is the major shareholder in the four regional bulk supply
companies (para. 1.10). ELETROBRAS also owns majority shares in two other
power distribution utilities and minority participation in 27 other associated
companies in the power sector. ELETROBRAS plays a role akin to a development
bank in Brazil's power sector. In addition to its equity participation in
the subsidiaries and associated companies, it channels funds to the various
utilities through loans and grants. Through its financial leverage ELETROBRAS
has been successful in improving the financial and technical efficiencies of
the utilities.
2.05      ELETROBRAS is responsible for carrying out the policies estab-
lished by the Ministry of Mines and Energy for the development of the sector.
ELETROBRAS, on the basis of proposals from the utilities, prepares multi-annual
budgets (Orcamento Plurianual do Setor de Energia Eletrica - OPE) which serve
as the principal planning document for the power sector. The OPE, which
covers a period of 5 years, contains a market study, detailed regional and
utility-specific investments necessary to satisfy this market and the corres-
ponding financial forecasts. The OPE is prepared annually within the broad
policy guidelines of the Government's five year development plans. It serves
as a useful input in the planning of domestic electric manufacturing industry
because it contains information on equipment requirements.
2.06      ELETROBRAS is also responsible for research beneficial to the elec-
tric power sector. Together with its major subsidiaries ELETROBRAS has
established a research center (Centro de Pesquisa de Eletricidade - CEPEL)
wvhich has been working closely with the power companies and the electro-
mechanical equipment manufacturing industry. With respect to the proposed
project CEPEL is undertaking a survey of the capability of the local industry
to furnish project components. It is expected to play a major role in the
development of computer software and programs forming part of the project.
Coordination of Operations of Electric Power Facilities
2.07      The principal characteristics of the Brazilian interconnected
power system are such that on-line coordination of operations by the various
utilities which own and operate the system is essential. The area covered
by the system is very large; the principal hydroelectric energy sources are
located far from the major load centers; and several utilities own and
operate power plants in cascade on the same rivers. Because of the mixed
ownership of power plants, ownership and operation of the high voltage
transmission lines, particularly those serving the principal load centers
of the South and Southeast, is also mixed. Each of the principal trans-
mission systems constitutes, by itself, a sufficiently complex network



- 12 -
to justify network analysis and security monitoring capability. However, none
of the utilities operating the principal transmission lines can adequately
monitor and analyze its own system without receiving data on the operation of
the systems operated by the other utilities. In recognition of the benefits
that could be derived from coordinating their operations the major power
companies in the Southeast voluntarily formed, in 1968, the Comite Coordenador
de Operacao Interligada (CCOI) - a coordinating Committee to establish the
policies for interconnected operations. CCOI then set up task forces to
perform studies on planning and coordination of energy production, coordina-
tion of bulk power transmission, system operation, maintenance, dispatching
and control.
2.08      While the CCOI was initially successful in coordinating inter-
connected operations it lacked the legal and organizational framework to cope
with the needs of an increasingly complex and rapidly growing interconnected
power system. To provide this framework, the government, through Law No. 5899
of July 1973 and Decree No. 73.102 of November 1973, established the Grupos
Coordinadores para Operacao Interligada (GCOI) to coordinate the operations in
the interconnected power system of the South and Southeast regions. Two such
groups were established: GCOI-SE covering the South-eastern regior and GCOI-S
covering the South. Although the Northeast power system will not be elec-
trically interconnected with the South/Southeast interconnected network until
probably late in the 1980's, Portaria No. 360 of the Ministry of Mines and
Energy dated March 17, 1977, established CHESF (the bulk power supplier for
the Northeast) as a member of GCOI-SE. CHESF was made a member of GCOI South-
east because the ownership, in cascade, of the major hydro reservoirs on
the Sao Francisco river (Tres Marias by CEMIG of the Southeastern system and
Sobradinho by CHESF) and the coordination required for the operation of these
major reservoirs, functionally ties the Northeast and Southeast power systems.
CHESF can therefore derive economies by coordinating its operations with the
interconnected South/Southeast system. The GCOI's are also charged with coordi-
nating and directing the operations of the individual generating plants and
transmission systems to attain the maximum efficiency for the whole Brazilian
power system from a financial and operating point of view.
2.09      Policy direction at GCOI is provided by its Superior Council con-
sisting of the Presidents of ELETROBRAS and the participating utilities with
DNAEE's Director General acting as observer. The Executive Committee of GCOI
is made up of the Directors of Operations of ELETROBRAS and the participating
utilities with the ELETROBRAS Director acting as chairman. DNAEE acts as an
observer of the deliberations of the Executive Committee. The Executive
Committee is responsible for establishing the procedures and principles for
interconnected operations. The Executive Committee's decisions are imple-
mented by the Secretaria de Supervisao e Coordenacao (SSC) which is a staff
organization within ELETROBRAS. Actual implementation of the procedures for
interconnected operations is carried out through five subcommittees consist-
ing of not more than two representatives from each of the participating
utilities. Presently these five subcommittees are responsible for carrying



- 13 -
out: (i) electrical studies; (ii) energy operations planning; (iii) operations
scheduling; (iv) maintenance programming; and (v) planning and operating tele-
communications. ELETROBRAS has developed a competent staff organization to
assist GCOI in each of these areas on an annual and monthly cycle basis. GCOI
has been able to effectively minimize the production of electric energy from
plants burning fuel oil while maintaining safe levels of multi-annual hydro
storage to meet future needs and establishing safe and economic operating
criteria. GCOI annually simulates, for about the next three years, future
system operations using hydrological data compiled since 1931, and determines
an annual and monthly program of operations for each generating plant of the
interconnected system. GCOI estimates the cost of using fossil fuels for
thermal generation for the interconnected system as a whole and allocates this
cost to the utilities in proportion to their power market. The other GCOI
activities include performing system stability studies to anticipate potential
operating problems, identifying transmission system limitations, establishing
daily operating criteria, reserve and performance requirements. GCOI also
produces weekly, monthly and annual reports which summarize the overall
performance of the interconnected system.
2.10      While the GCOI has been effective in developing operations plans,
establishing operating criteria and reviewing system performance, the present
method of operations, with little remote monitoring and control, is inadequate
and it will become even more inadequate to meet the needs of the power sector
as the system continues to grow in complexity. The continued mixed ownership
of hydro power plants and transmission lines, the construction of large
hydroelectric and nuclear power plants, the increasing interconnection of the
national grid, the introduction of extra high voltage transmission lines and
possible future interchange of energy with neighboring countries will all demand
a level of power system monitoring, supervision, coordination and information
processing capability which is far beyond the capacity of the existing GCOI.
The proposed national supervisory and control system (see Chapter 3) of which
the project is a part would provide GCOI with this capability and hence it
would enhance the role entrusted to GCOI.
The Beneficiary
Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco (CHESF)
2.11      ELETROBRAS would on-lend about US$22 million from the proposed
loan to the Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco (CHESF). CHESF was
established in 1948 as a subsidiary of ELETROBRAS and is charged with the
responsibility for the generation and transmission of electric power in the
Northeastern region of Brazil (comprising the states of Bahia, Sergipe, Alagoas,
Pernambuco, Paraiba, Rio Grande do Norte, Ceara, Piaui and Maranhao).
CHESF's subscribed capital at December 31, 1978 was Cr$ 4.7 billion. Of this
ELETROBRAS owned about 97%, the Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(SUDENE) - a northeast regional development agency - owned 2%, and state and
municipal government agencies owned the remaining 1%.
Organization
2.12      CHESF is administered by an Administrative Council and a Board of
Directors. The Administrative Council comprises 3 members selected by the



- 14 -
shareholders from the Directors of ELETROBRAS for a 3 year period. The
Administrative Council is responsible for general policy formulation at the
company. The Board of Directors, which is charged with managing the operations
of the company, comprises a president and six directors each elected to a 3
year term by the general assembly of shareholders. Each board member also
serves as executive head of an operating department. In addition, a Fiscal
Council, consisting of 3 members elected by the shareholders general assembly
to a one year term, approves the company's finances. At December 31, 1978,
the company had about 11,300 employees. While the number of employees is
large by comparison with other Brazilian bulk supply utilities it is reasonable
considering that its service area is spread over 1.5 million square kilometers.
The company's organizational structure, which is shown in Annex 2-2, is sound.
In the past few years CHESF has undergone frequent changes in its top manage-
ment as persons holding top management positions at CHESF have been appointed
by the government to fill positions in other utilities and elsewhere in the
power sector. These frequent management changes may have adversely affected
CHESF's operations and contributed to a slow recovery from delays experienced
in the execution of the Bank-financed Paulo-Afonso IV Project (para 2.14).
The management situation at CHESF is beginning to stabilize and execution of
the proposed project should not be adversely affected. CHESF has been able
to fill the vacancies of professional staff which resulted from moving its
headquarters from Rio de Janeiro to Recife in 1975.
Management System
2.13      CHESF's financial planning, budgeting and management reporting
systems are satisfactory. Annual budgets and financial forecasts covering a
period of 10 years are prepared and updated periodically. Internal control
functions under the internal audit department are satisfactory. CHESF's finan-
cial accounts are audited annually by the firm of Boucinhas, Campos and Claro
Ltda which is acceptable to the Bank. The provision in existing agreements
requiring CHESF to have its accounts audited by external auditors satisfactory
to the Bank and to submit audited financial statements to the Bank not later
than four months after the end of each fiscal year was repeated.
Bank Involvement
2.14      The Bank has made two previous loans to CHESF.  The first, US$15
million made in 1950, was to finance the first two 60 MW hydro electric
generating plants on the Sao Francisco river. This project was successfully
completed on schedule with minimal cost overruns. The second Bank loan of
US$81 million was made in 1974 to finance transmission lines associated with
the Paulo Afonso IV hydro electric project. Because of design changes execu-
tion of this project was delayed by about a year. The project is now proceeding
satisfactorily and will be completed in 1981. Its economic justification will
not be reduced by the delay.
CHESF's Power Market
2.15      CHESF is the sole utility generating electricity for public consump-
tion in the Northeast. CHESF supplies energy in bulk to the nine state dis-
tribution companies in its concession area. In addition, it supplies energy



- 15 -
to several large industrial consumers. CHESF's power market has grown very
rapidly as a result of the Government's effort to industrialize the Northeast.
Its energy sales grew at an annual rate of 15.7% between 1974 and 1978 com-
pared to an annual growth rate of 12.4% nationally. CHESF's energy sales in
1978 were i'.,179 GWh. CHESF's installed capacity at the end of 1979 was 3,000
MW and its peak demand was about 2,700 MW. The generating reserve margin of
10% in 1979 was low; however, during 1980 CHESF expects to increase its
generating reserve margin to a satisfactory 30% with the completion of an
additional 1,345 MW of hydro capacity.
Participation in Interconnected Operation
2.16      CHESF participates in the activities of GCOI-SE (para 2.08).  CHESF
has been able to achieve economies of operations (e.g. fuel savings) by
coordinating its operating regimes with the interconnected South/Southeast
system through regulation of the various hydro storage reservoirs on the
Sao Francisco river; in 1978, only 5% of energy generated in the Northeast
was fossil fuel based. CHESF also participates in the Comite Coordenador de
Operacao do Nordeste (CCON). CCON includes DNAEE, ELETROBRAS and the nine
state power distribution companies of the Northeast. This committee is
charged with coordinating the short term planning of generation, transmission
and distribution in the Northeast, and establishing design standards and
operating procedures for CHESF and the nine state utilities. CCON has been
effective in improving the operations and in achieving savings in investments
in the Northeast system.



- 16 -
3. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program for a National System of Supervision and Control of
Interconnected Operations
3.01      To reduce Brazil's dependence on imported petroleum, the Government's
development policy stresses the maximum exploitation of domestic energy
resources: hydroelectric, uranium/thorium and coal. Existing generation
expansion programs as well as the future generation expansion program contained
in the "Plan 95" (para. 1.23) therefore emphasize the development of Brazil's
considerable hydroelectric potential. The Itaipu hydro project, the largest
in the world, would add about 12,600 MW to Brazil's installed capacity when it
is completed in 1987. The Tucurui project, under construction on the Tocantins
River in the north, would add another 3,960 MW of capacity by 1987. It is,
however, becoming increasingly more difficult to obtain the massive capital
investments required for their development. In recognition of this DNAEE/
GCOI/ELETROBRAS are taking further steps to improve the coordination of the
activities of the various utilities in Brazil in order to achieve the most
economic installation and operation of their generation and transmission
facilities.
3.02.     GCOI currently directs interconnected operations by means of annual
and monthly operation plans and dispatch schedules for the participating
utilities (paras. 2.08 and 2.09). Because there is no computerized supervi-
sion and control system at the national level, the Brazilian interconnected
electric power system is operated mainly by telephone directed operator
intervention. The power plants are operated principally in accordance with
predetermined generator loading schedules. Remote monitoring of the power
plants, substations and transmission lines, at most company, regional and
national levels, is non-existent. This situation is unusual for a large power
system, in particular for an interconnected system as complex as Brazil's.
The existing mode of operation does not provide enough flexibility for adapting
operating plans and schedules to daily or hourly changes in hydrological and
other system conditions. The proposed program would provide for this flexi-
bility and would allow the operation of generation and transmission facilities
closer to their technical limits while maximizing system reliability and thus
strengthen the coordinated operation of the interconnected power system of
Brazil (para. 2.10).
3.03.     The proposed project will be part of a national system for supervision
and coordination of interconnected operations (SINSC). 1/ The SINSC program
consists of a computerized system which would allow for the remote supervision
of the interconnected power system at the national level and permit the coordi-
nation of actions during serious emergencies.   SINSC would also provide for
remote supervision and control of the electric power facilities at the
regional level2/ The principal components of the complete SINSC program
are (i) a Real-Time Supervision System (RTSS) to be located at a national
1/   SINSC: Sistema Nacional de Supervisao e Coordenacao de Operacao
Interligada.
2/   Annex 3-1 shows the control areas of the major utilities.



- 17 -
Supervision and Coordination Center (CSC 1/) in Brasilia; (ii) the Data
Acquisition and Control Systems (DACS 2/) located at the System Operations
Centers (COS 3/) of major electric power supply companies and ITAIPU; and
(iii) telecommunication systems. The RTSS will consist of computers, auxiliary
equipment consisting of consoles and video displays, computer programs, and
the interface equipment between the computers and the telecommunication
system. The DACS will consist of computer-based master stations, remote
terminal units, peripherals and supporting communication networks necessary
for the COSs to control their areas of operation of the interconnected power
system. The CSC computer will communicate with each of the computers at the
COSs through the communication systems. These systems (mainly on microwave
systems) consist of high quality voice grade channels. Annex 3-2 gives a more
detailed description of the elements of the SINSC program.
3.04.     The facilities at the CSC and the COSs will form a hierarchical
control system for the operation of the Brazilian interconnected power system.
Annex 3-8 shows a schematic representation of the proposed national supervisory
and control system. The functions to be performed at the CSC, which will be
the top level of the system, include production scheduling and coordination,
supervision of the main interconnected network, interchange accounting and
operations analysis and reporting. At the next level will be the COSs where
the DACS will perform digital automatic generation control (AGC), supervisory
control and data acquisition (SCADA) and energy management (EM). The computer
at the COSs will process, transmit and receive data from the CSC computer.
At the bottom level will be the power plants and substations which will be
monitored and controlled from the COSs. To ensure the hierarchical integrity
of the system there will be no direct communication between the CSC computer
and the power plants and substations.
Project Selection and Content
3.05.     As shown in Annex 3-8, the complete SINSC program will comprise
the CSC facilities and the COSs of 8 major utilities -- CHESF, FURNAS,
CEMIG, CESP, CEEE, COPEL, ELETRONORTE, ELETROSUL-and also ITAIPU. The
project proposed for Bank financing has been defined to comprise the initial
components of SINSC which are at an advanced stage of preparation. These
are the CSC, to be located at Brasilia and implemented by ELETROBRAS, and
the COS of CHESF. Of the remaining COSs, COPEL's is already in operation
and will require only minor modifications for integration into SINSC; the
ELETRONORTE system is being implemented and includes provisions for inte-
gration into SINSC; the CEMIG system is being procured under an IDB-financed
loan and will incorporate provisions for integration into SINSC. The
functional requirements and specifications for the COSs of FURNAS, ELETROSUL,
1/   CSC:   Centro de Supervisao e Coordenacao - Center for Supervision
and coordination.
2/   DACS:  Data Acquisition and Control System.
3/   COS:   Centro de Operacao de Sistema - System Operation Center.



- 18 -
CESP, CEEE AND ITAIPU are still in the process of study. The procurement of
these remaining COSs is, however, not on the critical path for the gradual
implementation of SINSC. It was therefore decided to limit the project to
the CSC and the COS of CHESF in order to meet the target date for the initial
operation of SINSC. The full economic benefits of the SINSC program, however,
would only be realized after the entire SINSC program becomes operational and
therefore appropriate assurances for the timely completion of the remaining
SINSC components are necessary.  ELETROBRAS has provided a time-table for the
minor modifications necessary to integrate the COPEL and CEMIG COSs into
SINSC.  ELETROBRAS agreed to (i) provide the Bank with the feasibility studies
(up to system specification level) for the implementation of the COSs of CEEE,
CESP, FURNAS and ITAIPU by June 30, 1981 - in the case of FURNAS and CESP the
feasibility studies would include provisions, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the coordination of operation of facilities under the LIGHT-Rio and LIGHT-Sao
Paulo systems (see para 3.06); and (ii) to take all action necessary to ensure
that the entire SINSC program is completed in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practice.
3.06      As noted at para. 1.11, in keeping with the Government's stated
policy of concentrating distribution in single state-owned utilities, the
Government recently decided to reorganize LIGHT by splitting the Rio and
Sao Paulo systems. Such reorganization of LIGHT will affect the originally
conceived configuration and operation of SINSC, under which LIGHT was to have
its own COS (to be located in Sao Paulo, but to control both the Rio de
Janeiro and Sao Paulo systems). It was originally intended to finance the
LIGHT COS from the proposed loan. However, following the Government's decision
to split the LIGHT-Rio and LIGHT-Sao Paulo systems it was no longer feasible
to control these two systems from the same COS. Instead, the LIGHT-Sao Paulo
system, which is to be owned by CESP will now be brought under the control
of the COS of CESP, and LIGHT-Rio de Janeiro under the COS of FURNAS. Since
future sector reorganizations could have implications for the SINSC program,
the Federal Government and ELETROBRAS would afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment prior to making any changes in sector organization
which would affect the configuration of SINSC, and would not implement any
such changes which would substantially and adversely affect the operation of
SINSC.
3.07.     The proposed project, covering the requirements of the CSC and the
COSs of CHESF and LIGHT, has been divided into three parts: (I) the supervisory
and control subsystem; (II) the complementary telecommunication subsystem
necessary to operate SINSC; and (III) a comprehensive training program and
tariff studies for the power sector. The principal project components are as
follows:
I.   Supervision and Control (Part A of Project):
(a)  For ELETROBRAS:  Installation of the Real Time Supervision
System (RTSS) at the CSC comprising:  (i) computer hardware;
(ii) support and application software; (iii) auxiliary equipment
consisting principally of operator consoles, panels, video
displays etc.; (iv) communication interface; (v) training
related to the implementation and operation of the SINSC; and
(vi) civil works, power supplies and related infrastructure
for the national supervision and coordination center.



- 19 -
(b)  For CHESF:  Installation of a Data Acquisition and Control
System (DACS) at the COS' comprising: (i) a computer-based
master station; (ii) remote terminal units; (iii) software;
(iv) operator consoles; (v) communication interface,
(vi) training related to SINSC; and (vii) civil works,
power supplies and related infrastructure.
II.   Telecommunications (Part B of the Project):
(a)  For ELETROBRAS:  the provision of communication links
between the CSC and the COS's of the utilities participating
in SINSC.
(b)  For CHESF:  the provision of communication links between
the COS' and the dispatch centers, power plants and
substations under CHESF's area of control.
III.   Sector Training Program and studies (Part C of the Project):
A comprehensive training program for sector personnel to be
carried out by ELETROBRAS in Brazil (about 3,060 man-months)
and abroad (about 525 man-months). The sector training
program will cover the following areas: system planning
and operations, standardization and quality control, financial
administration, economics of public utility operation, environ-
mental studies, work safety and industrial medicine. A similar
training program financed by the Bank has been successfully
carried out by ELETROBRAS under Loan 1343-BR. In addition part C
of the project includes studies on the application of tariffs in
Brazil based on marginal costs (para 1.17).
3.08      In the case of ELETROBRAS, the telecommunication facilities required
for SINSC consist of minor additions and links to the existing microwave
networks of the utilities. The CHESF telecommunication system included in the
project is part of an extensive and multipurpose communication system being
implemented for the Northeast region. For SINSC purposes, channel capacity
would be provided in the Northeast communication system to link the computers
at CHESF's COS to the computers at the CSC and also to the power plants,
substations and dispatch centers within CHESF's control area. Because the
channels of the multipurpose CHESF telecommunication system are essential
for the operation of SINSC, ELETROBRAS and CHESF agreed to take all action
necessary to ensure timely completion of the Northeast telecommunication
system and to ensure that the channel capacity needed for SINSC is ready for
project commissioning.
Project Cost
3.09.     The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$140 million
of which about US$58 million (41%) represents foreign costs. The project cost
estimate is shown in detail in Annexes 3-3 to 3-5 and summarized below:



- 20 -
In US$ million
ELETROBRAS   CHESF           TOTAL
Part A (Supervisory and Control System)
Supervision & Control (Base Cost)           28.6        31.0            59.6
Physical Contingency                         5.9         4.7            10.6
Price Contingency                            8.9        12.2            21.1
Total Part A                              43.4        47.9            91.3
of which Foreign                        27.1        22.0            49.1
Local                         16.3        25.9            42.2
Part B (Telecommunications System)
Communications (Base Cost)                   3.5        15.7            19.2
Physical Contingency                         0.7         2.4             3.1
Price Contingency                            0.9         5.7             6.6
Total Part B                               5.1        23.8            28.9
of which Foreign                         0.6         3.6             4.2
Local                          4.5        20.2            24.7
TOTAL (Parts A and B)                     48.5        71.7           120.2
of which Foreign                        27.7       25.5             53.2
Local                         20.8        46.2            67.0
Part C (Sector Training Program)
Sector Training Program (Base Cost)         17.0                        17.0
Physical Contingency                         1.0                         1.0
Price Contingency                            2.0                         2.0
Total Part C                              20.0                        20.0
of which Foreign                        5.0                         5.0
Local                        15.0                        15.0
TOTAL PROJECT                             68.5        71.7           140.2
of which Foreign                        32.7        25.5            58.2
Local                         35.8        46.2            82.0
3.10      The base costs were estimated by ELETROBRAS/CHESF and their
consultants on the basis of quotations of prices prevailing in December 1978
updated by indexation as an attempt to reflect December 1979 price levels.
These prices are reasonable. The base cost estimates include engineering and
administration costs for the project as well as applicable taxes and import
duties. The cost of consulting services has been estimated on the basis of
about US$13,500 per man-month, including subsistence and travel expenses.
Physical contingencies average about 20% of the base cost which is reasonable



- 21 -
for this type of project. Price contingencies for all costs were estimated
on the basis of 12% for 1979, 10.5% for 1980, 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982, 7% for
1983 to 1985, and 6% thereafter.
Amount of Loan
3.11      The foreign component of part A of the project is US$53.3 includ-
ing price contingencies but excluding interest during construction. A loan
amount of US$54 million is proposed to cover (i) the foreign exchange cost
of Part A of the project; and (ii) the foreign cost of the sector training
program and tariff studies (Part C of the project). The proposed loan would
be made to ELETROBRAS for a term of 15 years including three years of grace.
ELETROBRAS would on-lend, out of the proposed loan, US$22 million to CHESF
on terms and conditions similar to the Bank loan. CHESF would bear the
foreign exchange risk associated with the onlent funds.
Project Implementation
3.12      ELETROBRAS will be directly responsible for the implementation of
the CSC and the related telecommunication links and the training in connection
with the CSC. ELETROBRAS would also implement the sector training program
and tariff studies (Part C of the project, para. 3.07). CHESF would implement
its COS and the related telecommunications and training. ELETROBRAS would
supervise the implementation of CHESF's COS. Implementation of the remainder
of the SINSC, which is not included in the project, would also be supervised
and coordinated by ELETROBRAS. This would provide the opportunity for assuring
compatibility of the various facilities in the implementation of the various
components of the SINSC program. The detailed organization for implementing
the SINSC program has been specified in an agreement signed between ELETROBRAS
and the participating utilities (Convenio). It provides for a high level
committee--Comite de Implantacao (COIMP)--made up of the operations directors
of ELETROBRAS and the participating utilities. COIMP is headed by the director
of operations of ELETROBRAS who acts as its coordinator. COIMP establishes
the policies and guidelines for the implementation of the SINSC program.
COIMP is assisted by a SINSC coordinating commission-Comissao de Coordenacao
(COC) - which will make policy recommendations, monitor and coordinate the
activities during the implementation of the SINSC components. COC is headed
by a coordinator, appointed by ELETROBRAS, and comprises representatives from
the participating utilities with direct supervisory responsibility for the
implementation of the COS's. COC supervises a SINSC program management
team-Gerencia do Projeto (GERP) - which has been established within ELETROBRAS
and is responsible for setting the standards and procedures for the execution
of the SINSC components. GERP is headed by a competent manager and has built
up a qualified staff organization. The Convenio also specifies that actual
implementation of the SINSC program would be carried out through task forces -
Grupo de Projeto Especifico-GPE. The GPEs may be specific groups within a
utility; project implementation units which have been formed at CHESF to
handle the installation of the COS are examples of such GPEs. Other GPEs
would be permanent groups drawn from staff of ELETROBRAS and the utilities to
deal with specific topics such as real-time systems, software preparation,
telecommunications, civil works etc. The arrangements for the implementation
of the project and the entire SINSC program are very advanced and satisfactory.
ELETROBRAS and CHESF have hired suitable staff to implement the project.



- 22 -
3.13      GCOI/ELETROBRAS and CHESF are using the assistance of consultants
to prepare specifications and bidding documents and to provide associated
engineering services and are in the process of contracting consultants for the
supervision of construction. ELETROBRAS would also use consultants to prepare
studies related to the remainder of the SINSC program and also to develop
software associated with existing GCOI operations. ELETROBRAS has already
contracted Hidroservice (Brazil)/Systems Control Inc. (SCI-USA) to provide
these services. ELETROBRAS has also used the services of the Companhia
Auxiliar de Empresas Eletricas Brasileiras (CAEEB of Brazil) for the prepara-
tion of bidding documents for ICB procurement.  CHESF is being assisted by
its consultants--THEMAG (Brazil)/STAGG (USA) in project preparation. These
consultants would also assist CHESF in supervision of construction during
project implementation. Implementation of the remaining SINSC components,
which are not included in the project, will also be carried out with the
assistance of consultants.
3.14      The successful operation of SINSC will depend on a well planned and
integrated training program for the staff which would operate the CSC and the
COSs. ELETROBRAS has agreed to formulate and to submit to the Bank not later
than June 30, 1981, an acceptable training program which sufficiently
covers the needs of SINSC during implementation, operation and maintenance.
The foreign cost of this training program will be financed from the proposed
loan.
3.15      The SINSC program is expected to contribute substantially to the
transfer of modern technology to Brazil. The CSC and COSs would use the
latest computer system design technology. The GCOI staff involved with
project implementation is competent and is expected to absorb this know-how.
In addition, in the course of project implementation, staff members involved
with the project are expected to increase their technological know-how through
visits to foreign power companies with complex control and supervision systems.
The staff members are also expected to add to their technological knowledge
through visits to the facilities of contractors involved with manufacturing
project components and systems. In view of the high technology nature of
SINSC and in order that the technology transfer objective is facilitated,
ELETROBRAS agreed to set up not later than April 30, 1981, and thereafter
maintain a panel of specialists to monitor and advise on the various implemen-
tation phases of the SINSC program. Membership of the committee will be drawn
nationally and internationally from individuals experienced in power systems
control. These individuals may be designated members of specific organizations
or internationally-recognized independent consultants. The committee will make
periodic visits to project sites in Brazil as well as to equipment fabrication
locations within and outside Brazil as necessary, but not less than twice
annually. For maximum efficiency in disseminating technical knowledge,
seminars will he held as appropriate at the end of such periodic visits to
permit the exchange of information between the Committee and Brazilian offi-
cials. ELETROBRAS has notified the Bank of the composition of a working
group which will develop the terms of reference for the committee.
ELETROBRAS also agreed to furnish such terms of reference to the Bank by
April 30, 1981. Foreign expenses associated with the work of the panel will
be financed from the proposed loan.



- 23 -
3.16      The existing agreements for the implementation of SINSC, which in-
clude the Convenio and the agreements to set up the COC and the COIMP provide
an acceptable commitment of ELETROBRAS, the participating power companies and
DNAEE to the implementation of SINSC. To ensure that the appropriate legal
framework for the operation of SINSC exists, ELETROBRAS has agreed to include
in the legal opinion to be submitted to the Bank in connection with the
project, appropriate assurances that all the legal arrangements necessary
for the proper operation of SINSC have been made. ELETROBRAS would also
inform   the Bank that it will request the Minister of Mines and Energy to
enact an order (Portaria) to make ELETRONORTE a permanent member of GCOI by
the date of entering into operation of the interconnection between the
northern and northeastern electrical systems, or by December 31, 1982, which-
ever is earlier. (ELETRONORTE is currently the only utility participating
in SINSC which is not a member of GCOI).
3.17      The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985 and the
entire SINSC program should be fully operational by June 30, 1986. Bidding
documents for the CSC were issued in September 1979 after the Bank's review
and acceptance. Bidding documents for the COS of CHESF were issued at the end
of April 1980. The implementation schedules for the various project components
are shown in Annexes 3-6 and 3-7. These schedules, which are reasonable,
would be used to monitor the progress of execution of the project.
Procurement
3.18      Procurement of goods and services proposed for Bank financing except
for standardized or proprietary items, would be made through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) consistent with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
Special metering equipment and miscellaneous auxiliary items, to be financed
by the Bank, would be acquired through direct purchases at an estimated cost
of about US$900,000. These items are not considered suitable for ICB either
because of the need for maintaining standardization or because they are
proprietary in nature.
3.19      Items which are not proposed for Bank financing include land,
buildings, small civil works, auxiliary power supplies and air conditioning
for Part A and access roads, power supplies, buildings, towers, auxiliaries
and related engineering and services for Part B; they are not considered
likely to attract foreign bidders because of their small size and geographic
dispersion.  These items would be procured from local sources following
local competitive procurement procedures which are acceptable. Items not
financed by the Bank also include the telecommunication equipment for Part B
in the amount of US$28.9 million (24% of total cost of the SINSC project)
which could attract foreign bidders but is expected to be reserved by the
Brazilians for local manufacturers because of a current large excess domestic
manufacturing capacity or because of the need to use standardized or proprietary
items to expand the communication systems originally purchased from local
sources. Out of the total US$28.9 million of telecommunication equipment,
Brazilian suppliers (mostly licensees or affiliates of large international
firms) are expected to be competitive with foreign suppliers for a portion of
this equipment. Purchase by reserved local procurement of the remainder
(amounting to about 10% of the cost of the SINSC project) has a negligible
effect on project cost.



- 24 -
3.20      Because the Brazilian control equipment industry cannot yet supply
integrated, high technology computer based control systems for power system
supervision and control, ELETROBRAS has indicated that all such systems for
the project with the related computer hardware and software, communication
interface and remote terminal units (RTUs) would be furnished to the degree
possible as complete systems and under ICB by suppliers. However, ELETROBRAS
is undertaking a survey of the capacity of the Brazilian manufacturing industry
to furnish project items. While this survey has tentatively concluded that
domestic suppliers are not likely to be able to furnish some of the Supervisory
Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) equipment, it is possible that in the
course of project execution local industry might start producing some of these
items and that the Government would want to add such equipment to the list of
reserved local procurement. In such case, the list of goods eligible for Bank
financing and the loan amount would be correspondingly reduced.
Retroactive Financing
3.21      Retroactive financing of up to US$2 million, equivalent to about 3.7%
of the proposed loan, is proposed to cover consultant services and special
studies related to project preparation initiated after June 1, 1980 and for
training in connection with the SINSC program. The above activities include
the detailed design, preparation of bid documents and related engineering
services which cannot be delayed if the implementation schedules for the
proposed project components are to be met.
Disbursement
3.22      Disbursements from the Bank loan, which would be fully documented,
would be made for the following:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment, materials
and services related to the installation of the computer-based
Real-Time Supervision System (RTSS) and the Data Acquisition and
Control System (DACS) including the development of computer programs;
(b) 100% of the ex-factory cost of the equipment, materials and
services above if procured locally;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for consultant's services;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for training for the SINSC program;
and
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures for the sector training program and
tariff studies.
3.23      The estimated schedule of disbursements shown in the table below, has
been based on the assumption that the loan will become effective March 31, 1981.



- 25 -
Estimated Loan Disbursements (in US$ x 10 )
IBRD              Semester             Disbursed        Cumulative Disbursement
Fiscal Year           Ending           During Semester         at erd of Semester
1981          June 30, 1981               7.1                      7.1
1982          Dec. 31, 1981               7.4                     14.5
June 30, 1982              4.7                     19.2
1983          Dec. 31, 1982               4.1                     23.3
June 30, 1983              7.0                     30.3
1984          Dec. 31, 1983               6.0                     36.3
June 30, 1984              4.5                     40.8
1985          Dec. 31, 1984               6.4                     47.2
June 30, 1985              3.5                     50.7
1986          Dec. 31, 1985               3.3                     54.0
The closing date would be December 31, 1985, six months after project comple-
tion to allow for the payment of retentions.
Environment
3.24      The project's effect on the environment would be minimal.  The only
notable environmental aspect will be the visual impact of microwave relay
stations which form part of the telecommunications network. These stations,
however, would be installed principally in the sparsely populated Northeast
region. The stand-by diesel generators which would be enclosed would be
very small and would run infrequently. They are therefore not expected to
significantly affect the aesthetic and acoustic ambience of their immediate
surroundings.
Project Risks
3.25      There are risks associated with the project's high technology nature
and the multifaceted approach to its implementation. The technology associated
with power system supervision and coordination systems, such as SINSC, is very
advanced, still evolving and changing very rapidly. There is therefore the risk
that staff involved in project implementation may lack certain necessary skills
at key dates. The participation of qualified consultants and the advisory
panel in project implementation should minimize this risk. To further minimize
this risk the SINSC training program will be carefully designed, but flexible
to permit adaptation to a rapidly evolving supervisory systems technology.
The coordination of implementation to be provided by ELETROBRAS, and the
monitoring and advisory role to be provided by the proposed advisory panel,
should help ensure that the equipment and system configurations of the various
project components under ELETROBRAS and CHESF are compatible.



- 26 -
4. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Introduction
4.01      The principal goal of the SINSC program, of which the project is
a part, is to increase reliability in and achieve more economic supply of
electric power to the Brazilian market through better coordination of opera-
tions of facilities of the interconnected power network. The SINSC program
would allow for improved sector management, reduced capital investments in
power generation and transmission facilities, reduced fuel use and lower
maintenance costs while permitting the facilities on the interconnected power
system to be operated with greater security and reliability. The facilities
to be installed in the SINSC program would provide GCOI/ELETROBRAS and the
participating utilities with ready access to a data bank of the power market
supply operations which would be used to enhance power system planning. The
SINSC would permit coordination of operation of the Itaipu hydroelectric power
plant with the operation of the numerous upstream power plants owned by other
utilities, and thus provide for optimal use of Itaipu's abundant low cost
energy and hence result in minimizing the use of costly fuel for power genera-
tion. SINSC would also provide GCOI with the capability to improve the pre-
paration of operation plans for the utilities, allow the utilities to schedule
the operation of their generation and transmission facilities in a manner more
consistent with these operational plans, permit continuous monitoring of the
operations of the interconnected power system and permit restoration of
service faster than currently possible after interruption. The facilities
of SINSC would also improve or permit rational dispatching and control of
power plants and substations by the power companies. The contractual basis
for the project is established. Under the existing GCOI laws the utilities
have entered into electric power interchange agreements in accordance with
the operating plans and criteria established by GCOI. Furthermore, Law No.
5899 of July 5, 1973, requires the utilities on the interconnected system to
give priority to the use of power and energy provided to Brazil from ITAIPU.
In this regard the utilities are preparing to enter into 20 year contracts
with FURNAS and ELETROSUL - the bulk suppliers designated to transmit Brazil's
share of ITAIPU's output.
Least Cost Solution
4.02      For the scope of operations, speed of data transmission and the
reliability of facilities to implement the national supervision and coordina-
tion system, no reasonable alternative exists other than the digital computer
systems which form the basis for the project and the entire SINSC program.
For the configuration of the SINSC program ELETROBRAS and its consultants
compared the proposed SINSC configuration (Annex 3-8) to two other configura-
tions. In one configuration only the COS's of the regional bulk supplier,
subsidiaries of ELETROBRAS (FURNAS, ELETROSUL, CHESF, ELETRONORTE) communicate
directly with the CSC at the national center while the other utilities communi-
cate with the CSC through their regional centers. The third alternative
considered comprised setting up a separate supervision and control center
at each of the four regional bulk suppliers. The proposed SINSC configura-
tion, which has the national center communicating directly with each of the
ten major utilities supplying power to the interconnected network, was found
to be the preferred alternative from a functional, operational and economic



- 27 -
viewpoint. The individual project components chosen and the system design of
the CSC and the COS's are the least cost components resulting in a system
design compatible with the functional and reliability requirements of the
SINSC. While the CSC and the COS's will all have dual redundant computers
this redundancy is essential to enable the SINSC system to carry out the
necessary supervision and control functions even when one of the computers at
the national or company centers is out of service. The COS's will perform
on-line operational control functions during normal system operating conditions.
The CSC will not normally exercise on-line control, however, it will have
over-ride power and give directives to the COS's for the restoration of
service during emergency conditions if such conditions would affect the
operations control of more than one COS.
Economic Benefits
4.03      The proposed SINSC program is expected to result in an overall
improvement in sector management, significant future reductions in capital
investments in generating and transmission facilities, lower requirements
for fossil fuels for power generation, improvements in the reliability of
electricity supply, and reductions in industrial output foregone because of
power outages. The SINSC program can therefore be considered as an integral
part of a modern electric power generation/transmission complex. Because of
the pervasive nature of the SINSC program, it is very difficult to quantify
the economic benefits associated with it. However, from the experience of
power systems elsewhere that have installed national supervision systems
(e.g., Electricite de France (EdF) and ENEL in Italy) annual savings of about
1% in generation and transmission investments can be expected to result from
SINSC. These investment savings alone, used as a minimum measure of the
project's economic benefits, would result in an internal rate of return of
about 13% for the SINSC program which compares favorably with the opportunity
cost of capital in Brazil. Some of the savings in operating costs associated
with the SINSC program can also be quantified by analogy with EdF and ENEL.
From the experience of these utilities, the SINSC program should result in
annual savings of about 0.3% of hydro generation from the improved production
scheduling and coordination of hydro facilities to achieve reduced spill.
Annual savings of about one percent of transmission losses can also be
expected from SINSC as a result of improved transmission network management
(i.e., better reactive generation dispatching and voltage control, more
timely scheduling of outages and faster restoration of service after inter-
ruptions). With these savings in operating costs added to the savings in
investment the internal rate of return of the SINSC program increases to
about 18%.



- 28 -
5.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
5.01      The proposed project (with an expected technological life of 10-15
years), represents a relatively small percentage (less than 1%) of the 1980-
1985 investment program of ELETROBRAS and CHESF. ELETROBRAS and CHESF should,
therefore, not have any difficulties obtaining sufficient financing to cover
the local cost of the project assuming that the sector tariff issues (para.
1.15 and 1.16) are satisfactorily resolved. The agreement signed between
ELETROBRAS and the participating utilities for the installation of the SINSC
program (the Convenio) contains a provision that ELETROBRAS will provide any
financing needed by the utilities to cover their portion of the construction
of SINSC. This provision has been included in the agreements relating to the
project. Furthermore, as is usual with Bank power loans, the Federal Govern-
ment agreed to cause to be provided any financing needed by ELETROBRAS and
CHESF to complete the project in the event that funds available to them for
the project from other sources are inadequate. The financial history and
prospects of ELETROBRAS and CHESF are summarized in the paragraphs below and
supplemented by Annexes 5-1 through 5-9.
ELETROBRAS
5.02      As the holding company for the power sector ELETROBRAS plays a
pivotal financial role in the development of the sector. It administers funds
to the power sector utilities in the form of loans and equity investments.
ELETROBRAS is heavily dependent on sector based resources for its finances.
This dependence coupled with its pivotal role tend to make trends in ELETROBRAS'
financial condition mirror trends in the financial state of the sector. Over
the 1969-1975 period when sector tariffs were generally satisfactory, ELETROBRAS'
financial condition remained very solid. It borrowed very little as consumer
based resources constituted about 91% of its financial requirements; its debt
service coverage ratio ranged from 3.1 to 6.4 and its debt/equity ratio im-
proved from 41/59 to 36/73. In the past four years the power utilities have
experienced a decline in their earnings as a result of inadequate tariffs.
This decline has been reflected in an erosion of ELETROBRAS finances. Over
the 1976-1978 period the proportion of ELETROBRAS resources contributed by
consumers declined to 69%. To supplement these resources ELETROBRAS became
increasingly dependent on costly borrowing mostly from foreign sources. Its
debt/equity ratio at the end of 1978 was 49/51. Of ELETROBRAS debt outstand-
ing as of December 31, 1978 amounting to about Cr$45 billion, about Cr$29.5
billion was foreign--the principal debtors being Bank of America (Cr$6.4
billion), Credit Commerciale de France (Cr$5.2 billion) and Deutsch Bank
(Cr$5.2 billion).
5.03      Annexes 5-1 through 5-4 show ELETROBRAS actual financial results
for 1976-1978 and forecasts through 1986 which have been prepared on the
basis of the sector requirements contained in the sector investment program
up to 1995 (para. 1.23). Based on these forecasts ELETROBRAS' needs for
resources and sources of financing during the 1980-1985 construction period
of the project are summarized below and shown in more detail in Annex 5-2:



- 29 -
Requairements
Cr$X10          US$X10          %
Capital Investments                   112.9            4.5         i8.1
Loans                                 476.4           19.0         76.5
Working Capital & Others               33.2            1.3          5.4
622.5           24.8       100.0
Sources of Funds
Net Internal Cash Generation          193.1            7.7          31.0
Sole Tax                               31.3            1.2           5.1
Reversion                             219.2            8.8          35.2
Compulsory Loan                       150.7            6.0          24.2
Total Consumer based Resources 594.3             23.7         95.5
Borrowing                              27.0            1.1           4.3
Other Sources                           1.2              -           0.2
622.5           24.8        100.0
5.04      The forecasts of ELETROBRAS key financial indicators during the
project period (Annex 5-1) indicate that although ELETROBRAS financial con-
dition will be eroded somewhat its overall financial soundness will be main-
tained. ELETROBRAS financial soundness, however, may be achieved at the
expense of the financial viability of the utilities which are dependent on
it for financing. There are indications that the terms of ELETROBRAS loans
(currently 12% interest plus monetary correction, 10 year repayment) may be
too stringent for some of the utilities which rely on ELETROBRAS for most
of their loans.  Some of these utilities such as ELETROSUL and CHESF have
unusually high debt equity ratios, low debt service coverage and unsatis-
factory self-financing capacity. In addition ELETROBRAS financial partici-
pation in the utilities has been about 80% in the form of loans, and about 20%
in the form of equity and the forecasts indicate that ELETROBRAS will maintain
this proportion during the project's construction. This high proportion of
loan to equity financing may be jeopardizing the capital structure of the
utilities and therefore ELETROBRAS may have to review its policy regarding
the proportion of loan to equity in its investment portfolio. The Bank has
already initiated action to ensure the financial soundness of those power
borrowers dependent on ELETROBRAS financing: the Loan Agreements in connec-
tion with the ELETROSUL transmission project (1343-BR) require ELETROBRAS to
convert a portion of its loans to ELETROSUL into equity to enable ELETROSUL
maintain a satisfactory debt service coverage ratio; the Loan Agreements
relating to the CHESF Paulo-Afonso IV Project (1008-BR) require ELETROBRAS to
provide CHESF with equity or other suitable financing to help cover CHESF's
financial obligations. An analysis of ELETROBRAS financing policies is
currently being made in connection with a power sector memorandum on Brazil.
The recommendations from this analysis would be discussed with ELETROBRAS
in the context of possible future Bank involvement with the power sector.



- 30 -
CHESF
5.05      During the 1976-78 period CHESF's financial rate of return ranged
from 12% to 17%. Because of a heavy debt service burden, CHESF did not con-
tribute anything towards its investment program during the period. ELETROBRAS
is CHESF's major creditor accounting for about 80% of its debt outstanding as
of December 31, 1978. The appropriateness of the terms of ELETROBRAS loans
for Brazilian utilities forms part of the on-going Bank analysis of ELETROBRAS
financing policies.
5.06      CHESF's financial results for 1976-78 and forecasts through 1986 are
show in Annexes 5-5 through 5-9. The utility's debt-service will continue to
be high and hence it will not be able to contribute to the financing of its
investment program from its own resources. In connection with Loan 1008-BR
CHESF agreed not to incur any debt if its outstanding debt exceeds 66-2/3% of
its total fixed assets. To enable CHESF keep within this limitation ELETROBRAS
periodically converts a portion of its loans to CHESF into equity. This practice
has been instrumental in keeping CHESF's financial condition reasonable in the
past and it is expected that conversion of ELETROBRAS loans into equity will
continue to be necessary through the project's completion. To provide the
Bank further opportunity to monitor CHESF's borrowings, CHESF agreed not to
incur any long term debt without the Bank's concurrence if its debt service
coverage ratio falls below 1.5. CHESF's requirement for funds and sources of
financing during the project's 1980-1985 construction period are as follows:
Cr X 109         US$ X 10 9    _%
Requirements
Construction Program                 54.9             2.2
Working Capital & Others             (2.2)           (0.1)
52.7             2.1        100
Sources
Gross Internal Cash Generation       57.0             2.3         108
Less:  Debt Service                 (78.4)           (3-1)       (149)
Dividends                     (0.1)              -          -
Net Internal Cash Generation        (21.5)           (0.8)        (41)
Equity Investment                    14.9             0.5          28
Borrowing                            59.3             2 4         113
52.7             2.1        100



- 31 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Loan Agreements:
6.01      During negotiations CHESF, ELETROBRAS and/or the Federal Government,
as appropriate, agreed to the following:
(a)  CHESF would maintain its earnings at levels consistent with
sound public utility practices and in accordance with existing
legislation and would maintain its eligibility for transfers from
the GGF. The Government confirmed the understanding that DNAEE
would allow CHESF a return of 10% and that, beginning in 1981,
no part of this return would be deferred to future years
(para 1.16);
(b)  ELETROBRAS would (i) continue to improve the methodology it
uses in its planning efforts; (ii) complement the "Plan 95"
by the end of 1981; and (iii) continue to exchange views with
the Bank on sector planning (para 1.23);
(c)  ELETROBRAS and CHESF would submit audited financial
statements to the Bank not later than four months after the
end of each fiscal year (paras 2.03 and 2.13);
(d)  ELETROBRAS would take all action necessary to ensure
that the entire SINSC program is completed in accordance
with sound engineering, financial and public utility practice
(para 3.05);
(e)  ELETROBRAS would furnish to the Bank, not later than
June 30, 1981, the feasibility studies for the COS's of CEEE,
CESP, FURNAS and ITAIPU (para 3.05);
(f)  the Government and ELETROBRAS would provide the Bank the
opportunity to comment prior to making any changes in
power sector organization which could substantially affect
SINSC (para 3.06);
(g)  ELETROBRAS and CHESF would take all action necessary to
ensure timely completion of the Northeast telecommunica-
tions network (para 3.08);
(h)  ELETROBRAS would on-lend out of the proceeds of the loan
US$22 million to CHESF on terms and conditions similar to
the Bank loan (para 3.11);
(i)  ELETROBRAS would furnish to the Bank, not later than
June 30, 1981, a training program, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the installation, maintenance and operation of
SINSC (para 3.14);
(j)  ELETROBRAS would set up, by April 30, 1981 and thereafter
maintain, a panel to advise on implementation of the SINSC
program (para 3.15);



- 32 -
(k) ELETROBRAS would provide supplementary financing to CHESF
as may be necessary to complete its portion of the project
should funds available to CHESF for this purpose from other
sources be inadequate (para 5.01);
(1) The Federal Government would cause to be provided to ELETROBRAS,
and CHESF supplementary financing needed to complete the project
should funds available to them from other sources for this purpose
be insufficient (para 5.01); and
(m)  CHESF would not incur any long term debt without the Bank's
concurrence if its debt service coverage ratio falls below
1.5 (para 5.06).
Recommendation
6.02      With the assurances listed above, the project would constitute
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$54 million equivalent to ELETROBRAS.
The loan would be repaid over a period of 15 years including three years of
grace.



ELETROBRAS ORGANIZATION CHART
GENERAL
ASSEMB LY
MINS ATIVIE                                           FISCAL
COUNCJLCOUNCL
ECONOMY                                             PLANNING AND                        UTILITY                                 SYSTEMS|I
ADFINANCE           CRDIR   ATEN                  ENGINEERING                     MANAGEMENT                                OPERATION
DIRECTORATE              D T                          DIRECTORATE                      DIRECTORATE                              DIRECTORATE
E   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                             &    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  C~~~~~~EC
uJ            0~~~~~~~
c  R  U)         -     m~I                         '
World >nk -a21397



CHESF ORGANIZATION CHART
SHAREHOLDERS
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
ADMINISTRATIVE                                        FISCAL
COUNCIL                                          COUNCIL
PRESIDENCY
ECONOMI1C ANDE.                                                                                                                                       
FINANCIAL             SUPPLIES            ENGINEERING                                                     CONSTRUCTION                          OPERATIONS
O IR ECTORATE         D I R ECTOR ATE      D IR ECTORATE                                                   DIRECTORATE                           DIRECTORATE
_       .      E                                                                                0
X, 0                         Cl 
World 8ank-213'96
World Bank - 21396



- 35 -                                        ANNEX 3-1
CONTROL AREAS OF THE BRAZIL INTERCONNECTED POWER SYSTEM
FURNAS            CE
/      /    -
I                                                                       L
/~~~~~~~~00
NOTE
1 -The dashed lines indicate the Control Areas
2-- itaipu as part of F URNAS Control Area is currently under study             World Bank - 21393



ANNEX 3-2
-36 -                    Page I of 3
1 Technical Project Details
For the GCOI/ELETROBRAS portion of the project (mainly the CSC) and
for the LIGHT (Rio and Sao Paulo) and the CHESF portions the implementation and
procurement arrangements would be along the following lines:
(a)  The "Real-Time" (On-Line) Supervision System (RTSS) for the
CSC is to be acquired--under ICB--from a single prime contractor
who would be expected to provide extensive on-site support after
delivery of the RTSS. He would also be requested to offer as an
option a set of application software which would be fully documented,
in addition to the design, manufacture, integration, factory testing,
delivery and placing the RTSS into operation. (Some of the more
advanced application software would likely be developed by CEPELI/
staff in cooperation with specialized staff from the major operating
tutilities). The prime contractor would be responsible for the
integration of software provided by him and by others and assume
full responsibility for the system's performance during an extended
guarantee period. The RTSS would include:
(i) Computers;
(ii) Peripherals;
(iii) Man-machine interface equipment;
(iv) Communication subsystem equipment; and
(v) Application and support software.
(b) The top and next to top hierarchical level (the CSC and the ten
COSs ) of the overall Supervision and Coordination
System (SINSC) would follow the structure shown in Annex 3-10
1/ Centro de Pesquisas de Energia Eletrica (Grupo ELETROBRAS).



- 37 -                  ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 3
Necessary COS facilities would be acquired when needed as complete
systems under ICB.! , mainly consisting of the Data Acquisition and
Control Systems (DACSs) of the regional and area (state) supply
companies or the expansion or adaptation of existing DACSs currently
being established. Each DACS would have:
(i) a computer-based master station (use of the analogue technique
would not meet requirements of overall economy, flexibility and
state-of-the-art requirements);
(ii) remote terminal units (RTUs); and
(iii) supporting telecommunication networks to the degree needed by
the ten companies owning the COSs for supervision and
control of their operating area.
Each company's master station equipment (located at its System
Operation Center - COS) would have for the master station a dual
(redundant) computer configuration with modern man-machine interfaces
(CRTs). The DACSs would provide the functions of:
(i) digital Automatic Generation Control (AGC);
(ii) supervisory control of the transmission system;
(iii) data acquisition;
(iv) energy management (such as production scheduling, load shedding,
voltage control); and
(v) network analysis.
1/ The Brazilian manufacturers are not expected to be able to supply such systems
during the project period.



- 38 -                     ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 3
(c) Computer-to-Computer Data Links. The ten companies currently
own extensive and efficient microwave or UHF telecommunication
systems or are in the process of acquiring and installing them,
The channel facilities are or will be ample and
can accomodate the requirements of SINSC at a relatively small
cost, requiring mainly only patching facilities for intercompany
transfer of information. The transfer to and from the CSC (and
each company's DACS) will be achieved by two four-wire full duplex
channels (with route diversity to a maximum extent).
2.        The functions to be performed by the CSC on-line facilities are summarized
below:
(a) production scheduling;
(b) continuous production supervision;
(c) continuous transmission system operations supervision;
(d) network studies (such as real-time network modeling, operational
power flow analysis, and means to assist corrective rescheduling);
(e) operations reporting; and
(f) training, maintenance, and programming.
The communications links    will provide for computer-to-computer communication
and provide for the use of programmer terminals for real-time data and message
transfers.



BRAZIL
Power System Coordination Project
Summary Project Cost Estimate
(In USS Million)
ELETROBRAS                                 CHESF                       TOTAL PROJF T
foreign       Local       Total       Foreign        Local       Total        Foreign       Local        Total
I-Part A (Supervisory & Control System)
Infrastructure                              0.1              2.9         3.0                       3.0          3.0         0.1            5.9        6.o
Equipment & Materials                      11.6              2.2        13.8        8.6            1.9         10.5        20.2            4.1       24.3
Engineering & Administration                1.2              2.6         3.8        2.5            8.1         10.6         3.7           10.7       14.4
Consultants                                 1.5              0.5         2.0        0.8            0.5          1.3         2.3            1.0        3.3
Training                                    1.3              o.4         1.7        0.4            1.2          1.6         1.7            1.6        3.3
Studies & Projects                           -               1.2         1.2         -             0.7          0.7          -             1.9        1.9
Subtotal (Base cost)/2/                  15.7              9.8        25.5       12.3            15.4        27.7        28.0           25.2       53.2
Physical Contingencies                       2.9             2.0         4.9        1.9              2.3        4.2         4.8            4.3        9.1
Subtotal (before price contingency)     18.6             11.8        30.4       14.2            17.7        31.9        32.8           29.5       62.3
Price contingencies                         8.j              4.5        13.0        7.8              8.2       16.0        15.9           12.7       28.6
Total (Supervisory & Control)              27.1             16.3        43.4       22.0            25.9        47.9        48.7           42.2       90.9
------
II-Part B (Telecommunication System)                                                   2
Commur'cations (Base Cost) ) j-             0.3              2.8         3.1        2.1            11.9        14.0         2.4           14.7       17.1
Physical Contingencies                      0.1              0.5         o.6        0.3              1.8        2.1         o.4            2.3        2.7
Price Contingencies                         0.2              1.2         1.4        1.2              6.6        7.8         1.4            7.8        9.2
Total (Telecommunications)                o.6              4.5         5.1        3.6            20.3        23.9         4.2           24.8       29.0
Total (SINSC System)                     27.7             20.8        48.5       25.6             46.2       71.8         53.3          67.0      120.3
---- -- -- -- - - - - - - -- - - -- --- -- - -- - - -- ---- --- -- - - --- -- - - - -- -- - -- -- - - - --- - -- - - - - -- - --- - -- - - - -- - -- -- -- - -- - - - - ----- - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -- - -
III-Part C (Sector Training Program)
Training (Bess Cost)                       4.2            12.8        17.0                                                 4.2          12.8        17.0
Physical Contingency                       0.2             0.8         1.0                                                0.2            0.8        1.0
Price Contingency                          0.6             1.4         2.0                                                0.6            1.4        2.0
Total (Sector Training)                 5.0             15.0        20.0                                                5.0           15.0       20.0
Total Project                          32.7             35.8       68.5        25.6             46.2       71.8        58.3           82.0      140.3    z
v The Base Cost estimates shown here are in December 1978 prices.  In para 3.08 of the text, these costs were indexed by the 1979 price contingency factor of
12% to reflect December 1979 price levels.
2,/ Exchange rate used was US$1 = Cr.20.447
Revised 12/2/80



- 40 -                    ANNEX 3-4
A
I    0000  - 0    N                   I    - -
0 N 0040        4 N4.0           I    10fl
00  N N   0 C 40               -4  o
-                   I    N
o  NflNNOO                             i                   -z
- 0.0  CI     01
-        00000   .040  00                          I
00000   0.0 NO  N                   000 0   OIl
(.40400N0N1  I  ON 01
o        1 N N         0'' 4   41                   -r     OIl
A                      .  -  -     -I                  I     Nil
0      N N            0 NON    01   I    ON  Or NI
ON            4 NON    or           0.04101
100          4                0(N   NI         N   Nj0
0.0    4 NO 04400104   I  0001 NI
400N      004  III  >                         to-Il
04004      4,.r,0   0-.              - 4j
0         --             NOO                               ii
0%0 000  000 C N
0        NO  0 0 0    0 4 N 4   C                           NIl
0        N 10 ,OON    40  40   N                            0,1
o                       N          N                        NI
A                                       I                   N
4          N              N 044    01   I                     ci
0  0                      NN)    41                           41.
404                                       I -   -
0.                                      1*
0.0      NO  00         004        0    I                   Oil
0 0004 .000 1- '
0      0   0   0   N  0   N   4   1.    (-I  I             .1
N NH -0 I .Ojj
0000     NOON    .-               41         411
NO 00 ONONO  4                          1
4100    0    4 N 40   A                    I      :
4
NO         0              00                           NI
0             0 2I   
NI        NO.0
I.
0          0.0      0000           N 00 '.0        l   4  NI 01
0      0 N 0 4        0 4 0 -0
0           .      N              N               I                   41
0           0
0          0  044000  4000 N
i 0       -         N                   ON   Nj
0           N 4 N4   N           41    4        NIl
(10      N  4          4           4               I            0      411
o  0                                             NO1  NI
0     000010                                                         NI
O 40       1.
A    00      0.-
00        0.0      N 000          44  N 4   0    I   ON                  II
10 -  (0       0       C NO  4        N 004    4
00     .  o       4   N N        - NON   0
00               000000   04
N        0    04 N 000   0440  N  I  400 N    Oil
WA         0      -                N   N -  4
o  10     A
000  N4                   'o                       101
400001   0000
+
000000   000 N 0                            I 01  NI
404000  0004  0                             I I
0004    -0   04  ON   N                     I  I
101      00
04000    044 N N                             41  NO
00  N 04        4000    0                  I  I
0   N N       4 N 0 4  4                 I  I
0                                                      000
-     I0         (140       40
I                400         >0
4<         04 0   N 1.4                                 00
0    00           00  040  0.0
1.1 1.0 0         010 4    04          0 0 4 0  1
0  0   00             10 II 44
I 0 0 0 0 00
04  0 0  0   01..' 01.)       0 0 0 0
I
0000004    0  4 0 0 0                 0 0 4 3.                 04
'-010410100  0   0. N 0.1-(        ON  0.0.
4 N                                 -



BRAZIL
POWER SYSTEM COORDINATION PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COST AND DISDURSEMENT SCHEDULE OF CIRSF SUBPROJECT 1/ 4
(in uDS 000
1980                             1981                          1982                          1983                               1984                           1985                      TOTAL
Foreign       | LoForei~ft~i1  Inotic              1               Tla,       L.ocl         F-inT.             Lo..l           Fo-irelSn       L-ocal         Eernn           Local F1ii-                I L..aI    GRAND
Diroot  IndSroc2J.|            Dire       ndOcEt  I                            t     _  ADt-                                    Dirt    Inrre   I             Drect   Indirect I            Direct  Indi-ct               TOTAL
A.  S-ueris-o  and control- 1
1. Infra-lr-ct.rn                                                      15                              649                          1894                              385                             85                                                        3028      3028
2. Eq.ipmn.t aod earecla                                                       2275         79         455       819         79      454      2138        80          476       1933          82     475        1130                          8315      320      186C    10495
3. E.gi.eer.sg and adm .nlatratio-                                    577       657                   2295       127                1779       567                   1805        659                :353         482                 306      2492               8135    10617
4. Cons-ltaotn                                  180                   150       135                     75        85                   25       85                     15        135                   75         180                150       800                500      1300
;. Tra-tn-8                                      74                  252         75                    302        75                 303        75                    254         75                   50          75                 50       449               1211      1660
6, Studi-n                                                            100                              1EO                            Iso                             100                              0                              tOo                         650       650
7. BDse .cet .1  (Supnrv.    coctrol)           254                 1094       3162         79        3876      1106         79     4625      2865        80         3045       2802          82    2138        1867                 606    12056       320    15384    27760
8. PhyIca1  -onting-ncy                          38                   164       474         12         581       166         12      696       430        12          457        420          12      321         280                 91      1808       48      2307      4163
9.   Sobtotal (7 o 8)                           292                  1258      3636         91        4457      1272         91     5319      3295        92         3502       3222          94    2459         2147                697    13864       368    17692    31924
10. Pr Io  canting-cy                             68                  292       1225         31        1502       565         40     2362      1819        51         1933       2230          62    1625         1732                530      7639      184      8244    16067
ti. Total Coat (Superv.    control)              360                  1550      4S61        122        5999      1837        131     7681      5114       143         5435       5452         156    4084         3879               1227    21503       552    25936    47991
B. Tninconaeonlcatlons 2/
1. Teleconm   cate nons) 3/ 3/                                                                                                                                                             31                                                 2100              11900    14000
2. Phy.li-l  -ootinge-oy                                                                                                                                                                                                                       300               1800      2100
3. Price contingency                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1200               6600      7700
4.  otal Cost (T.lacom-)                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3600             20300    23800
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                                                                                                                                                                                      25J03      552    46236    T1791
1/  B.se cost -ati-et-s e  in constant Dece-b-r 1978 pria.
2/  total cant of ChESF's nolciporpo-n t-loc-  ia US027162 2 OllIlon '(liolodig U8570.3 m of forE.gn) of
thIl 0S"23.O m (i.cl dlog US$3.6 m fore-ig) 1-allocatnd to SNINC on the bals of channel usage.
31  Aru-l diabuTse-nt not shown for tlecommunliotiO.  co-pocent becfa.e the cost sho-n is no a1ocation
bend or choc-et uPs.e aDd dons cot r-pren..t phyolc-l1y identlfisble projeot 0its.
4/  Enchaogn -to ...d .ac US$SlCr20.47.



- 42 -                                                      ANNEX 3-6
Power System Coordination Project
Implementation Schedule of ELETROBRAS Subproject
1979         1980         1981         1982          1983         1984
1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4 1  2  3  4
I. Supervisory and Control System
A. RTSS
1. Bidding Process                                                X   X X  X  X
2. Manufacturing of Support Supply System                                          X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
3.  Preparation of Application Software                           X   X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
4.  TraininS                                                                         X X  X  X  X   X X       X
5.  Installation                                                                                              X X   X X
6.  Comaissioning                                                                                                          X X   X X
B. Off-line Information Subsystem
7. Specification                                                  X   X
8. Preparation                                                           XX X  X X  X X X X X X  X X
9. Training                                                                          X X   X X   X X    X    X X  X X  X  X
10.  Implementation                                                                           XX X X X    X  ZX X             X  X X  X
C.  SINSC Data bank
11.  Specification                                                 X   X
12. Preparation of On-ltine and Off-line
Programs                                                           X  X  X  X  X                         X X
13.  Training                                                                          X X                           X X
14.  Implementation                                                                                                         X X X  X
II. Telecoemunication
1.  Demand Studies                                              X   X X
2.  Circuit Test for Utilities                                  X  X  X   S
3.  Telephone Network                                              X  X   X  X  S
4.  Supervision & Communications                                          X  X  X  X
5. Acquisition of Site for CSC                                  X  X  X
6.  Survey of Inter-Utility Links                                             X  X  X
7. Survey of CSC Links                                                        X   X X
8.  Comsunication Infrastructure definition                                      X  X
9.  Selection of Configuration of SINSC                                       X  X  X
10.  Bidding Process                                                                           X X X
11.  Fabrication,  Transportation & Installation                                                  X  X  X  X  X
12. Acceptance Period                                                                                       X  X   X  X
13.  Guarantee Period                                                                                                     XX X   X X 
14.  Integration of System                                                                                                X  X  X  X  X  X
III. Building & Auxiliary Equipment
1.  Hiring of Consultants                                     X  X
2   Land Purchase                                           X  X
3. Architectual Studies                                               X   X  X
4. Engaging Contractors                                                       X  X
S. Work Statement Preparation1/                                               X  X  X  X  X
6.  Site Preparation                                                       X  X
7. Construction                                                                  X  X  X  X  X  X; X  X  X
B. Purchasing and Installation of Power
Supplies & Batteries                                  X X  X        X X X X X XX            XIX
9. Purchasing and Installation of Fire Protection           X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X I X  X  X
10.  Design Procurement and Installation of Micro-
wave Towers                                                                      X  x  x  x ix  x
1/ Work statement is the period after award of contract when detailed programs (statements) are prepared for the details of the
implementation steps of the project, including system design and engineering, software preparation kprograming) procurement,
and other steps until satisfactory conmercial operation is reached for the system.



CHESF IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1979             1980                        1981                        1982                       1983                        1884                        1989                        1986                        1987
4      1     2      3      4       1     2      3      4       1     2      3      4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3      4
and F-n1i Proced- .s_
2  S-odord I., inn OC..plori- of
InffnltivcninmEhn SE and USPiEM,
3  MKO,l-caI-on E--c ..IO  Plannmng
On h. SEIUS IG-pe I & 21
4  E-.-cunon of Mndrfi-ca-ons i                                    _
The SE/US (Gro-p   & 21
S  SPTcrf,cafron InalOlne+                                                                                                 
6  Prepacafion of The P;cPPOe|-
7  Ana-psy Of t.  P     1op .osals_
8  Co--racI and W50k S-afnmnn-
8  fnlfrnal PrOpcnjOrrf for Impiomeng p              
10  Msnofacfors Planning nM SCS
11  Maoofdclirn of SCS ESorpmnnf                                                                      - I          - _  _  _      _      _-                                                                               
and SoWfwann fnfcgreiro_
12  Manu-fan-re nI 8.mof                                                                                                                        7 Confrl_
U-ll far G-ope I ond 2
13  F        ctorv 1__f_
14  Tr-nWpnnfa-lo- ot Eqpmenf                                                                                                                                _
15. fnffefaronol Eqirpmnnt_
rOy n-d COS5
16  fnsfaiiann Hntmot Con-ro_
17  intallaf inn Of PeA-o3e Contro                                                                                                                    -      - _            - _           - _           -            -
Uflife- G-np 2
18   neeina   f Ad-ace  Soft..er
19  Field Te.. f
7D  Corn- -sionog of SCS
21  P-annnd4 id nvWfa._                                                          _                                                                                                                                                                                  i
I.o, COS Snilding
22  C-netr-ofion of 8E,ding
23  Coapera..on e.. -een CHESF and
24  Man.facfnre               f InilafioO nI
fRH ofa ConfrOl Ui Sn Gr-ps 3 (2 phi                                                                                                                                                                                                  -             - _           -       -      l
25  Impl-.Ienfelo of Adenca-d
KrO9arn I2nd ft..ee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       on     go I
TRANSDUCERS
23  S.e.. of Need fr Trantducae-
27  El&.ora.Ion of T.e0,rc-l end
Commercial Spanf-n...ions
28  Infernal Prnpwur-e fI r Irp.i.nq                          _
29  SPani..a.in.s. a nA*
30  Prapsrafion 0l Proplt 1_
3f  Anniosisol Propasals                                                    _ _                                                                          
32  Men.l-fcr.r.g                                                                  _
33  Dnio-Vn 0f Maf-al                                                                   A             A             4*
HYDROMETEORAL NETWOR!S
34  Acoi iiron Of  I-odromlr Masfer
and Coordination --h SCS Suppior
JbD-'Igi rd,  A-IaN-i f, th. Rtm-                         _             __.,.  _.   
ilcdriinei                                                                                                                                                  
36  EIai.inr..on o Teohrca ,and!
31  S-0-i-linOOroc -son-co
38  P---naio 0f Proposal-                                                          _
39  A-alrnisof Procc-als
40  Meir- 9nil - oOliM Plans -cd, Siplnr
41  M  -f--ur u E-uP-1n                                                                                                                ,lMdl |-l_| m 
4f 2            -nnlTc     f R.nn rpoierr
42loIccivininarrn 00TeonicS ci  moin ConrroillltAts  t  
4d l3srllon 0r M>lrn Or--ron & Fr1ld Tsfst
44  Ielalo  wPS,:! ion l|eI  
45  irinrocrorronM'
ANDO PANE IS
Worldf 8nk   21If391



CONFIGURATION OF SINSC
AREA CONTROL            E L  R                                                                                        R
COMPANY SYSTEM            SL        CEEE       CEL       FURNAS      CEMIG       TAPI       CESP       CHS         OTE
OPERATIONS CENTERS        SUL
4:-
To Company Regional
Operations Centers
DISTRIBUTION
COMPANY SYSTEM           CELESC     CELG        CEB      ESCELSA      LIGHT      CBEE       CEMAT       CPFL       LIGHT
OPERATIONS CENTERS                                                     RIO
COMPANY
REGIONAL
OPERATIONS
CENTERS
World Bank - 21394



Power System Coordination Project
ELETROBRAS
Financial Indicators 1976-86
Actual                                                        Forecast
1976      1977       1978           1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986
1 Times annual debt service covered
by gross internal cash generation ei            4.0        4.1        3.2            2.2        2.3        1.5        2.5        2.6        2.5        2.5       2.5
2 Net Internal Cash generation as
% of total financial require-
ments                                          31         28         26             15         29         13         32         35         35         35        34
3 Total consumer based contribu-
tiona am % of total financial
requirements                                   75         68         65             53         92         76         97         99         99        100      100
l4 Borrowing as % of total financial
requirements                                   24         30         35             30          8         23          2          _                     _         _
5  Debt/Equity Ratio                               45/54      51/49      49/51          59/41      58/42      60/40      59/41       59/41    59/41       59/41    59/41                   4s
LA
6  Average yield on capital invest-
ment bJ                                         6.9        8.5        0.1
7 Average yield on loan invest-
melnts s/                                      14.5       12.9       11.8
8 Average yield on total
investments #/                                 11.9       11.6        7.6
9  Average cost of borrowing                          6.o       6.5         5.7
10 Rate of return on total capitaliza-
tion e/                                         8.4        7.5        8.1
Notes
a' Grosa internal cash generation divided by debt service
2/Reveniues from shareholdings divided by average investments in capital stock
c/  Revenues from loans divided by average investments in loans
ReveIiUes from shareholdings and ]oans divided by average total investments
Net incDme divided by the average at' equity and long term debt outstanding



Power System Coordination ProJect
ELETROBRAS
Sources and Uses of Funds 1979-86
in millions of June 1979 Cruzeiros                                              Total
1979             1980        1981      1982        1983        1984        1985              1986      1980-85
Sources
Net Operating Income                                            32980             39941      47485       55328      60467       67104       77420            90002       347745
Less:  non-cash additions to revenuel!                          (5308)            (5672)      (7546)     (9298)     (6060)      (3413)      (2262)            (1596)     (34251)
Plus:   Loan amortization receipts                               5815             10427      13157       15921      20279       24364       28447            32994       113075
Gross Internal Cash Generation                             33487             44696      53096       61951      75166       88055     103605            121400       426569
Less:  Interest                                                 10643             14558      14544       15966      17798       19602       21606             23844      104074
Debt Repayment                                            4747             4785       22084       9295       11129       15232      20177             25541        82642
Debt Service                                           15390            19343       36625       25261      26927       34384      4                 49385       18776
Less:  Net Dividends                                             5460              5130       5876        7611       8620        9243      10185             11868        46665
Total Deductions                                           20850            24473       42504      32872       37547       44077      51968             61253       233441
Net Internal Cash Generation                               12637             20223      10592       29079      37619       43978      51637             60147       193128
Sector Contributions
Sole Tax                                                       2930              3854       4228        4693       5467       6123        6953              8031        31318
Reversion                                                     15684             23248      27775       33044      37915       43904      53281             65203       219167
Compulsory Loan                                               12577             16913      19053       21736      26146       30599      36274             43804       150721
Total                                                      31191            44015       51056       59473      69528       80626      96508            117038       401206
Total Consumer-based contributions                              43828             64238      61648       88552     107147      124604     148145            177185       594334
Government Contributions                                         3755                -          -           -          -          _           _
Borrowings                                                      24511              5617      18746        2207        405         -           -                 -         26975
Others                                                          10179               134        153         176        203         234         269               309        1169
Total Sources of Funds                                     82273            69989       80547      90935      107755     124838      148414            177494       622478
Uses of Funds
Equity  Investments                                             12090             12671       20538      27234      19572       15186       17661             20040      112862
Loan and Advances                                               67807             51932      56971       60482      81568      102350     123106             148635      476409
Others                                                           2376              5386       3038        3219       6615        7302        7647              8819       33207
Total Uses of Funds                                        82273            69989       80547      90935      107755     124838      148414            177494       622478
t/  In addition to depreciation , this includes unrealized gains from investments in subsidiaries and
associated companies.
Revised 12/2/80



Power System Coordination Project
ELETROBRAS
Actual and Forecast Income Statements 1976-1986
In millions of Cruzeiros
(Forecast In June 1979 Currency)
Actual (In Current Currency)                                                        1979
1976     1977     1978           1979      1980     1981      1982     1983      1984     1985      1986
Revenues            s                         1253     2316        40        10602      15215    18680    22044    21396    21224    22452    23295
From Loans & Financing                      4245     6830    12877         25031      27691    32161    37056    43268    50562    60222    72609
From Other Sources                           798       922     131                 -         -             -         -        -         -         -
Total Revenues                          6296    10068    13048          35633     42906    50841    59100    64664    71786    82674    95904
Expenses
Admin., General & Other Expenses             631      974     1372          2653       2965     3356      3772      4197     4682      5254     5902
Net Operating Income                        5665     9094    11676         32980      39941    47485    55328    60467    67104    77420    90002
Interest Payments                             1325     2687    4622           10643     14558    14544    15966    17798    19602    21606    23844
Income before tax                           4340     6407     7054         22337      25383    32941    39362    42669    47502    55814    66158
Income Tax                                    _        -       454           737        641      893      3068      3752    4618       5845     7486
After Tax Income                            4340     6407      6600        21600      24742    33834    36294    38917    42884    49969    58672
Plus:  Net Monetary Adjustment b              _        -       7525            -         -         -        _-                 -         -         - 
Net Income                              4340      6407    14125         21600      24742    33834    36294    38917    42884    49969    58672         >
a/ Beginning in 1979 unrealized gains from investments (i.e. the difference between the equity value and cost of investments) are reflected
in revenues from shareholdings.
b/ In 1978 this account consisted of net monetary variation (Cr$ 10,003 million) and net monetary correction of fixed assets and
equity (Cr$ 9,478 million).
Revised 12/2/80



Power System Coordination Project
ELETROBRAS
Balance Sheets 1976-86
(In 100 million cruzeiros)
In Current Prices                                         In June 1979 Prices
As of' December 31,                  1976      1977      1978          1979      1280      1981       1982      1983       1984      1985       1986
Assets
Fixed Assets                                        3          4         7
Current Assets
Cash & Equivalent                                14        15         56           10         9         12        12         14        17         20        23
Other Current Assets                             36        94        126          104       132        159       208        244       284        330       396
Total                                       50       109       182           114       141       171        220       258        301       350        419
Investments
Loans                                           388       690       1365         2030       2410      2812      3200       3761      4489       5371      6445                1
Capital Stock                                   228       316        914         1622      1849       2146      2527      2811       3023       3247      3479
Total                                      616      1006      2279          3652      4259      4958       5727      6572       7512      8618       9924               CO
Total Assets                               670      1120      2468          3766      4400      5129       59147     6830       7813      8967      10342
Liabilities & Capital
Long Term Debt                                    283       511       1107         171S       1942      2494      2940       3419      3947       4569      5327
Currenit Liabilities                               33        80        142          107        287       181       232        287       356        440       534
Capital & Reserves                                351       525       1218         1183      1407       1691      2011       2358      2751       3185      3706
Deferred Credits & Liabilities                    294       377         -           761       763        764       764        766       769        772       775
Total Liabilities & Capital                670      1120      2468          3766      4400      5129       5947      6830       7813      8967      10342



Pover System Coordination ProJect
CHES_
Financial Indicators
1976         1977      1978        1979      190         198 1       1982                    1984       198          19856
1.  Finarncial Rate of Return ia(%)                       17         17        12         10.3        8.6         9.0        9.6        12.2        14.1        12.0        10.2
2.  Operating Ratio    (%)                                40         35        39         36         39         38          38          34          32          48          56
3.  Debt Service Coverage Ratio                            1.1        o.6        0.5       o.6        o.6        o.6         0.7         0.8         0.9         0.7         0.7                4s
4.  Self-financing Ratio .                                 3                    L          S          v          S/                                    / v  L    V          V                   %0
5.  Debt/Equity Ratio i                                 65/35        71/29     65/35      67/37      69/31       69/31      68/32       65/35       61/39        59/41       58/42
6.  Receivables at year end (days sales)                 162        106        60         56         60         60          60          60           60         60          60
7.  Depreciation as % Average Gross Plant                             3.1       3.4        3.3        3.0         3.2         3.5         3.6         3.6         3.7         3.7
N/ Ret operating income (excluding reversion and transfers from global reserve fund) as % of average net fixed assets in operation
b/ Operating expenses divided by operating revenues
Gross internal cash generation divided by debt service
Net internal cash generation as % of total financial resources
Net divided by debt plus equity
Negative self-financing ratio



- 50 -
ANNEX 5-6
Pover System Coordination Project
C8ESF
Sources and Applications of Funds
(In millions of June 1979 Cruzeiros)
Total
1979       1980       1981      1982      1983      1984      1985       1986      1980-1985
Sources of Funds
Net operating income                      3,000       3,362      4,585    5,525    7,686       9,095    7,278      6,013       37,531
Depreciation                              1,368       1,947      2,710    3,427    3.692       3.753    3,953      4 350       19.482
Total                                   4,368       5,309      7,295    8,952   11,378    12,848   11,231    10,363          57,013
Less: Debt service
Amortization
Interest
Total                                   7,405                               9,233    1 8 3,07 1 4,042  4,942 5   15,31359    78,387
Dividends                                   428         632                                      993    1,546      1,654        3,171
Less reinvested dividends                   414         610       _         _                    959    1,494      1.599        3.063
Net dividends                             14          22                                       34        52        55          108
Net internal cash generation               (3,051)    (3,946)   (4,487)  (4,055)  (2,664)   (2,128)  (4,202)   (5,051)    (21,482)
Equity Investments
ELETROBRAS  loans converted to equity   1,199         2,045      2,257    3,000    2,900       2,500    2,000      1,000       14,702
Advances for construction                    797        114        120                                                            234
1,996      2,159      2,377    3,000   -Y2,900      2,500    2,000      1,000       14,936
Borrowing
Local loans                               8,525       9,885      8,877    6,231    6,894       7,166    8,881      9,428       47,934
Foreign Loans                             3,310       4,233      4,268    2,166   _  665        _         _                    11.332
Total                                  11,835      14,118    13,145    8,397    7,559        7,166    8,881      9,428       59,266
Total Sources of Funds                   10,780      12,331    11,035    7,342    7,795        7,538    6,679      5,377       52,720
Uses of Funds
Construction program                     11,413      12,622    11,432    7,707    8,277.    7,822    7,025         5,571       54,885
Net working capital changes                (559)       (212)      (331)    (331)    (445)       (250)    (320)      (180)      (1,889)
Cash surplus (deficit)                       (74)       (79)       (66)     (34)      (37)       (34)     (26)       (14)        (276)
Total Uses of Funds                      10,780      12,331    11,035    7,342    7,795        7,538    6,679      5,377       52,720



Power System Coordination Project
CHESF
Income Statement 1976-86
(In millions of June 1979 Cruzeiros)
Actual                                                                Forecast
1976       1977        1978             1979         1980         1981        1982         1983         1984       1985         1986
Operating Reveniues                 1419        2462       3711              6476         8075       10854        13232       16099        17733       19967       21591
Operating E:xpenses
Operations & Maintenaznce          366         526        740               962         1173        1418         1569        1804         1913        5617        7816
Depieciation i/                    183         325        714              1368        1947         2710         3427        3692         3753        3953        4350
Reversion b/                       220         453        709              1146         1593        2141         2711        2917         2972        3119         3412
Other Expenses                      15          20                                                                     r_
Total                            784       1324        2163              3476        4713         6269        7707         8413         8638      12689        15578
Net Opetating Iincome               635        1138       1548              3000         3362        4585         5525         7686        9095        7278         6013
Lees:   InLerest Charges             143         759       1004              2082         3355        4322         5701         5632        5412        5446         5675
Net Other Expenses (revenuies) i  (111)       (143)      (377)             (619)        (877)        (647)       (43)         (811)      (1400)      (             152
t'otal Deductions from ITrcome    32       616         627              1463        2478         3675         4858        4821         4012        3647        4147
Net Income                         603         522        921              1537          884         910         667          2865        5083        3631         1866
j )epr,ciation estinmated at about '3 of depreciable plant. Beginning 1979 amortization quota of capitalized interest has been included
J  Revevsioni includes the reserve f'or global guarantee and estimated at 3.5% of remunerable assets (2.5% in 1979).
e/  Tri:udes income f'rom investments, profits (loss) on sale of assets, etc.



Power System Coordination Project
CHESF
Forecast Cost of Service
(In millions of June 1979 Cruzeiros)
1979       1980        1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986
Remunerable Gross Plant a/                     40329       55266      74711       93742      100595      102455      107556      117315
Interest Capitalized b/                         1217        3969       9572       14144       16003       16275       17918       21468
Materials and Supplies                           185         268         381        491         532         542         573         635
Total                                       41731      59503       84664      108377      117130      119262      126047      139418
Less:
Accumulated Depreciation c/                     4421        6022        8149      10861       13968       17206       20536       24085
Amortization reserve (of Idc) b/                 681         765         968       1325        1777        2262        2771        3359
Donations and Contributions d/                  2144        2144        3341       3370        3371        3370        3584        3584
Prior Years Shortfall                            -         (1884)     (5023)      (9756)    (13191)    (15264)    (19891)    (27464)
Total Deductions                             7246        7047        7435       5800        5925        7574        7000        3562
Remunerable Investment                         34485       52456       77229     102577      11205       111688      119047      135856
Cost of Service
Remunerable Investment e/                       3000        5246        7723      10258       11120       11168       11905       13586
Operating Expenses                               941        1093        1335       1484        1716        1822        2063        2227
Depreciation c/                                 1368        1947        2710       3427        3692        3753        3953        4350
Reversion f/                                    1146        1593        2141       2711        2917        2972        3119        3412
CCC (Fuel) Quota                                  21          80          83         85          88          91          94          97
Total                                        6476        9959      13992       17965       19533       19806       24594       29164
Sales (GWh)                                    13895       16140      19711       21902       25334       26893       30451       32882
Average price (CrkWh) g/                         44          50          55          60         64          66          66          66
Sales Revenue                                   6057        8075      16854       13232       16099       17733       19967       21591
Receipts from Global Guarantee Fund              419         -           -          -           -           -           -           -
Total                                        6476        8075      10854       13232       16099       17733       19967       21591
Revenue Shortfall                                -         (1884)      (3139)     (4733)       3435       (2073)      (4627)      (7573)
a/  Principal difference from balance sheet item is pro-rating of plant additions.
b/  Decree No. 1506/76 requires interest on construction works to be put in a separate account and amortized over
the useful life of the asset after construction is completed.
ci/  Depreciation was estimated at the rate of about 3% of average gross fixed assets.                                                           n
d/  Contributions by consumers and other third parties are not remunerable.
e/  Equivalent to 10% of remunerable investment (8.7% in 1979)
f/  Reversion and Global guarantee quota were estimated as 3.5% (2.5% in 1979 of remunerable investment.
In the forecasts, effect of 55% tariff increase in November 1979 was not considered inasmuch as the forecasts are in June 1979
constant cruzeiros.  CHESF assumed a 10% tariff increase in 1980 and 1981 and 5% per year in each of 1982, 1983 and 1984.



Power System Coordination Project
CHESF
Balance Sheets 1976-86
(In millions of Cruzeiros)
Actual (Current Prices)                                          Forecast (Constant June 1979 Prices)
As of December 31,                           1976         1977        1978             1979        1980        1981        1982         1983        1984         1985        1986
ASSETS
Gross Plant in Service                     7195       14050        27425           54567        74434       93372      100321      102118       104316      110855       123776
Accumulated Depreciation                   (748)      (1297)       (3192)          (5112)      (6940)       (9363)    (12365)      (15576)      (18840)     (22256)    (25962)
Accumulated Amortization                   (227)       (311)        (561)           (665)        (665)       (665)       (665)       (665)        (665)       (665)        (665)
6220       12442       23672            48790       66829       83344       87291        85877       84811        87934       97149
Conistruction in Progress                 10035       16827        34189           29895       22651        15144       15903       22382        28006       28494        21143
Exchange adjustment                         434         871           -
Total Fixed Assets                16689       30140        57861            78685       89480       98488      103194       108259      112817       116428      118292
Current Assets
Cash                                      541         839          370             499         611          764         896        1054         1144        1268         1357
Accounts Receivable                       633         715         615             1004         1338        1798        2192        2667         2938        3308         3577
Materials and Supplies                    177           72         144             250          361         475         526          540         552          590         670
Other Current Assets                       40          47         624             1252        1698         2304        2816        3435         3789        4270         4619
Total                              1391         1673        1753             3005        4008        5341         6430        7696        8423         9436       10223                1
Ul
Deferred Debits                              38           37       4524            10085        14261       17378       19178        21036       23732        26856       29570
Total                             18118        31850       64138            91396      107242      120571      128108       136274      144236       151940      157222
LIABILITIES & CAPITAL
Paid-in Capital                            3150        3560        4681             5267        6096         6707        7505         8272        9596        11298       12743
Reserves                                   2480        4573        15672           21172       23919        26256       29335        32422       36212        39986       42761
Surplus                                      15         210          241             214          177         394         184         1102        2985         2981        1696
Total Equiity                      5645         8343       20594            26653       30192       33357        37024       41796       48793        54265        57200
Long Term Debt                             9880       17960       34003            52470       61755        68918       70410        70204       69253        70199       71421
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                          721        1604        2204             3597        4796         6446        7859         9561       10532       11858        12823
Current Portion of Long Term Debt         558        2179        3577             2588        4832         5983        6906         7765        8117         7936        8205
Other Current Liabilities                                         428             1341          806         886         928         1967        2560         2701        2592
1279        3783        6209             7526       10434       13315        15693       19293        21209       22495        23620
Otber Liabilities
Deferred Credits                         1294         820           -
Contributions & Donations                  16         944        3332             4747        4861         4981        4981         4981        4981         4981        4981
i'otal                             1310         1764        3332             4747        4861        4981         4981        4981        4981         4981         4981        "
Total Liabilities                 12469       23507        43544            64743       77050       87214        91084       94478        95443       97675       100022
Total Liabilities & Capital        18118       31850       64138            91396      101242      120571       128108      136274       144236      151940       157222



EXHIBIT A
- 54 -
BRAZIL
POWER SYSTEM COORDINATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. REPORTS AND STUDIES ON THE SECTOR
A.1     GCOI Documentos basicos do GCOI
A.2     Eletrobras - Directoria de Operaqao de Sistemas
Sintese do Plano de Operaqao para 1979
das Regioes sudeste, nordeste e sul
Novembro/ 1978 - DEOP/DVEO
A.3     GCOI - Sudeste/Sul - Secretaria de Supervisao e Coordenagao -
ELETROBRAS diretoria de Operaqao de Sistemas
ltrimestre 1979 - Relatorio de Acompanhamento Energetico
A.4     GCOI - Secretaria de Supervisao e Coordena;ao
Relatorio Anual de Operaqao do Sistema Interligado - 1978
ELETROBRAS - Directoria de Operaqgo de Sistemas - DEOP/DVEO
A.5     GCOI - Sudeste/Sul - Secretaria de Supervisao e Coordena-ao
ELETROBRAS Diretoria de Operagao de Sistemas
1977 - Relatorio Anual de Operaqao do Sistema Interligado
(GCOI Annual Report - 1977)
A.6     GCOI - Secretaria de Supervisao e Coordena'ao
Relatorio Estat'stico de Operargo do Sistema Interligado - 1977
ELETROBRAS - Diretoria de Operacao de Sistemas DEOP/DVEO
(GCOI - Statistics on Operation of the Interconnected System -
1977)
A.7     GCOI - Sudeste/Sul - Secretaria de Supervisao e Coordena9ao -
ELETROBRAS Diretoria de Opera9ao de Sistemas
lTrimestre 1979 - Relatorio de Acompanhamento Energetico
(GCOI - Report on Energy Allocations)
A.8     GCOI - Secretaria de Supervisao e Coordenasao
Relatorio Anual de Operacao do Sistema Interligado - 1978
ELETROBRAS - Diretoria de Operaqao de Sistemas - DEOP/DVEO
(GCOI - Annual Report - 1978)
B. REPORT AND STUDIES ON THE PROJECT
B.1     Executive Summary of the Real-Time Supervision System; July
1979; prepared by Consorcio Hidroservice - SCI for ELETROBRAS.
B.2     Technical Specification for the Real-Time Supervision System
(in five volumes); December 1978; prepared by Consorcio
Hidroservice - SCI for ELETROBRAS.



- 55 -
B.3     Technical and Economic Justification of .he National Supervision
and Coordination Center
(a) Report No. 27 -
Consorcio Hidroservice - SCI (Systems Control Inc. in Palo
Alto, California)
October 1978
(b) Addendum No. 1, October 1978
(Cost Comparison of SSC Configurations)
(c) Addendum No. 2, January 1979
1. Demostrativo dos Custos de Investimentos do Projecto
CSC. (Demonstration of Cost of Investments of CSC)
2. Demostrativo dos Custos de Operaqao do Centro Nacional
de Supervisao e Coordina9ao. (Demonstration of
Operating Costs of the National Supervision and
Coordination Center)
3. Determinacao dos Beneficios minimos para a viabilidade
do Projeto CSC. (Determination of the Minimum benefits
for the Feasibility of CSC Project)
4. Consideracoes sobre os Beneficios Esperados do Projeto
CSC. (Considerations on the Benefits Expected from the
CSC Project)
(d) Anexos - January 1979
(e) Addendum #2 - Revisao - March 1979
(f) Anexos -
I through IV - March 1979
Annex I.     Brazil South East/South System operation data
to 1983.
Annex II.    Le despatching nationale de 1'E d F (The
national dispatching of EdF)
Annex III.   Hierarchical computer control for ENEL electric
system.
Annex IV.    Impact assessment of the 1977 New York city
black-out.
(g) Annexes V - IX March 1979



- 56 -
Annex V.     Auerbach computer technology report.
Annex VI.    Dispatcher training simulator
Annex VII.   Custos de construgoes no Brazil (Construction
costs in Brazil)
Annex VIII.  Orqamento Geral de investimentos com treinamento
de pessoal.
Annex IX.    Supervision and Coordination System Project -
Project Management Task.
(h) Anexo X - March 1979 - Relatorio #16 - Requisitos de Tele-
communicagoes do Sistema de Supervisao e Coordenarao
(actually prepared by Consorcio Hidroservice - SCI)
December 1977.
B.4     Convenio Para Implantagao do Sistema Nacional de Supervisao e
Coordenacao de Operaqao Interligade - SINSC (Agreement on the
Installation of the National Supervision and Coordination System
for Interconnected Operations)
ANNEX 1.   Exposigao de motivos No. 028/79 do Exmo. Sr. Ministro
dos Minas e Energia.
ANNEX 2.   Organizaqao para a implantaqao do SINSC.
ANNEX 3.   Directrivos basices para o funcionamento do SINSC.
B.5     System for Supervision and Coordination of the Operation of the
Brazilian interconnected Electrical System Technical Specification
for the Real-Time Supervision System Specification No. 1 - Volume
1, December 1978, Consorcio Hidroservice - SCI.
Contents:
Volume I
1.0   Introduction and Background
2.0   Executive Summary                                               *
Volume II
3.0   Man-machine interface operation requirements
4.0   Data communication requirements
5.0   Support Software
Volume III
6.0   Application Software



- 57 -
Volume IV
7.0   Hardware requirements
8.0   Overall RTSS requirements
9.0   Workmanship and standards requirements
10.0 Project implementation requirements
Volume V
Appendices:
A - Displays
B - Summary of reports
C - Content of structured messages
D - System documentation delivery schedule
E - Glossary of terms and abbreviations
F - Content of Data received and Data transmit file
Attachment
Hardware and software requirements for the interface between
the national center and the companies data acquisition and
control systems.
B.6     Commissao de estudos de criterios para programa;ao de inter-
cambios e sua contabiliza;ao - CEPIC
- Nova metodologia para programagao e contabiliza;ao de inter-
cambios energeticos no sistema interligado - furnas/cemig/
light - Sao Paulo/cesp/eletrosul
- Relatoria SCEN-CEPIC - 01/79
Marqo de 1979
B.7     Organizagao do Projeto de Implantaqao do SINSC  (Organization of
the Implementation of SINSC); September 1979, ELETROBRAS
B.8     Energy Management System (EMS) Planning Document; September 1978;
(in two volumes) prepared by THEMAG/STAGG for CHESF (Report is
the feasibility study for CHESF's COS)
B.9     Energy Management System (EMS) Procurement Spec; September 1979,
THEMAG/STAGG for CHESF. (Report covers descriptive technical
specification for CHESF's COS)
B.10    Energy Management System (EMS) Supplementary Spec; August 1979,
THEMAG/STAGG for CHESF
B.11    Sumario do Projeto do Sistema de Controle e Supervisao; 11/12/
1979; prepared by CHESF's department of operations (Report is a
summary of the EMS Planning Document (Item B,.6))



- 58 -
B.12    Summario Executivo do Projeto do Sistema Integrado de Tele-
comunicagoes; January 1980, CHESF (Report is a summary des-
cription of the Northeast telecommunication project and
includes copy of the agreement for its implementation)
B.13    Sistema de Telecomunica;oes para suporte do sistema de
Controle e Supervisao da CHESF; December 1979, CHESF
B.14    Configura;ao do Sistema de Telecomunica;oes - CHESF, July 1979
PROMON for CHESF
B.15    Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco - CHESF Sistema
Integrado de Telecomunicaroes Or;amento/Chronograma Fisico-
Financiero; July 1979, PROMON for CHESF
B.16    Configuragao do Sistema de Telecomunicacoes - CHESF; July 1979,
PROMON for CHESF
B.17    Sistema de Supervisao e Controle - SSC Implantarao de Recursos
de Supervisao Controle e Agusigao de Dados Memorial Technico
Descritivo; December 1979, LIGHT (Report is a summary of
feasibility study of LIGHT's COS)
B.18    LIGHT - Servicios de Eletricidade S.A.  Sistema Hierarquico de
Supervisao e Controle Descriptive Technical Report; October
1979 (later superseded by November 1979 revision). Prepared
by PROMON
B.19    CHESF Sistema de Controle e Supervisao da CHESF Pedido de
Financiamento do Banco Mundial; circa September 1979; prepared
by CHESF
- Dossier I: Contains technical information on CHESF's COS
- Dossier II, Volume I: Contains information on organization
aspects of CHESF
- Dossier II, Volume II: Contains financial information on
CHESF
B.20    Real-Time Supervision System Bid No. 2000; 1979; prepared for
ELETROBRAS by CAEEB. (Report covers bidding documents and
specifications for the CSC).
B.21    Projeto SINSC:  Termo de Referencia_para o Painel de Consultores
do Projeto, April 1980 ELETROBRAS.
B.22    Projeto SINSC: Situagao Atual de Implantaqao do Projeto; April
1980, ELETROBRAS.



- 59 -
B.23    Organizagao do Projeto de Implantagao do SINSC; March 1980,
ELETROBRAS
B.24    OrganizaVao para Implantagao do Projeto; August 1980,
ELETROBRAS
B.25    Plano Plurianual de Implantarao; July 1980,
ELETROBRAS
B.26    Programa Anual de Implantapao; July 1980,
ELETROBRAS
C.   WORKING PAPERS PREPARED BY BANK STAFF
C.1     Miscellaneous financial forecasts, economic anaiyses, and cost
comparisons.






0  i t S .   ,    X   V E .FZ U; E L A              =                                                                                      ==                        __       -
7 : X x~GUYANA )-
000 0 fOLO;MBA  0 0 X \05  Ct     t            F >       - ,SURINA;ME GUIANA/')
a 4 0; ; L; S r- tAs _ > gli~~~~~~f   9                                                                     A  -'-- 
' Macapu4<~~LETONR 
WX~~~~~~ ~6/   gS   l___
5   - /  3at  1t  $    ,  iE)4   '       //        \3   2 V        a                J    3          >                               r   -          tiaiiul~~~~~TUCURU
' ''  -f                       t';   ~ ~ ~~ ~~~/-                           g\2g                                                      5LACXr...*  s
i . '  X h  /  J   '._  (<            A        -, Se                  A l                                                            \                            ,      
-:  *<-ii ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPRAIcBc.PraVlo' X'<0;   ;
;;;   ; -  l   > U  /   .                          7           \           D i-- 1                         o( a -;                / -i-                   lo 
PER0U;  0  a  XB  )  L t 1 A \ z s w . -,^; e aS / -I 9 ,) ilvo&,~~~~~~~SOBRA(NH8
X    0 ;; 00  R   00 0  0 00 0 30001   <                fJ        X,                       9                LiNIL Y~~~~~~~~~.C O    GF!i
<S00   L  fft    t:   X, fi; BRS4ZiL  f; 0 f a;  f\,   9)ulffba   G,     / BrosiliMa  TC,   A
X,          X ~NAT40NAL   ELECTRIC   PO>(WER                ..         J/,                              1\,rM:                         5AI15   |wEB
SUPERVIfSO RY  AND   COORDINATION  S4YSTEMX\                     Z,..F                       oni                                 h     _  
M XAhN TRAN95PtSSIONg LIN5 -                .          -'I/TES                   9TMI"                           1S
44 _   _   -KV                                         G,..                                    E    S X l-J    U I < TREfoortn  7ttr
C d .......... SOiJR;VIr PAR;AG   AY  rLHAND  RSirr'.O R 
3                           7500KV   ,L                             >           tt,           o '/C bz                                        to tr            Oe7 
2)       0   0      N ~709eA O}w:                                                                                                   A      00 0z CIE
|  O       J      0 *  ~PRiNCIPAL SuBSTATIONS'0             ARjjNt           v                                
3e-       l         '    C05UndPerAT -ot4 CETERS       =               i                                                                                                        l2 n /
1/ 05  0  Sate crlrscLFs    . 0 0  99  .  }, . .       K       KROMEffRS  D      2D0      ArJ0     600     SDD      1000        t,5a
1 5 .:. . . Sr<]te bo=rle3r . St: ' i.5 VMILES                                 0      2iO           400           6rD0 's 'C
i  0 ._._urrerarJe9r woundrJrtrni ;  a  E .   = i  !  LS -i.  >                                                              I                      _ I E~~~~~~~~~50



