FILE copy
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2860-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTEREATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
CENTRATS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS, S.A. - ELETROBRAS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM COORDINATION PROJECT
December 4, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS I/
Calendar 1979         November 25, 1980
Currency Unit  -        Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1            -       Cr$26.85                  Cr$62.315
Cr$1            -      US$0.037                   US$0.016
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAEEB         -    Companhia Auxiliar de Empresas Eletricas Brasileiras
CEEE          -    Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica
CELESC        -    Centrais Eletricas de Santa Catarina
CELG          -    Centrais Eletricas de Goias S.A.
CELPE         -    Companhia de Eletricidade de Pernambuco
CEMAT         -    Centrais Eletricas Matogrossenses S.A.
CEMIG         -    Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais S.A.
CESP          -    Companhia Energetica de Sao Paolo S.A.
CHESF         -    Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco
COC           -    Comissao de Coordenacao
COELBA        -    Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado da Bahia
COELCE        -    Companhia de Eletricidade do Ceara
COIMP         -    Comite de Implantacao
COPEL         -    Companhia Paranaense de Energia
COS           -    System Operations Center
CSC           -    Supervision and Coordination Center
DACS          -    Data Acquisition and Control System
DNAEE         -    Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica
ELETROBRAS   -    Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A.
ELETRONORTE  -    Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil S.A.
ELETROSUL    -    Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil S.A.
ESCELSA       -    Espirito Santo Centrais Eletricas S.A.
FURNAS        -    Furnas Centrais Eletricas S.A.
GCOI          -    Grupo Coordenador para Operacao Interligada
GGF           -    Global Guarantee Fund
IDB           -    Inter-American Development Bank
LIGHT         -    LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade S.A.
RTSS          -    Real-Time Supervision System
SCADA         -    Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SINSC         -    Sistema Nacional de Supervisao e Coordenacao da
Operacao Interligada
SSC           -    Secretaria de Supervisao e Coordenacao
1/   Except where otherwise noted, the exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal
Report (US$1 = Cr$25.00) corresponds to the cruzeiro selling rate as of
June 30, 1979.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITS AND MEASURES
kW              -     Kilowatt = 103 watt
MW              -     Megawatt (103 kW)
kWh             -     Kilowatt hour = 103 watt hour
GWh             -     Gigawatt hour = 103 kWh)
TWh             -     1,000 Gigawatt hour = 103 kWh
kV              -     Kilovolt (103 volts)
kVA             -     Kilovolt = ampere         3
MVA             -     Megavolt - ampere (10  kVA)
km              -     kilometer (0.6214 mile)
average MW   -        Annual MWh/8760h
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



a.



BRAZIL
ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM COORDINATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A. - ELETROBRAS
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiary:         Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco (CHESF)
Amount:              US$54 million equivalent allocated among the Borrower
and beneficiary as follows: ELETROBRAS, US$32 million
equivalent; CHESF, US$22 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including a grace period of 3 years,
at 9.25% interest per annum
Relending Terms
to Beneficiary:   ELETROBRAS would relend the proceeds of the loan allocated
to CHESF at the same interest rate, maturity and grace
period as the Bank loan.  CHESF would bear the foreign
exchange risk on its portion of the loan.
Project
Description:       The project is part of a national system for the super-
vision and coordination of the operation of Brazil's
interconnected electric power systems (SINSC). SINSC
will include (i) a real-time supervision system (RTSS)
to be located at a national supervision and coordination
center (CSC) in Brasilia (to be owvned and operated by
ELETROBRAS/GCOI); (ii) data acquisition and control
systems (DACS) to be located at the systems operations
centers (COSs) of Brazil's nine major electric power
companies and the Itaipu hydroelectric plant; and
(iii) telecommunications links. The project consists of
the initial components of SINSC which are at an advanced
stage of preparation: the national Center (CSC) in
Brasilia, and the systems operations center (COS) of
CHESF, one of ELETROBRAS' major subsidiaries. The project
also includes a sector-wide training program to be carried
by ELETROBRAS. SINSC is expected to result in overall
improvement in sector management, significant future
reductions in capital investments in generation and
transmission facilities, lower reserve requirements for
such facilities, lower requirements for fossil fuels for
power generation, improvements in reliability of electri-
city supply, and less industrial output foregone because
of power outages.



- ii -
The principal risk of the project is that the techn.ology
for SINSC, which has been developed outside Brazil and
is highly advanced, will not be rapidly and fully absorbed
within the country. The provisions for technical assistance
and training included in the project, including the estab-
lishment of a special panel of experts to monitor and
advise on project implementatio,n, make this risk acceptable.
Estimated Cost:                                          In US$ million     …
ELETROBRAS    CHESF      TOTAL
Part A (Supervisory and Control System)
Supervision & Control (Base Cost)               28.6         31.0       59.6
Physical Contingency                             5.9          4.7       10.6
Price Contingency                                8.9         12.2       21.1
Total Part A                               4:3.4        47.9      91.3
of which Foreign                         2 7. 1      22.0       49.1
Loca'l                         1I6.3        25.9       42.2
Part B (Telecommunications System)
Communications (Base Cost)                       3.5         15.7       19.2
Physical Contingency                             G,.7         2.4        _ol
Price Contingency                               _0.9          5.7        6.6
Total Part B                                5.1         23.8      28.9
of which Foreign                         C.6           3.6       4.2
Local                           4.5         20.3       24.8
Total (Parts A and B,)                          48.5         71.8      120.3
of which Foreign                           27.7         25.6      53.3
Local                            20.8         46.2       67.0
Part C (Sector Training Program)
Sector-wide Training Program
(including Physical. Contingency)             18.0            -      18.0
Price Contingency                                2.0            -        2.0
Total Part C                               20.0            -      20.0
of which Foreign                          5.0            -       5.0
Local.                         15.0            -       15.0
TOTAL PROJECT                                   68.5         71.8      140.3
of which Foreign                              32.7         25.6       58.3
Local                               35.8         46.2       82.0



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                    --       In US$ million…------
ELETROBRAS    CHESF       TOTAL
Proposed IBRD Loan               32.0        22.0        54.0
Other Sources                    36.5        49.8        86.3
TOTAL                            68.5        71.8       140.3
Estimated
Disbursements:                                       US$ millions equivalent--------
Bank FY  1981  1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Annual                    7.1  12.1   11.1   10.5    9.9    3.3
Cumulative                7.1  19.2   30.3   40.8   50.7   54.0
Rate of Return:       13% minimum estimated economic rate of return based on
assumed analogy with other supervision and coordination
systems.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2911b-BR of December 2, 1980



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS, S.A. - ELETROBRAS
FOR AN ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM COORDINATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A. - ELETROBRAS with the guarantee of the
Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$54 million to help
finance an electric power system coordination project. The loan would have a
term of 15 years, including three years of grace with interest at 9.25% per
annum. ELETROBRAS would relend US$22 million equivalent of the proposed
Bank loan to Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco (CHESF), a subsidiary
of ELETROBRAS, on the same terms as the proposed Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on the
work of an economic mission that visited Brazil earlier this year. The mission's
report will be distributed early next year.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its
attention has had to be devoted to grappling with accelerating inflation and a
deteriorating balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the
Government include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on
imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports. Success
on these fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-
payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards
and a better income distribution.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        Over the past 13 years Brazil has enjoyed remarkable economic growth.
GDP and income per capita have risen at average real rates of about 9% and
6% per year, respectively. During the 1967-1973 period, growth was achieved
with no significant deterioration of the external resource balance, despite
considerable trade liberalization, and there also occurred a gradual decline
in the rate of domestic inflation. Although income growth was unevenly dis-
tributed, available data indicate that most Brazilians shared in the absolute
improvement of living standards that was taking place. Among the sources of
development were a rapid growth of public sector investments, the expansion of
Brazil's agricultural frontier, the inflow of foreign capital and technology,
and a more than 25% annual growth of manufactured exports.
1/   This part is reprinted from the corresponding part of the President's
Report for the Ceara Second Rural Development Project (No. P-2898-BR,
dated November 11, 1980).



-2-
5.        However, the situation began to change after 1973.  One by-product
of the rapid growth process was a rising dependence of Brazil's industry and
transport system on petroleum, over 80% of which was imported. As a conse-
quence of successive oil price increases and rising domestic consumption, the
cost of petroleum imports rose from US$711 million in 1973 to US$4.5 billion
in 1978. Although Brazil responded by increasing control over other merchan-
dise imports, particularly from 1975-1977, the current account deficit swelled
from an annual average of $1.3 billion in the 1970-1973 period to $6.0 billion
in the 1974-1978 span. This occasioned a rapid incriease in external borrowing
and Brazil's medium- and long-term external debt (both public and private)
rose from $12 billion in 1973 to over $43 billion at the end of 1978, part of
which went to build up international reserves which expanded by $5.5 billion
over this period. Interest payments grew from $840 imillion to $3.3 billion
during this interval and, in turn, also figured importantly in the country's
current account deficits.
6.        Coping with the suddenly tightened resource constraint in the face
of continued pressures to maintain high economic growth rates has been one of
the basic problems of Brazilian economic management since the 1973-74 oil
crisis. The initial response in 1974 and 1975 was an effort to stimulate
import substitution industries and expand manufactured exports as rapidly as
possible while permitting continued growth in aggregate demand. However, as
a consequence of accelerating inflation in the face of constricted imports and
increased protection of domestic industry, in 1976 actions were taken to slow
the expansion of public sector expenditures and to tighten credit. This effort
intensified in the following year and with imports held at the same nominal
level for the third year in a row, GDP expanded by only 4.7%, the lowest
rate in more than a decade. The subsequent easing of fiscal and monetary
policies helped GDP growth to recover to 6% in 1978, spurred by a strong
industrial recovery and a 36% increase in manufacturied and semi-processed
exports. Throughout the 1976-78 period inflation persisted in the 38-42%
range due, in part, to a rapid build-up in international reserves and a poor
agricultural harvest in 1978.
7.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
unionized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports. Indus-
trial production was up about 7% over the previous year. Agricultural output
was again severely affected by a combination of droughts, floods, and frost
but showed some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. Overall, GDP growth
was 6.4%. High demand, the poor harvest, and increased fuel costs resulted in
a rapid acceleration of inflation which reached 78% by the end of year, the
highest rate since 1964.
8.        Increased petroleum prices, consecutive bad harvests, and a sharp
rise in external borrowing costs also contributed to a progressive deteriora-
tion of Brazil's balance of payments in 1978 and 1979. Despite the continued
rapid growth of manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance fell from
a small surplus in 1977 to a US$1.0 billion deficit in 1978 and a US$2.7
billion deficit in 1979. The cost of fuel imports alone increased from 1978
to 1979 by 53%, or US$2.2 billion.  Increases in the London interbank offered



- 3 -
rate (LIBOR), to which about 60% of Brazil's external debt is tKed, contributed
to raising gross interest payments abroad from US$3.3 billion ill 1978 to
US$5.3 billion in 1979. Consequently, the deficit on current account grew
from US$5.9 billion to US$9.7 billion, or from 3.1% to 4.7% of GDP.
9.        With amortization payments totaling US$6.6 billion, gross external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$16.3 billion. Of this amount,
US$3.2 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another US$1.5 billion
was provided by net direct foreign investment. Gross and net foreign borrow-
ings in 1979, including bond issues, therefore totaled US$11.6 billion and
US$5.0 billion, respectively, compared to US$14.1 billion and US$8.8 billion
in 1978. Few difficulties were encountered in attracting the necessary credits,
and an improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and maturities available to Brazil
was sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought international reserves to US$9.0
billion at the end of 1979, or equivalent to about 5-1/2 months of goods
and nonfactor service imports. Gross medium- and long-term debt rose to
US$49n9 billion, or 24% of GDP.
10.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success and were followed
bv new packages of measures in December 1979 and in January and April 1980. The
most important of the December measures were a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro,
accompanied by the elimination of some export subsidies and the prior deposit
requirement on imports, and the imposition of a temporary export tax on primary
products; increased restrictions on public enterprise investments, imports and
borrowing; selected tax increases; the introduction of a programmed phase-out
of most tax earmarking; a modification of administered credit programs intended
to reduce subsidies; establishment of ceilings on monetary correction and ex-
change rate adjustment during 1980 and the first half of 1981; and the imposition
of direct controls on credit expansion by the private banking system.
11.       Nevertheless, the economic momentum which had built ever the past
two years appears to have continued during the first semester of 1980. Prelim-
inary reports indicate that overall economic growth for the six month period was
about 8%, due primarily to excellent agricultural harvests and continued rapid
industrial expansion. Aggregate demand remained strong, fueled in part by the
still rapid nominal expansion of credit and generous wage adjustments. Inflation
reached nearly 100% for the 12-month period ending in June.
12.       On the external side, preliminary estimates are that exports grew by
39% during the first semester as a consequence of the excellent harvest and
a continued marked expansion of manufactured exports despite the slow growth
of the world economy. Imports expanded at an even faster pace, however, in
response to the continued strong growth of the economy, a build-up of petroleum
stocks and higher petroleum prices, and some private sector inventory accumulation
in anticipation of possible tighter import controls. The trade deficit for the
first seven months of the year totaled US$2.2 billion. External borrowing
during the first half of 1980 totaled about US$5 billion, and reserves were
drawn down by an additional US$3.1 billion. Although Brazil should be able to
obtain the US$7-8 billion net financing projected for the entire year, tighter
loan conditions are being evidenced. Total medium- and long-term external debt
outstanding at the end of 1980 will be about US$58 billion.



-4-
Poverty Programs
13.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts to relieve
poverty, and significant progress has been made in a number of areas. Coverage
of the social security program, for example, has been expanded and extended
to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is now covered
by the social security heaLth care system, and a cash transfer program has
been established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter system, rural
households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible to receive a
monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which is almost twice
the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast. The urban popula-
tion over age 70 is covered by a similar program.  Almost 2 million loans have
been made for housing by the National Housing Bank since 1964.  A sites and
services program was established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor more
directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home
improvement and building materials. High priority has also been given to
the extension and improvement of urban water supply. Consequently, some
6 million households comprising about 30 million people have been connected
to public water supply systems since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban
dwellers who receive such services to 75%. Efforts have also been made to
attack the poverty-related problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
Future Prospects
14.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce the drain on the
economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated,
and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with
PETROBRAS, the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to
develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potenti.al, to initiate nuclear
power production, to substitute alcohol for gasoline, and to expand domestic
coal production.  Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation.
While results thus far are encouraging, dependence on imported energy remains
a formidable problem. With oil expected to constitute US$1.0-11 billion (about
half of Brazil's merchandise imports) in 1980, as compared to US$700 million
(11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off between growth and balance-of-payments
viability continues to be a principal preoccupation of economic decision makers.
15.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures already
noted, a number of important institutional reforms are being carried out
to improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. Among these
are the marked improvement of information flows and budgetary control in the
public sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies
and public enterprises; incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of the
subsidy programs formerly handled outside the budget through the Central Bank;
and reduced earmarking of public revenues. Currently under consideration are
the elimination of the development banking responsibilities of the Central
Bank and the abolition of the Bank of Brazil's money-creating power.
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report", dated October 1979.



- 5 -
16.       The December 1979 devaluation of the cruzeiro and the rewove1 cf
import deposit requirements should help to promote more efficient resource
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import substitttior.
Although public investments may be constrained by reduced resouarce availabil.-
ities over tbe next several years, priority attention will continue to be
given to the aevelopment of domestic energy sources, agriculture and major
import-substitution projects.
17.       Growth is expected to average about 5.5% per year in 1980-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7% in 1973-79J Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a stable current account deficit after 1980 and high, but
declining, debt service ratios. These projections are highly sensitive, how-
ever, to petroleum prices, international interest rates, and the rate of growth
of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt service and a high share
of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy more vulnerable to external
events than it has been for many years, and this situation may be expected to
persist for the next several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast upward trend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's
resource balance is expected to remain negative until 1984. Interest payments
on the growing external debt will increase throughout the 1980-85 period
despite an expected decline in international interest rates. Thus large
service account deficits will contribute to continuing current account deficits
on the order of US$10-12 billion through 1985. As a proportion of GDP, the
current account deficit is projected to peak at 5.0% in 1980 and fall steadily
through 1985. This projection assumes that imports grow at a moderate pace,
reflecting continued import substitution, through 1985, as well as a strength-
ening of the overall domestic savings effort. A trade surplus would then
appear beginnning in 1983.
19.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be
around US$7-8 billion in 1980, and remain in the range of TJS$11-12 billion from
1981 to 1985. Annual gross borrowing would be about $14 billion this year and
rise to about $21 billion over the five-year period, with 75-85% obtained as
financial credits from private lenders. Consequently the gross debt service
ratio 1/ would decline from about 62% in 1980 to about 47% in 1985 (correspond-
ing net figures are 59% and 45% respectively).
20.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
1/   Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1979 the
public sector accounted for only 53% of total debt service payments.



- 6 -
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process has been
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
for efficient import substitution offered by the large domestic market.
Nevertheless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence
of domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt have left
the economy increasingly vulnerable to further external shocks. The Govern-
ment recognizes the need for careful demand management and for selectivity in
its investment policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import
substitution, employment creation, and poverty alleviation.
21.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and international interest rates was demonstrated in 1979 and will
continue to make projections subject to a wide margin of error.  The present
scenario also depends heavily on Brazil's ability to curtail inflation, expand
manufactured exports, despite the slower anticipated growth of the world
economy, and on its continued access to international capital. A major effort
is underway to reduce dependence on foreign petroleum, but significant results
will not be apparent for several years. On the other hand, the Brazilian
economy remains dynamic, highly diversified, and resilient. The task of
economic management will not be easy, but policy makers have demonstrated their
ability to adjust to changing circumstances, and recent policy measures should
greatly strengthen their management capacity. Thus, despite the deterioration
noted in 1979 and the first part of 1980, Brazil remains creditworthy for new
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By October 31, 1980 the Bank had made 99 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$5,283 million (net of cancellations), of which 52 were not yet fully
disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averagedl US$150 million per year,
reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million in
FY78, US$295 million in FY79, and US$318 million in FY80 . They are expected
to increase further during the next few years.  hle total undisbursed amount
as of October 31, 1980 was US$2,578 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans as of October 31, 1980 ancd notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY76--80 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year. In FY76, ten loans were made totalling
US$498 million; in FY77., seven loans totalling US$425 million; in FY78, nine
loans totalling US$705 raillion; in FY79, nine loans totalling US$674 million;
and in FY80, seven loans totalling US$695 million were made. So far in
FY81, one loan has been approved, for US$125 million for a second power
transmission project of ELETROSUL. The documents for a loan of US$56 million
for a Second Rural Development Project in Ceara have recently been distributed
to the Executive Directors. Work is relatively advanced on loans for the fuel
alcohol program, a rural development project in Piaui, a second agricultural
research project, an integrated regional development program in the northwest,
a third urban transport project, a multi-state water supply and sewerage
project, and a multi-state power distribution project.



24.        Of Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at the end of 1979, amounting to US$49.9 billion, the Banh helr' 3.6%,.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt in 1979 was 2.f%M Tn 1980, the
Bank's share in total outstanding debt is expected to fall very slightl
while its share in total debt service should fall to about 1.8%.
25.        As of October 31, 1980 IFC commitments to Brazil totalled USS54 3
million, of which U;S$338.5 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled.
Of the balance of Us$204.5 million, US$152.2 million represent loans and
US$52.3 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of Octobesr 31,
1980 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
26.        In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop
projects that will increase the productivity and incomes of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to
those groups, and to improve their living conditions. Loans for water supply
and sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in greater Sao Paulo,
in the northeast and in the south, loans for urban transport in several major
cities, for sites and services and low-cost housing, for medium-sized cities
development, and for pollution control in Greater Sao Paulo, are assisting to
improve the living conditions of the urban population, particularly of the
urban poor.  Several projects to reach low-income groups in urban areas are in
preparation, including a third urban transport project, an integrated urban
development project and a multi-state water supply and sewerage project.
Previous loans for nutrition research and development, vocational training,
agricultural research, agricultural extension, polder construction in the
lower Sao Francisco river basin, rural education in the northeast, and for
integrated rural development in the states of Rio Grande do Norte,  Minas
Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba, Bahia, Sergipe and Pernambuco were designed to assist
low-income groups in rural areas. Additional projects designed to assist
low-income groups in rural areas are in preparation, including a second
agricultural research project and several integrated rural development projects
in the northeast and northwest.
27.        Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional developnent and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and
help maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically
through rational selection of investment projects. This institution-building
objective has been particularly important in Bank assistance in the electric
power sector, where there has been an emphasis on supporting least cost
investment decisions, on strengthening the managements and planning and
operational capabilities of the power companies, rationalizing the tariff
structure, and improving sector planning methods and performance. Loans for
rural development, railways, industrial finance, highways, agricttltural
research and extension, water supply and sewerage, and urban rl.elrpmPrt ai15rn
hav,e important institution-building objectives.  Under the prcr-n  proWct,



we vT1 obe assisting ELE1'ROBRAS in carrying out a sector-wide training
program, in addition to providing technical assistance for project preparation
and implemaentation.  The proposed SINSC program is expected to result in
signlr Ca'.t overall imlprovement in sector managemen:t and operation.
28.       Another iernding objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development. a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum  prices, by supporting projects designedl to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports.  As a result of the deterioration in Brazi]'s terms of trade and
balance oF payments since the 1974 energy crisis, this objective has been in
trie forefront of the gove.rnment's economic policy. Lending for the electric
power sector supports this objective, since it is based primarily on hydro-
electric energy, and its developmient lessens the need for petroleum imports.
Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemical projects is assisting Brazil to
substitute imports with large-scale efficient domestic production and aid its
balance-of-payments position. Much of the Bank-assisted investment in the
transport sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate
the smooth and economical flow of exports. Support of the steel expansion
program is helping Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional import
commodity which can be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the country's
ample supply of high-grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets. A
similar objective is being achieved through the VALESUL aluminum project which
will use Brazil's abundant: hydroelectric resources for power and ample bauxite
reserves.
29.       A final obiective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is
to provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence
in Brazil and encourages others to continue their own programs there. In
some sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation
is helping Brazil obtain additional resources in gre<ater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions than mav have otherwise been provided. Eleven co-financing operations
for more than US$425 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private
financial institutions and several others are in preparation, including
about US$110 million in private co-financing for the CEEE power distribution
project (Loan No. 1824-BR, approved in March 1980), about US$50 million in
private co-financing for the Second Minas Gerais Rural Development Project
(Loan No. 1877-BR, approved in June 1980) and about UJS$65 million in private
co-financing for the ELETRODSUL Second Power Transmission Project (Loan
No. 1895-BR, approved in July 1980).



- 9 -
PART III - THE SECTOR I/
Energy Resources and IUtilization
30.       The esti-mated total gross consumption of energy in Brazil in 1979
was 116.5 million T.o.e. (0.97 T.o.e. per capita) 2/ and it is expected to grow
at a rate of about 6% per annum in the next 5 years, reaching about 1.19
T.o.e. per capita in 1985.  Oil products account for about 42% of the national
energy consumption, mineral coal, wood products and wastes 32% and hydro-
electricity 26%. In 1q79 electricity generation amounted to about 122,000 GWh;
its annual rate of growth since 1974 has been about 12% with per capita con-
sumption in the same period growing from 550 to 1,000 kWh.
31.       Rrazil's proven oil reserves are limited.  Present domestic produc-
tion of crude covers only 15% of the country's requirements. To increase
domestic production government accelerated exploration since 1977 by granting
risk contracts to private concerns, putting an end to government monopoly in
this field. There have been no major new discoveries so far as a result of
these efforts.
32.       Brazil has vast water resources with a potential for hydroelectric
development estimated at about 230,000 MW, of which only about 24,100 M{W have
been utilized.  An additional 38,600 TIW are scheduled to be in operation by
1990. Many of the more promising wiatersheds are relatively remote from the
demand centers and the economic justification for their development remains
to be demonstrated. By the end of lQ79 the power sector had about 28,400 MW
of installed generating capacity of which about 85% was in hydroelectric sta-
tions and the remainder in thernal plants. The high voltage transmission
systen contains about 34,000 circuit-km at voltages ranging from 230 to 5no kV.
33.       Coal presently accounts for only about 4% of Brazil's energy produc-
tion, but the government is counting on coal to supply an increasing share of
Brazil's energy requirements in the future. Most of Brazil's coal is of low
quality and some of it is very costly to mine.  The government is, however,
encouraging the construction of coal-fired thermal plants and the substitution
of coal for other fuels in industrial boilers. It is projected by the govern-
ment that coal's share of the national energy supply will increase to about 6%
by 1987.
1/   This part has been substantially reprinted from the corresponding part
of the President's Report for the CEEE Power Distribution Project
(No. P-2739-BR, dated March 10, 1980) and is substantially identical
to the corresponding part of the President's Report for the ELETROSUL
Second Power Transmission Project (No. P-2859-BR, dated June 27, 1980).
2/   T.o.e.:  tons of oil equivalent, approximately 10  kcal.  Data source:
Tinistry of lines and Tnergv, Balanco Fnergetico NacionaL, 1978.



- 10 -
34.       About three thousand M; of nuclear generating capacit-y has Been
scheduled for operation by 1985 in the southeastern region, the largest de-iaa
center in the country.  The first unit of 625 MW, supplied by Westinghouse
(USA), is expected to be in operation in 1981. The Brazil-Federal Republic of
Germany agreement of JuneL 27, 1975 provides for the supply of an additional
2,400 MW in nuclear plants and a Brazilian option for six additional 1,200 MhW
units. Because of substantial cost increases, the government is, however,
reviewing its nuclear powrer plans.
35.       Other fuels include firewood, charcoal and sugarcarie bagasse.
Firewood is used only in some small industries and for cooking in rural and
some urban low income households. Charcoal is used for cooking, in blast
furnaces and steel mills. Bagasse is burned to produce steam in sugar milling.
These fuels represent about a quarter of Brazil's energy utilization and would
probably not increase. Among other energy sources of lesser current signif-
icance in Brazil is natural gas, with small deposits in northeastern fields
for local supply. There are few sites for tidal energy development, and
geothermal fields have not yet been discovered. Brazil has been active
in exploring alternative energy sources; the largest endeavor has been in the
use of alcohol as fuel in internal combustion engines. In a first phase of
the government's alcohol production program, started in 1974, gasoline is
being blended with up to 20% alcohol in many states. In a second phase, 100%
alcohol-run cars are being introduced on a commercial scale beginning in 1980.
Annual alcohol production is planned to increase from about 3.3 billion liters
in 1979 to about 11 billion liters by 1985. A Bank loan for the fuel alcohol
program is under preparation.
The Role of the Power Sector in the Economy
36.        The continued growth of reliable electric service is essential for
the development of the country's industries, which iLn 1977 used 57% of all
electric energy consumed while accounting for about 40% of Brazil's GDP, con-
tributing about 45% of expDort earnings and providing for about 33% of all
non-agricultural employment. The rate of growth of electricity consumption
was 1.20 times that of GD? for the period 1962-75 while from 1970-75, it was
1.28 times that of GDP. From 1974 through 1979, electricity consumption grew
at about 12% p.a. while GDP grew at about 7% p.a., resulting in a rate of
growth of electricity consumption with respect to GDP of about 1.7. This
increasing trend in the rate of growth of electricity utilization with respect
to Brazil's GDP reflects an apparent substitution of electricity for other
energy sources.
Sector Organization
37.        Though complex and one of the largest in the world, the sector is
well organized and the policies well formulated and applied. Decree 60,824
of June 7, 1967 established the current sector organization, under which the
Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica (DNAEE) performs regulatory
functions, grants licenses for generating plants, assigns concessions, sets
tariffs and approves expansion plans; and Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A.--
ELETROBRAS, a holding company for those utilities owned by the federal



- 11 -
Government, administers public funds for use by its subsidiaries and state-
owned utilities, and coordinates external borrowings, expansion plans for
major generating and transmission facilities, and operation of interconnected
systems in the country's network.
38.       The five geographical regions are served by ELETROBRAS' subsidiaries
(bulk suppliers), in conjunction with state-owned utilities (principally in
distribution) as follows: Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil (ELETRONORTE)
for the North and part of the Central-West; Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao
Francisco (CHESF) for the Northeast; Furnas-Centrais Eletricas (FURNAS) in the
Southeast and part of the Central-West; and Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil
(ELETROSUL) for the South. A joint Brazil-Paraguay authority (Itaipu Binacional)
has responsibility for the Itaipu hydroelectric project, under construction on
the Parana River, where it defines the border between the two countries.
39.       Government guidelines contained in the 1967 decree promoted concen-
tration of public electricity services in the individual states into single
state-owned utilities. These utilities are responsible for transmission and
distribution within the respective states and in some cases also operate
generation facilities. The main exception to the pattern of vesting respon-
sibility for distribution in single state-controlled utilities is the present
arrangement under which LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade S.A. serves the cities
of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. 1/ ELETROBRAS acquired 83% of the shares of
LIGHT from Brascan, Ltd. (Canada) in January 1979. LIGHT is Brazil's largest
power utility, accounting for nearly 40% of Brazil's total power market.
Tariffs
40.       Sector legislation provides for utilities to obtain through tariffs
sufficient funds to cover their operating expenses, depreciation, reversion
quota 2/ and a reasonable return on investment. Since 1966, annual revaluation
of assets used as a basis to calculate tariffs, is mandatory. Currently,
assets are adjusted monthly for monetary correction in accordance with changes
in the ORTN index (the monetary correction index applied to Government bonds).
Previously this index was computed on the basis of past inflation, with
certain adjustments, and while somewhat less than actual inflation rates,
movements in the ORTN index roughly corresponded to general price movements.
Since 1977, however, the cumulative ORTN adjustment has only been 55% of
inflation and hence there has been an erosion of the asset base on which
the sector's remuneration is calculated. The Government has recently announced
1/   However, in keeping with its stated policy, the Government has recently
decided to transfer LIGHT's operations in Sao Paulo to CESP, the state-
owned electricity company of the state of Sao Paulo (see para. 63).
2/   A federal tax assessed at a rate of up to 5% on assets in operation;
of this, 60% is lent by the Government to ELETROBRAS which uses the
funds to finance investments in the sector and to provide compensation
of private utilities for acquisition of their assets and the balance
is the rain source of funds for the Global Guarantee Fund--n inriff
equalization facility to supplement the earnings of eligible utilities,
al]nvffn' t`erm to obtain a return of up to 10% on rerunerable assets.



- 12 -
t'hat its policy to limit ORTN correction to arbitrary ceilings 1/ would
be disconti nued, and that beginning in 1981 ORTN wouild be adjusted so as to
follow closely the movement of the national consumer price index.  This
should result in more rea:Listic asset revaluation :in the future.  The
Bank is carry'Lng on a close dialogue with the GovernTment on this issue,
and we expcct to reach agreement with the Government on a satisfactory
program for recovering the past revaluation shortfalls, as a part of
the on-going preparation of the next power loan foIr Brazil.
41.        In addition to the tariff, residential, commercial and small indus-
trial consumers pay the sole tax (imposto unico) which, since 1972, has been
assessed at the rate of about 25% and 30% of their respective tariffs (residen-
tial consumers using less than 30 kWh/month and industrial consumers using
more than 2,000 klh/month are exempted.  The sole tax provides about 12% of
sector revenues, 40% of which goes to federal agencies, 50% to the states, and
10% to municipalities.  Another sector revenue source (about 10%) is the
compulsory loan, an investment sceme under which industrial consumers using
more than 2,000 kTh/month acquire ELETROBRAS bonds (20-year maturity yielding
6% and revalued periodically in accordance with the ORTN index.)  The self-
financing ratio of the sector as a whole decreased from 43% in 1976 to 17% in
1979. This was due mainly to insufficient tariff increases.
42.       The Bank and the federal government have maintained an active dia-
logue on tariff levels. After a 37% percent increase in early 1979, the
Government granted a second increase (about 12%) in August, and a third one
(55%) in November.  While these were major positive steps (interim increases
had not been granted in the past several years), they were still not quite
sufficient to provide for 179 a remuneration of 10% to the sector as a whole.
In connection with the loan for CEEE (Loan No. 1824-BR, approved in March,
1980), the government indicated that it intended to adjust electricity tariffs
again by mid-1980, by an additional 30%, so as to approximate for 1980 the 10%
remuneration for the sector as a whole, provided in the Brazilian tariff
legislation (which is reflected in various previous loan agreements with the
TWorld Bank). The Government has further indicated that it does not intend
1/   In early 1980, the Government announced, as a pIart of a strategy to
curtail the high rate of inflation (which for 1'379 reached 77%), that
ORTMT correction for 1980 would not exceed 45 % (subsequently increased
to 50%), irrespective of actual inflation. In the same spirit, the
Government announced that devaluation of the cruzeiro would not exceed
40% (subsequently increased to 45%) in 1980, lik'ewise irrespective of
the difference between domestic and international inflation.



- 13 -
to defer any part of the 10% remuneration authorized for 1980 to future years,
but that if due to unexpected circumstances any of the Bank's power sector
borrowers did not reach a 10% remuneration in 1980, the shortfall would be
fully recovered in the next three years. Similarly, the Government has
indicated that it intends to allow the Bank's power sector borrowers which
experienced short-falls in remuneration prior to 1980 to make up such short-
falls, on a revalued basis, in 1981 through 1983. In 1980, tariff increases
of 16% effective in Ilay and 20% in August were given (the combined effect of
which on nominal revenues was somewhat more favorable to the sector than the
30% increase which had been previously indicated for mid-1980). A further
increase of around 20% is now planned for the end of November 1980. Despite
these increases, the remuneration of the sector is only expected to reach
around 7% in 1980, principally because of the unexpectedly high rate of
inflation. The adequacy of sector finances is being reviewed with the Govern-
ment in connection with the preparation of the next power loan for Brazil.
CHESF, as partial beneficiary under the proposed loan, would (like other Bank
borrowers or beneficiaries in the power sector) maintain its eligibility under
norms prescribed by DNAEE in the event it requires transfers from the GGF,
and DNAEE would allow CHESF a return on remunerable assets of at least 10%.
Beginning in 1981, CFESF would be allowed a full 10% remuneration in each
year, no part of which would be postponed to future years. (Section 4.03 of
the draft Project Agreement; Section 6.01(f) of the draft Loan Agreement;
Section 3.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement and accompanying draft
supplemental letters No. 1 on Revenues of CHESF and No. 2 on Cost of Service.)
Access to Service
43.       About 80% of Brazil's urban population is receiving electricity
service.  However, the number of people receiving this service in the rural
areas (where about 40% of the population lives) is very low. Government is
promoting expansion of subtransmission and distribution facilities to provide
electricity service to a higher proportion of the population, particularly
in rural areas.
44.       Rural electrification was started in 1970 when the Instituto Nacional
de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria (INCRA), an autonomous agency attached to the
Ministry of Agriculture, was made responsible for the planning, promotion and
control of rural electrification through consumer cooperatives. Progress,
however, was slow (4 to 5 thousand customers/year) and in 1974, ELETROBRAS
created a rural electrification department to complement the Ministry of
Agriculture's activities. ELETROBRAS' finances distribution networks in rural
areas close to existing lines. It does not finanice household wiring or connec-
tion fees. ELETPOBRAS finances 50 to 80% of the cost of individual rural
electrification projects at a subsidized interest rate of 12% (not subject to
monetary correction) with 15 years maturity including a grace period of 5
years. The remaining cost is borne by the utilities or by consumers. About
43,000 rural customers (about 200,000 people) wqere connected in 1978 through
FLYTROBRAS-assisted programs at a total cost of about US$100 million.
Sector Development
45.       The high level of investment required in the sector (about 97 of
gross domestic capital formation) and the Government's present policy of



- 14 -
limiting public sector investments as part of its efforts to control inflaCion
may affect future sector investment programs.  In connection with the Bank s
1978 loan for a power distribution project in the south and southeast (Loan
1538-BR), ELETROBRAS agreed to complete by December 31, 1979 a master plan for
sector facility expansions to the year 2000. This plan was to be based upon
an integrated perspective of the country's long term power requirements and
was to give due consideration to economy and efficiency. ELETROBRAS has
prepared a plan specifying the plant to be installed up to 1995 and analyzirng
the possibility of developing part of the Amazon basin and installing nuclear
plants. Bank staff have reviewed the plan and concluded that it does not fully
achieve all of the objectives which had been envisaged by the Bank. The Bank
is continuing a dialogue with ELETROBRAS on this matter.  In connection with
the proposed loan, ELETROBRAS has agreed to complemnent this plan with analyses
of alternative development sequences by the end of 1981 and continue improving
the methodology it uses in its planning efforts. ELETROBRAS has also agreed
to continue exchanging views with the Bank on this subject (Section 5.05 of
the draft Loan Agreement and accompanying draft supplemental letter No. 3).
Bank Participation in the Sector
46.       The Bank has made loans in the Brazilian power sector amounting to
about US$1.6 billion since 1949. They have been for hydroelectric plants,
associated transmission facilities and distribution systems in the southeastern,
southern, and northeastern regions. Bank participation has contributed to sector
organization and planning and facilitated foreign commercial financing of the
sector. The Bank has also supported government eff-orts to implement a tariff
policy which has enabled the sector to contribute a considerable proportion of
the funds required in sector investments; Project performance audit reports
on hydro-electric plant 1/ and distribution system 2/ projects have been
distributed to the Executive Directors. These reports conclude that, despite
construction delays and cost overruns, the projects were basically successful.
The latest report points to the recent inadequacy of tariffs (para. 41).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
47.       The principal characteristics of the Brazilian interconnected power
system 3/ are such that on-line coordination of operation among the various
utilities which own and operate the system is essential. The area covered by
1/   Loan 404-BR (Sec.M 77-532 of June 28, 1977); Loans 442-BE and 566-BR
(Sec.d 78-34 of January 13, 1978); and Loan 728-BR (Sec. M79-756 of
October 23, 1979).
2/   Loans 475/476/477 and 478-BR (Sec.M 75-646 of September 4, 1975).
3/   See IBRD Map No. 14963 attached at the end of this report.



- 15 -
the system is very large; the principal hydroelectric energy sources are
located far from the major load centers; and several utilities own and operate
power plants in cascade on the same river. Because of the mixed ownership
of power plants, ownership and operation of the high voltage transmission
lines, particularly those serving the principal load centers of the south and
southeast, is also mixed. Each of the principal transmission systems consti-
tutes, by itself, a sufficiently complex network to justify network analysis
and security monitoring capability. However, none of the utilities operating
the principal transmission lines can adequately monitor and analyze its own
system without receiving data on the operation of the systems operated by the
other utilities.  In recognition of the benefits that could be derived from
coordinating their operations, the major power companies in the southeast
formed, in 1968, the Comite Coordenador de Operacao Interligada (CCOI)--a
coordinating committee to establish the policies for interconnected operations.
48.       While the CCOI was initially successful in coordinating intercon-
nected operations, it lacked the legal and organizational framework to cope
with the needs of an increasingly complex and rapidly growing interconnected
power system. To provide this framework, the government, through Law 5899
of July 1973 and Decree 73.102 of November 1973, established the Grupos
Coordenadores para Operacao Interligada (GCOI) to coordinate the operations
in the interconnected power system of the south and southeast regions. Two
such groups were established: GCOI-SE covering the southeastern region and
GCOI-S covering the south. Although the northeast power system probably will
not be interconnected with the south/southeast network until in the late
1980's, the Government in 1977 constituted CHESF (the bulk power supplier for
the northeast) as a member of GCOI-SE. CHESF was made a member of GCOI-SE
because the ownership, in cascade, of the major hydro reservoirs on the Sao
Francisco river (Tres NIarias by CEMIG and Sobradinho by CHESF) and the coor-
dination required for the operation of these major reservoirs, functionally
ties the northeast and southeast power systems.
49.       The GCOI's have been effective in developing operations plans, estab-
lishing operating criteria and reviewing systems performance. However, the
present method of operations, with considerable direct operator intervention,
is inadequate, and it will become even more so as the system continues to grow
in complexity. The continued mixed ownership of hydro power plants and trans-
mission lines, the construction of large hydroelectric and nuclear power
plants, the increasing interconnection of the national grid, the introduction
of extra high voltage transmission lines and the possible future interchange
of energy with neighboring countries will all demand a level of power system
monitoring, supervision, coordination and information processing capability
which is far beyond the capacity of the existing GCOI. The proposed national.
electric power supervision and coordination system (SINSC) 1/ of which the
project is a part would provide GCOI with this capability.
1/   Sistema Naciona] de Supervisno e Coordenacao da Operacao Tflisal .



- 16 -
50.        The project was appraised in September 1979.  Negotiations took
pl]ace in Washington from April 28 to May 8, 1980, and were concluded on
June 13, 1980.  The Brazilian delegation was headed by Mr. Carlos Amarante,
Director for Planning and Engineering of ELETROBRAS and included Mr. Carlos
Saboia Monte, head of ELETROBRAS' Funding Department and representatives of
the federal Secretariat of Planning and the Ministry of Finance.  Presentation
of the proposal to the Executive Directors has been delayed by about five
months because of a last--minute decision by the Government to review the
procurement arrangements which had been agreed for the project -- a review
which has finally resulted in a confirmation of those arrangements.  A supple-
mental project data sheet, including a timetable of key events and a sum-Mary
of special conditions is presented in Annex III.  A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report B- Brazil - Electric Power System Supervision and Coordination
Project " No. 2911b-BR, dated December 2, 1980, is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors.
The Borrower
51.        The Borrower would be Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A.--ELETROBRAS,
an autonomous Government institution created in April 1961.  Of ELETROBRAS'
subscribed capital at December 31, 1978 amounting to Cr$ 35.8 billion (US$1.7
billion equivalent), about 99.7% was owned by the f ederal Government and the
remaining 0.3% was owned by state and municipal governments and by private
shareholders.  ELETROBRAS operates under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Mines and Energy. Its main functions are described at para. 37.
52.        ELETROBRAS is administered by an Administrative Council which sets
policy and an Executive Board of Directors which maLnages its operations.
The Executive Board of D:irectors consists of the President of ELETROBRAS as
chairman and five directors, each of who serves as the executive head of a
functional department in the company.  In addition, there is a five-member
Fiscal Council responsibLe for reviewing its financial affairs. ELETROBRAS
has built up a competent organization, and its organizational structure is
well suited to its needs,
Financial History and Prospects
53.        As the holding company for the power sector, ELETROBRAS plays a
pivotal financial role in the development of the sector.  It administers
funds to the power sector utilities in the form of- loans and equity invest-
ments. ELETROBRAS is heavily dependent on sector-based resources for its
finances.  This dependence coupled with its pivota:L role tend to make trends
in ELETROBRAS' financial condition mirror trends :in the financial state of
the sector.  Over the. 1969-1975 period when sector tariffs were generally
satisfactory, ELETROBRAS' financial condition rema-Lned very solid. In the
past four years, the power utilities have experienced a decline in their
earnings as a result of inadeauate tariffs and this decline has been reflected
in an erosion of ELETROBRAS finances. During 1980 -1985, the execution period
of the project, ELETROBRAS requirements for funds (in constant June 1979
prices) would amount to about US$24,800 million.  These requirements would
be financed about 95% from sector-based resources, 4% from borrowing and a
negligible proportion from other sources.



- 17 -
54.       The forecasts of ELETROBRAS' key financial indicators during the
project period indicate that ELETROBRAS' overall financial soundness will be
maintained. ELETROBRAS' financial soundness, however, may be achieved at the
expense of the financial viability of the utilities which are dependent on it
for financing. There are indications that the terms of ELETROBRAS loans
(currently 12% interest with monetary correction, and 10-year repayment) may be
too stringent for the utilities which rely on ELETROBRAS for most of their
financing, at least if present tariff levels are not further increased in
real terms (see para. 42). Some of these utilities such as ELETROSUL and
CHESF have unusually high debt/equity ratios, low debt service coverage and
unsatisfactory self-financing capacity. In addition, ELETROBRAS financial
participation in the utilities has been about 80% in the form of loans and
about 20% in the form of equity, and the forecasts indicate that ELETROBRAS
will maintain this proportion during project construction. This high propor-
tion of loan to equity financing may be jeopardizing the capital structures of
the utilities. The issue of ELETROBRAS financing policies is being addressed
in a power sector review currently in progress. Should the sector review
indicate that changes in ELETROBRAS financing policies are in order, these
would be discussed with ELETROBRAS in the context of possible future Bank
involvement in the power sector.
The Beneficiary -- Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco (CHESF)
55.       ELETROBRAS would on-lend US$22 million of the proposed loan to
the Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco (CHESF). CHESF was estab-
lished in 1948 with responsibility for the generation and transmission of
electric power in the northeastern region of Brazil. Of CHESF's subscribed
capital at December 31, 1978 amounting to Cr$ 4.7 billion (US$225 million
equivalent), about 97% was held by ELETROBRAS, 2% by the Superintendencia do
Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (SUDENE)--the northeast regional development
agency--and the remaining 1% by state and municipal government agencies.
CHESF is administered by a three-member Administrative Council and a seven-
member Board of Directors. An independent three-member Fiscal Council advises
on the corporation's finances. At December 31, 1978, the company had about
11,300 employees.  While the number of employees is relatively large, it is
reasonable considering that its service area is large. The company is well
structured.
Bank Involvement in CHTESF
56.       The Bank has made two previous loans to CHESF.  The first, a
US$15 million loan (No. 25-BR) in 1950, was to finance the first two 60 MW
hydroelectric generating plants at Paulo Afonso on the Sao Francisco river.
This project was successfully completed on schedule with minimal cost overruns.
The second loan (No. 1008-PR) of UJS$81 million was made in 1974 to finance
transmission lines associated with tli- Paulo Afonso IV hydroelectric project.
Because of design changes, execution of this project was delayed by about a
year.  The project is now proceeding satisfactorily and despite the d--v H
exectition, it rer;-ins economically viable.



- 18 
CHES7's Power Market
570       CHESF is the sole utility generating electricity for public consump-
tion in the northeast. CHESF supplies energy in bulk to the nine state dis-
tribution companies in its concession area. In addition, it supplies energy
at retail to several large industrial consumers.  CHESF's oower market has
grown very rapidly as a result of the Government's effort to irdustrialize
the northeast. Its energy sales and peak demand grew at an annual rate of
15.7% between 1974 and 1.978 compared to an annual growth rate of 12.4%' nation-
ally.  CHESF's energy sales in 1978 were about 12,000 GWh.  CHESF's installed
generating capacity at the end of 1979 was 3,000 MW and its peak demand was
about 2,700 M4W. The 10%' generating reserve margin in 1979 was low; however,
during 1980 CHESF expects to increase its generation reserve margin to a
satisfactory 30% with the completion of an additional 1,345 MW of hydro
capacity.
Financial History and Prospects
58.       During the 1976-78 period, CHESF's financial rate of return ranged
from 12% to 17%. Because of a heavy debt service burden, CHESF did not con-
tribute anything towards its investment program duuring the period. ELETROBRAS
is CHESF's major creditor accounting for about 802 of its debt outstanding as
of December 31, 1978. As referred to in paragraph 53, the appropriateness of
the terms of ELETROBRAS loans for Brazilian utilities forms part of the
on-going power sector review. CHESF's debt-service will continue to be
high during the project period and hence it will continue to be unable to
contribute to the financing of its investment program from internal sources.
To provide the Bank with the opportunity to review the terms of its future
borrowing, CHESF would not incur any long-term debt without the Bank's con-
currence if its debt service coverage ratio falls below 1.5 (Section 4.04 of
the draft Project Agreement).
Interconnected Power System Operations
59.       To reduce Brazil's dependence on imported petroleum, the Government's
development policy stresses the development of domestic energy resources:
hydroelectricity, uranitum/thorium, coal, and bio-mass. Power sector expansion
programs, therefore, emphasize the development of Brazil's considerable
hydroelectric potential   The Itaipu hydro project, the largest in the worid,
would add about 12,600 MW to Brazil's installed capacity when it is completed
in 1987.  The Tucurui project, under construction on the Tocantins River in
the north, would add another 3,960 MW of capacity by 1987. It is, however,
becoming increasingly difficult to obtain the massive capital resources
required for their development.  In recognition of this, the federal authorities
are taking further steps to improve the coordination of the activities of the
various utilities in Brazil in order to achieve the most economic inistallation
and operation of their f-acilities.
60.       GCOI currently directs interconnected operations by means of annual
and monthly operation plans and dispatch schedules for the participating
utilities.  Because there is no computerized supervision and control syster
at the national level, the Brazilian interconnected electric power systerm



- 19 -
is operated mainly by telephone directed operator intervention. The power
plants are operated principally in accordance with predetermined generator
loading schedules. Remote monitoring of the power plants, substations and
transmission lines, at most company, regional and national levels, is non-
existent. This situation is unusual for a large power system, and in particular
for an interconnected system as complex as Brazil's. The existing mode of
operation does not provide enough flexibility for adapting operating plans and
schedules to daily or hourly changes in hydrological and other system conditions.
61.       The proposed project would be part of a new national system for
supervision and coordination of interconnected operations (SINSC). SINSC
would bring about the operation of generation and transmission facilities
closer to their technical limits while maximizing system reliability and
providing needed flexibility. The SINSC program consists of a computerized
system for remote monitoring and control of the operation of the inter-
connected power system at the national level and regional levels. The
principal components of the complete SINSC program are (i) a Real-Time Super-
vision System (RTSS) to be located at a national Supervision and Coordination
Center (CSC 1/) in Brasilia; (ii) Data Acquisition and Control Systems (DACS)
located at the System Operations Centers (COS's 2/) of eight major electric
power companies and Itaipu, and (iii) telecommunication systems. The RTSS will
consist of computer hardware, auxiliary equipment consisting of control
console panels and video displays, computer programs, and the interface to the
communication systems.  The DACS will consist of computer-based master stations,
remote terminal units, computer programs, peripheral equipment and supporting
communication networks necessary for the COS's to monitor and control their
areas of the Brazilian interconnected power system. The CSC computer will be
connected to each of the computers at the COS's through the communication
systems.
62.       The facilities at the CSC and COS's will form a hierarchical control
system for the operation of the Brazilian interconnected power system. The
functions to be performed at the CSC, which will be the top level of the
system, include production scheduling and coordination, supervision of the
main interconnected network, interchange accounting and operations analysis
and reporting. At the next level will be the COS's where the DACS will perform
digital automatic generation control (ACC), supervisory control and data
acquisition (SCADA) and energy management (EM). The computer at the COS's
will process, transmit and receive data from the CSC computer. At the bottom
level will be the power plants and substations which will be monitored and
controlled from the COS's. To ensure the hierarchical integrity of the system,
there will be no direct communication between the CSC computer and the power
plants and substations.
1/   CSC:  Centro de Supervisao e Coordenacao - National Center for Supervision
and Coordination.
2/   COS:  Centro de Operacao de Sistema - System Operation Center.



20 -
Oret' i_Seiec`-.    and Content
6j.        iche .o-mplete SINSC program will comprise the CSC facilities and the
COS's of 8 major utilities--CHESF, FTRNAS, CEMIG, CESP, CEEE, COPEL, ELETRONORTE,
ELETROS7'L--and 'ta4Du Binacional  The project proposed for Bank financing has
been define. tro co prise the initial components of S[NSC -- the CSC, to be
imLplemented by ELETROBRAS, and the COS of CHESF.  The full economic bene-
fits of the SINSC program, however, would only be realized after the entire
SINSC program becomes  operational and therefore appropriate assurances
Lor the timely  comp etion of the remaining SINSC components are necessary.
ELL,:V-ROBRAS has -fu.naished to the Bank an acceptable i:imetable for integrating
the COSs of C"OPEL ard CM4IG into SINSC (both are already under construction)0
Additionally, EIETROBuRAS would furnish to the Bank, by June 30, 1981, the
reasibility studies for the implementation of the COS's of CEEE, CESP, FURNAS
and Itaipu Binacional. The feasibility studies for the COS's of CESP and
UR'RNAS would include provisions, satisfactory to the Bank, for incorporating
the coordination of the operations of LIGHT's electrical systems in Sao Paulo
and in Rio de Janefiro, respectively, in view of LIGET's impending reorganization
"see para. 63) (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agree-ment).  ELETROBRAS would
a-lso ensure that -he entire SINSC program is completed in accordance with
appropriate engineering, financial and public utility practices (Section
3056({a) of the draft ILoan Agreement).
Z.;        As n3oed in para, 39 above, in keeping with the Government's stated
policy of concentrating distribution in single state-owned utilities, the
Government recently decided to reorganize LIGHT by splitting the Rio and
Sao Paulo systems,, Such reorganization of LIGHT will affect the originally
conceived configuration and. operation of SINSC, under which LIGHT was to have
I.ts o'wn COS (to be located in Sao Paulo, but to control both the Rio de
,Jneiro and Sao Paulo systems); instead, LIGHT - Sao Paulo will now be brought
under the control of the COS of CESP, and LIGHT - Rio de Janeiro under the
C<Y of FURNAS.  Since future sector reorganizations could have implications
for the SINSC program, the Federal Government and ELETROBRAS would afford the
3ank a reasonable opportunity to comment prior to making any changes in sector
organization which would affect the configuration of SINSC, and would not
implement any such changes which would substantially and adversely affect the
operation of S1INSC (Section 3.06(b) of the draft Loan Agreement; Section
3.02(c) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
.n5.      TThe proposed project consists of three parts:  (a) the supervisory
and control subsystem, (b) the complementary telecommunication subsystem
necessary to operate SINSC, and (c) a comprehensive sector training program.
TChe principal project components are as follows:
A.   SuoerVision and Control
(i)  For ELETROBRAS:  installation of a real time supervision
system (RTSS) at the CSC comprising:  (i) computer hardware;
(ii) support and application software; (iii) auxiliary
equipment consisting principally of operator consoles, panels,
video displays etc.; (iv) communication interface; (v) training
related to the implementation and operation of the SINSC; and
kVi)  civ-il wDrks, power supplies and related infrastructure for
the national supervision and coordinat,ion center.



- 21 -
(ii) For CHESF: installation of data acquisition and control
systems (DACS) at its COS comprising (i) a computer-based
master station; (ii) remote terminal units; (iii) software;
(iv) auxiliary equipment; (v) communication interface;
(vi) training related to SINSC; and (vii) civil works,
power supplies and related infrastructure.
B.   Telecommunications
(i) For ELETROBRAS: the provision of communication links between
the CSC and the COS's of the power companies participating
in SINSC;
(ii) For CHESF: the provision of communication links between its
COS and the dispatch centers, power plants and substations
under its area of control.
C.   Sector Training Program and Studies
A comprehensive training program for sector personnel to be
carried out by ELETROBRAS in Brazil (about 3,060 staff-months)
and abroad (about 525 staff-months). The sector training program
will cover the following areas: system planning and operations,
system control, electric-power transmission and distribution,
standardization and quality control, financial administration,
economics of public utility operation, environmental studies,
work safety and industrial medicine. A similar training program,
financed by the Bank, has been successfully carried out under
Loan 1343-BR. In addition, this component includes studies on
the application of tariffs in Brazil based on marginal costs.
Telecommunications Component
66.        In the case of ELETROBRAS, the telecommunication facilities required
consist of additional channel capacity and links to existing microwave networks
of the utilities to serve as data links from the computer at the CSC to each
of the computers at the COSs of the utilities participating in SINSC. The
CHESF telecommunication system included in the project is part of an extensive
and multipurpose communication system planned for the northeast region. For
SINSC purposes, channel capacity would be provided in the northeast communica-
tion system to link the computers at CHESF's COS to the computers at the CSC
and also to the power plants, substations and dispatch centers within CHESF's
control area. Because the telecommunication link is essential for the oper-
ation of SINSC, ELETROBRAS and CHESF would take all action necessary to ensure
timely completion of the northeast telecommunication system needed for SINSC
(Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement; Section 2.08 of the draft Project
Agreement).
Project Cost
(,-17.    The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$140 million
of wlhich about US$58 million (41%) represents foreign costs. The base costs
were estimated by ELETROBRAS/CHESF and their consultants on the basis of



- 22 -
quotations of prices prevailing in December 1978, and updated by indexat-i!f
to reflect December, 1979 price levels. These prices are reasonable. The
base cost estimates include engineering and administration costs for the
project as well as applicable taxes and import duties. The cost of consultirg
services has been estimated at about US$13,500 per man-month, including
subsistence and travel expenses.  Physical contingencies average about 20% cf
the base cost which is reasonable for this type of project. Price coiltin
gencies for all costs were estimated at 12% for 1979, 10.5% for 1980, 9% f4or
1981, 8% for 1982, 7% for 1983 to 1985, and 6% thereafter.  A summary of
project costs appears in the loan and project summary at p. (ii) above.
Amount of Loan
68.       A loan amount of US$54 million is proposed to cover:  (i) the Foreign
exchange cost of the supervisory and control system (Part A oL the project);
and (ii) the foreign exchange cost of the sector training program (Part C of
the project). The proposed loan would be made to ELETROBRAS for a term of 15
years including three years of grace.  ELETROBRAS would on-lend, out of the
proposed loan, US$22 million to CHESF on terms and conditions similar to the
Bank loan.  CHESF would bear the foreign exchange risk associated .ith 1ts
portion of the loan.
Counterpart Funds
69.       The proposed project represents a relatively small percentage (less
than 1%) of the 1980-1985 investment programs of ELETROBRAS and CHESF.
ELETROBRAS and CHESF should, therefore, not have any difficulties in obtaining
sufficient financing to cover the local cost of the project. The agreement
signed between ELETROBRAS and the participating utilities for the installation
of the SINSC program (the Convenio) states that ELETROBRAS will provide any
financing needed by the utilities to cover their portion of the construction
of SINSC. These provisions are incorporated in the agreements relating to the
proposed loan (Section 6.01(g) of the draft Loan Agreement). Furthermore, as
is usual with Bank power loans, should funds provided by ELETROBRAS be inade-
quate for carrying out the project, the federal Government would make arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank for the provision of these funds (Section 2.02
of the draft Guarantee Agreement). The financial history and prospects of
ELETROBRAS and CHESF are summarized in paragraphs 53-54 and 58, respectively.
Project Implementation
70.             ELETROBRAS would be directly responsible for the implementation of
the CSC and the telecommunication and training related to the CSC.  ELETROBRAS
would also implement the sector training program.  CHESF would implement -ts
COS and the telecommunications and training connected therewith. GCGI/ELFTROBRAS
and CHESF would use the assistance of consultants to prepare specifications
and bidding documents and to provide associated engineering services as well
as supervision of construction. ELETROBRAS has alreadly contracted Hidroservice
(Brazil)/Systems Control Inc. (USA), to provide these ser-vices.  ELETROBRAS
has also used the services of the Companhia Auxiliar (le Empresas Eletricas
Brasileiras (CAEEB of BraziL) for the preparation of bidding documents for
ICB procurement. CHESF would be assisted by its consultants THMIAG (Brazil)/
STAGG (USA) in project implementation. ELETROBRAS/GCOI would supervise the



- 23 -
implementation of the COS of CHESF as well as the implementation of the
remainder of SINSC. This should facilitate the coordination of the various
components of the SINSC program. The detailed project organization within
GCOI has been specified in an agreement (Convenio) signed between ELETROBRAS
and the participating utilities. It provides for a high-level committee --
Comite de Implantacao (COIMIP) -- made up of the operations directors of
ELETROBRAS and the participating utilities to formulate policies and guidelines
for implementation. COIMP would be assisted by a SINSC coordinating committee--
Comisao de Coordenacao (COC) -- which would supervise a project implementation
unit within GCOI headed by a competent manager. The project implementation
unit would execute the SINSC program and the project through a series of
ELETROBRAS/utilities task forces dealing with specific topics and subprojects.
The arrangement for the implementation of the SINSC program and the project
are satisfactory. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985
and the entire SINSC program should be fully operational by June 30, 1986.
Bidding documents for the CSC were issued in September 1979 after the Bank's
review and acceptance. Bidding documents for the COS of CHESF were issued
at the end of April, 1980.
71.        The successful operation of SINSC will depend on a well planned and
integrated training program for the staff which would operate the CSC and the
COSs. Therefore, ELETROBRAS would prepare, by June 30, 1981, an acceptable
training program which sufficiently covers the needs of SINSC for operation and
maintenance of the system during implementation and thereafter (Section 5.03
of the draft Loan Agreement.) The foreign cost of this training program would
be financed from the proposed loan.
72.        The SINSC program is expected to contribute substantially to the
transfer of modern technology to Brazil. In view of the advanced technology
of SINSC and in order that the technology transfer objective is achieved,
ELETROBRAS would set up a panel of specialists to monitor and advise on
the various implementation phases of the SINSC program. Foreign expenses
associated with the work of the panel will be financed from the proposed loan.
Outline terms of reference for this panel were agreed upon during the negotia-
tions for the proposed loan, and ELETROBRAS has agreed to furnish final terms
of reference to the Bank by April 30, 1981.
Procurement
73.        Procurement of goods and services proposed for Bank financing,
except for standardized or proprietary items, would be through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
Special metering equipment and miscellaneous auxiliary items to he financed
from the loan would be acquired through direct purchases at an estimated cost
of about US$900,000. These items are not considered suitable for ICB either
because of the need for maintaining standardization or because they are pro-
prietary in nature.
74.        Items not financed by the Bank include the telecommunication equip-
ment for Part B of the project in the amount of US$28.9 million (24% of the
total cost of the SINSC project) which could attract foreign bidders but which
are expected to be reserved by the Government for local manufacturers because
of a current large excess domestic manufacturing capacity or the need to use
standardized or proprietary items to expand the communication systems origin-
ally purchased from local sources. Brazilian suppliers (mostly licensees or



- 24 -
affiliates of large international firms) are expected to be competitive with
foreign suppliers for a portion of the equipment for this part of the project.
Reserved local procurement of the remainder, amounting to about 10% of total
project cost, has a negligible effect on total project cost.
75.        :ecause the Brazilian control equipment industry cannot yet supply
integrated, high technology computer based control systems for power system
supervision and control, ELETROBRAS has decided thal: all such systems for the
project with the related computer hardware and software, communication inter-
face and remote terminal units (RTUs) would be furnished to the degree possible
as complete systems and under ICB by suppliers.  Wlile an on-going ELETROBRAS
survey has tentatively concluded that domestic suppliers are not likely to be
abIe to furnish some of the supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
equipment, it is possible that in the course of project execution local
industry might start producing some of these items and that the Government
would want to add such equipment to the list of reserved local procurement.
In such case, the list of goods eligible for Bank financing and the loan
amount would be correspondingly reduced.
Retroactive Financing; Di,,bursement
76.        Retroactive financing of up to US$2 million, equivalent to 3.7%
of the proposed loan, is proposed to cover consultant services and special
studies related to project: preparation initiated after June 1, 1980 and for
training connected with the project. The above activities include the detailed
design, preparation of bidding documents and related engineering services
which cannot be delayed if the implementation schedules for the proposed
project components are to be met. An estimated schedule of disbursements
appears in the project sumLmary above at p. (iii). The closing date would
be December 31, 1985.
Economic Benefits and Risks
77.        The proposed SINSC program is expected to result in an overall
improvement in sector management, significant future reductions in capital
investments in generation and transmission facilities, lower requirements for
fossil fuels for power generation, improvements in the reliability of electri-
city supply, and reductions in industrial output foregone because of power
outages. Because of the nature of the SINSC program, it is very difficult
to quantify the economic benefits associated with it. However, from the
experience of power systems elsewhere that have installed national supervi-
sion systems (e.g., Electricite de France (EdF) and ENEL in Italy), annual
savings of about 1% in generation and transmission investments can be expected
to result from SINSC. These investment savings alone, used as a minimum
measure of the project's economic benefits, would result in an internal rate
of return of about 13% for the SINSC program which compares favorably with the
opportunity cost of capital in Brazil. The internal rate of return of the
SINSC program increases to about 18% with the quantification of operational
benefits resulting from (i) savings in hydro generation (about 0.3% annually
from the experience of EdF and ENEL) and (ii) reductions in transmission losses
(about 1% annually from similar analogy with EdF and ENEL).



- 25 -
78.       The principal risk of the project is that the technology for SINSC,
which has been developed outside Brazil and is highly advanced, will not be
rapidly and fully absorbed within the country. The provisions for technical
assistance and training included in the project, including the establishment
of a special panel of experts to monitor and advise on project implementation,
make this risk acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and ELETROBRAS, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and CHESF, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank, draft supplemental
letter No. 1 regarding Revenues of CHESF, No. 2 regarding Cost of Service, and
No. 3 regarding sector planning, and the draft Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
80.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 4, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-26-                                     ANNEX I
7ageI
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           8512.0
AGRICULTURAL    2067.2                                  MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MiIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USE)                  320.0        580.0    1570.0                   1384.1                    2381.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      332.0       474.0      794.0                   1055.9                    1541.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      71.5         95.2     119.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.1          55.9      63.3                     63.4                      53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       201.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         345.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. XM.                         8.0         11.0      14.0                     28.1                      77.2
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      44.0        49.0       58.0                     81.7                     [29.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.6         42.6      41.7                     41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                          53.8        54.3       54.9                     54.7                      61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6         3.1        3.4                      3.9                       8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.0          2.9       2.8                      2.7                       1.6
URBAN                               5.5          4.8       4.5                      4.1                       3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      40.0         38.0      36.0                     34.8                      22.8
CRLDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      11.0          9.0       9.D                      8.9                       8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.6          2.6       2.4                      2.5                       1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        111.0     203.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           1.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOS PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           89.0        102.0     112.0                    106.9                     113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   (01.0        104.0     107.2                    107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           61.0        62.0       62.7                     65.6                      91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        34.0         34.0      35.1                     33.7                      39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      13.0         10.0       9.0                      8.4                       4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    57.0          61.0      62.0                     63.1                      67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..           ..        ..                     66.5                      55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         56.3      77.1                     65.9
URBAN                                ..         77.7      88.8                     80.4
RURAL                                ..         29.0      56.6                     44.0                        .
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         59.9      64.8                     62.3
URBAN                                ..         86.1      83.7                     79.4
RURAL                                ..         26.5      31.7                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           3600.0       1910.0    1700.0                   1849.2                    1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       3220.0        ..                   1227.5                     929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             3C9.0        262.0     253.0                    480.3                     289.7
URBAN                                ..           ..
RtRAL                                ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         18.0        ..                       ..                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.1          4.8       4.9
URBAN                                ..          4.6       4.7
RURAL                                --          5.2       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ,,          1.1         ..
URBAN                                ..          1.0
RURAL                                ..          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              38.7         47.6      63.0
URBAN                                ..         75.6      84.9
RURAL                                ..          8.4      19.2



- 27 -                                      ANNEX I
Page I
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAfS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
EOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /.b    1970 /b ESTIMATE l'    LATIN AMSERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED Z'.ROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 95.0        125.0       90.0/c                    99.7'                     105.9
MALE                   97.0        125.0      89.Ojc                   101.0                       109.3
FEMA-E                93.0        125.0       90.0Oc                    99.4                      103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   11.0        26.0       24.0/c                    34.4                       64.0
'SALE                  11.0        26.0       22.0/c                    33.5                        71.1
FE1ALE                 10.0        26.0       26.0/c                    34.7                       56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (C OF SECONDARY)  19.0            r7.0       47.0 .Lc                 38.2                        28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
FRII/AP.Y                           33.0         28.0       22.0                      30.5                       29.4
SECONDARY                            13.0         13.0      11.0                      14.5                       26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          61.0         66.2       75. '                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            7.0         25.0      52.4                      43.0                       84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          66.0        124.0      155.0                     245.3                      192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           17.0         64.0      93.0                      84.2                      118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    54.0         37.0       39.0                      63.3                       93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0             1.9        2.6                        ..                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22872.9        30057.3   37704.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     17.5         20.4      22.0                      22.2                       30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                51.9         45.6      41.0                      37.1                       37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   14.8         18.3      22.0                      23.5                       29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  32.0         31.6       31.5                      31.5                      40.9
MALE                                   52.7         50.3       49.5                      48.9                      55.9
FEIIALE                                11.2         12.8       13.6                      14.0                       26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.4          1.4        1.4                       1.4                        1.0
INCOME DISTRIBL'TION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOISE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCEINT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0          63.5       62.0.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8             3.2       2.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8             9.0       9.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED A3SOLUTE POVERTY INCOIT&-
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
LRBAN                                 ..
RLRAL                                 ..           ..      150.0                     190.8.
EST''iATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
'JRBAN                                 ..           ..     465.0                     474.0
R'RAL                                 ..            ..     332.0                     332.5                      385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION SELOI4 ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOM4E LZV-L (PERCENT)
'3RBAN                                ....                     ....
RURAL                                 ..
. ot available
Not applicable.
N;OTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/S   Unless otherwise noted, data 6cr 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
' 3eginnig 1973 orinary and aecondary edocations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 Instead of 7-L0 and Li-17
n earlier sears; wherefore most recent estimates are not comoarable with earlier data.
April. 1980



-28 -                                                                            ANNEX I
90gw 3
Cc,  O r's       c--c-   --s   coog    r~~~~~ay'cdgcdohacctn  aI ho   atoila aocralahla, ,-oholdnbaootdent-.Itrbcyroy-                           ttltoe
f    conosad      dcocntdatcdby            fnccon-           ri-      r'inacec dat.   ba~d-cae,na
Sc-   ,-.  'cor   ooso 5da-           lo Cool-lnp-toert  Irsnbe                   "ttdei,nco-N-flortboietoaar iddl  e-ot'ancham-  benantenfotnong
o    - ,l fa'tcritcc).    1-I ro  onnaro IgIoc  dat- h  a                  .an   ate ...oitio   _ighetad ttb-eicmat  foe each ondino-n  and Ihc-  only whena
l,co     0  h   orte             0Fcndh   o  ota  inicaor   Since the noeaeofootta .n   nh.s  ndi                              -an  dapeod. note.      ala  uyo
octa.   Foooic, ao             o-toticc.ion    oegttoantaoo                                      nte         recnaaecotf.on                        ayalltboa
)srofop   -tn: 0   rcsaoroo-cnanloccceotl I1roco.nr   occFosn                                                            noat          -Idocdhby -nte- A   -ectiont,
cc,oa-oooodc    hog<Oco    ro    cOaJooil';l17, Wdat.             n.aiaoooccactadc-a            . acorn-n
ho  06  SF10,  000-00r  a0Cy        Stnacoro               ac    rOt,ot                nnlkicorootooIe                   oa    riar.          tl     - ryaato   (total
tac-or'c,cccrc>sr0o-  ol accord   <cR00000                             cebac, and coca) dlotded bychainctopenticb  coobee afby        boopital bade11 I   1. II I I  II "
- ,                                   ".             i (I67 OoTb-iloL  1960,               ashaltyhcadrcc    eea   csaiAitdonelad-
.ccaod   bdi'.c-.                                                                          -atletno            -nr.  ho-pitalt ar  -craitchoann   peroc-neo  -nscffed
by at  coa  tot phycicino_. hoesh.i.h.e.c. P.ondio mgiotylyIntoia
00 g400 it,        a    ar.  o   ocd       --cro    tobra    lo                             ceoter  no     ---ooeny  -oaffd by a phycici-o (hoc bya. medicat aaiac
ccc 00,~0 coO  oon  ~a   a30000I-so n's-  ca,; 1960, l97l, and 1978nca  aldtic, n                                      Ift-  offer to-atIent .c.odati- and  -rIode 
limited  -Iog  of aedi.na-  anIlicis    o  aattrt   o ae    ra  boapi-
so    n0oacl<sd-I'-Alcn.         o-A   si  1: 1960, 19(0, and 1973        ~     g~oc&Cimollics-lcdr0   dlcooo   0ditchasgc
hrr   otlooltl dicoded bo toe schar of lad.
tat'   ocolooconCo  age a~~~--,I.0          -d co   oti    n   aclt  rac19n.       ch  banbId for .aeticclorct
I-<cooOcC -                   colalgat 77.5 yaar.  Tho par-                      d-llfiog, ra c Ln , ly.Dolliogcao IoIdanon-cr_a_ tecotaa
cOc -ot Iot-lbo      .a-aitg dc-lace in,                o'.cociId pro
c-s          -c-c    - c - Ida r.-c  ac- io 5  cnn  yaaee a.              50cc. no Flecncc   ssaea   oligo      ca.sbo   o   oa 
50'ic    ro    a  i.      atccr I    nccac- I    Chaa    -o groth oss-o
cc --cocdccloactardaaooa'rtc ...n.ra.a-                 CDICOTIC,N
- lO,, c-  r-ci-d ccly dor    ort_   oy cat at dacIino to             ,cdlocd loro1in-o  Ool.ti
scot-c rcat  ho  aot  fracaccis                       ter Iobclag  nnclcisa   oawIiyscado                      ldnr- Agad 6-IA
sac ctdo    .-oclo.fc  r0-'c0oocoralan-             eochpodlcodfodhi.n.. teghaftc-aycdcaioofo
too'  r--da,         c-c c.alecadobcaatSCyotdcgcrlonotti   ocahrr l-drfontr -Cio .cf..yIyl
ocaly  f  2c t-  yat-  ofI ag-; nf rop1 dwcooc-oe   go..sI
ia'>nc  101C  1900 c no  19 3 dora.                                          rscol-neanbar raclo - crlwaro 0 and occoolsor - fonaf caodeoacerroliwd anI-a   -.,,d  cliid~d
L.o  a Ic   scco dcojcrcan  -ocro- dcoalfrot h  anc  of  ota  rid  Frworyaodccodae    i-woal           ... iid d hy nwbr  cc caalhl  oi  th
Fear royoanaat-   o''d   ru0  SC  'F. acd 1970-70.           oatrePI,,arondhong t-oraic.
orocatoc  -onto_              ...____-__.. acaoal  geo-  tacIf adn orc .. I00                dynt lyIeracen                       _da_n tanta      ol t   e0  o
la-   00,0130,9760     93   dc 9  -0aoy eog-o   co  adotpo ooo  age  1,1 -aroad o.
c-rdanocodcnaatI~~oCccsdccocollce  ta-ho ccc chosoordofolo-veon~1
IAt  o<as .-6' o96F  0000 aoo 19g_o coCg-   ,'   60   n   97                         raost   ogoelciI   e   bsodo   oooto    o odcat-
IocOola,o-acatnc,c'.,oscooarc.-occicahco   aOtocr                     C    AcIfceoIctcoe           plawoisyaswa-          ccglcrd ccCocodcs-
or  hco-scnu    0                   rlotcl  o--so--hon-Il ho...0     d nlrliro-al.           acoleodnfeewcyaaantbccosleccoa
0cl     96I-t- 3,c    act  rO97 o  roocoFr'co--wrld                                     oosooossodlcc 
ott1LRa                 -       -- Ic-boar)ac<ctcro-ccctro  idwo-rcP-c- CseeCer. (-crhoutod_Z0aialon-dACa-ocr   foe.  -poai-ss -o
FF0 .000 NUn  <cC                                                             'Ocotcaoec Co   lat~~~~~allf-  -i-. I--tothc ..oaao   oo Anlol - lb cogfioocoeredla
PIooo                                             A l c Frdoa. Ocaoo.-ccactodlosoYcclnwoenlariccntoefgcslwc   Ic. IccooIdwa
o or caocd~c  OoF 0 o  - onoccs d00c  sia   Icods It.  Cteoe                    t   e'aiy   fiees               o  leic  loe   dww    Iwek
-n-cad   Ooz,''-cgdcoocartfoarIItaodr-ss    (g.c-featd C-rwasnoaotecdaIaac  a                                                                    -ac-bee-taeiaohas -bro
000-t cc..c....nca .o.dat,1L'nao                 ro fr  -baccd das                 c...e  cold dbarilof tli e-      onoln    dioln   adlc-oict
~~c   001cc oeUhf  a-I croon  don-arc                                               l      Y-cac.lr -ac-oc-   f -l-ncotadIfr-t
00~d  00coco   a  cc  l     t7100o.Oaba-FCrctoca   hna         hFf0
at-  F-C-  o1cola-t o2,       n  co tint        C~ d   Iot. srd-oro                                   ddotolco Tnlfaoryri tccatd(-   ccolailoorairsc,  oldici.P
ncocsoo,cc'cacsgcooc<col.-PI ca  t0cnccIa   acLtfaIfe oacrrttooanooYbtocnccI'll,aa,eoettco
o.sc-occccod   oa    0c-co-c,adlcoaoc.dioetceio.    mqsro-       Oofcaooolo   oscat.otccocnaraootco11       a    os ..racI ;160i9?-aid-
e.ocrccosd-00od'roaogacedI IoCIooc                                                    0Ssn
roc-cd    -b.    -ssco-C--tsccC  -nocaOto,bcscechtoas              i-oko.wCo            aaclc  oco    oratgo-colbrra
Y"oc   cro i'sc 000.oa   crdIl                      -doo0X  r ,ro ........oth 00   oeosoily`coIit  pooortoratotaeeonw,eorsi r5.                   no.tca.
ho-ioco  c;  6h5 -<    a'0I -.1            -ri- data.f~~'                        tibtgcproag ofooiaonoce190    Tlo   9fdt.
* oroFhnaccaocon.sco.,o             coseoafFacaOla                ldosoo iA-rclAnc!d.LbcoooCr-o IrY                   'B.dIniiooar0n h,aoob-r0If
cc   s0    -o psd,    c.oocloao c-c-                                               eo-dcry b-  t Ie,-     ilnduiec g octet  sod  il  di-caopa-toaoftoa  dlabor- ot  196...
dool I rod  boos . .0 c 0', IIIt0-d -                                                         - -cItI -ana
-oo-aFo'ar.-aonoc_~cys   Oc  <coo'' 0-drI ,  - no    Fsoirtpyyo-cdd-              ag-cncc          -tre  oebIIpis -o,ao -lottlcbrrd I               Ofasacc- -
) - p ~ ~   f PII I.,i-        FroeeseofOict - Isowbaltoala kid -fweroyriCo
Cc, o7c0000 ad-dc   00000   0s'0~Ia -cE-hoof   cot   llarc cs-                      od-ocobo-do
-o  lco;  ,6        '0cc  I0  doar-.1-db    -I                     --
o rdar    o'lo    aoCo   s-  c'I-              -t   p- -0 tot  ncde  Ott,  sr           011101000101 IcI        li,IOFOl
prgoo -bocn-''O'  h-o-                                                               gtlwcwdboo1cOonet75           co   Law-   II  carachl t             boadcra-
o ,rator   F a.odS ..... z. cooo   o     -                                                  _  _  _   __   _  _  _   _  __   _  _  _   __   _  __7__          _  _   _  _
-"ly                 -.-a aAonion  poor-   Cnoooa-....    -t   lh ow -Pais cho d 1-00g ti-m  t-ldnAahlcba-ica
so-coo         --.   1            i  9-l;, soac    1Oaa1-5,b    197 aoacl 00tae            naoroahoaoo    itcan9soolnntl   antnoc                                       0
00    0   0 c  nocoococta boo accncoaifolnaoedi-- affordable,la .-
Cb-1-1                        a 1A    A r    ~~~~~d--aconIIrycallclact- Occow laboTcoOcctloooaell  lcalnl                                       tao-ca
cOcOc00   o  onc-cFoorcotao tO ha.   rt  a7011                             tta  ewoocayooe.rbonelea-Os  neebrdofasrea  atOslt
(oacd-corta' -o load                                        'ro9oahoIf oaoay  be        IIos-TRIlsToonocb nto.    Oblalcaeidfo leea
H~~~~~ALTL0                                               00    o  oaloac               Icastbdjk-tao   olibectoo  isnocr-o-roraat.                                 h
Fodocabcart      0000so oowoooccc  oe  onobocd                 lenesod Peshtl- tab  o.. ..iaco             2on 0n Income LslIned -r-        40 ebot
dorhoo,oc'Oo  d,orct                               ocA--hcgtb                       adrco--orIfcofynololcdcbfocdoralnbar-aitIitrg
000 r     0       hfio'<
lao sc   or soo t  hOO         y-O
Ocagor to''cc  000 cc  tO  cc.   ocatoicc                                               OrocoVEcoo lroalEacs Ootaic
oh  0cm-ceo                    osro  o -aatngCooloaylooyoetotlgrto
ri  oOclao            i ...-al    ~'t...tli-



-29-
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                                               ANNEX I
Page 4
Population:      122.9       (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita: U5$1,687   (1979)
Amount                          Average Annual Increaise -  )                   Share of GDP at Market Prices (7- )
Indicator                                         (million US$ current)                     (at constant 1970 prices)                              (at current Drices)
1979                          1965-70      1970-75      1975-80                  1965      1970     1975      1979
Netionnal Accounts
Groan domeatic productA/                                206,043                           7.7         10.6          5.8                   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture                                            19,462                           1.9          5.7          4.3                    13.2       8.2       8.7      9.5
Industry                                               65,583                           9.2         11.6          6.1                    27.1      29.1     32.6      31.8
Services                                              87,636                            8.0         10.7          5.8                    42.9     43,0      41.3      42.5
ConsumPtion                                             163,739                           7.7          9.8          6.1                    75.9      76.9      78.6     79.5
Gross investment                                         46,530                           9.4         14.6          4.6                    22.0      23.5      25.4     22.6
Emports of gcods and NFS                                 15,245                           8.2         11.2          6.2                     7.4       6.6       7.4      7.4
Imports of goods and NUS                                 19,471                          14.5         17.2          1.5                     5.3       7.0      11.4      9.5
Green domestic savings                                   42,304                           7.9         12.9          6.1                    24.1      23.1     21.4      20.5
Amount                          Average Annual Increase (')                     Composition nf Merchandise Trade (7.
(million U3$ curren t)                    (at  ..- tant 1970 pri-s)                             (at current prices)
1979                          1963-70      1970-75      1975-80                   1966     1970      1975      1980b/
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise exp-rts                                     15,244                           7.8         11.5          6.5                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Ptinary                                               6,631                            7.3          8.5        -6.8                     82.9      75.1      61.8      57.9
Manufactures                                           8,613                           7.9         12.2          8.3                     17.1     24.9      38.2      42.1
Merchandise imports                                     17,961                          10.0         13.6          8.3                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                                     985                          -3.8          5.3        24.9                      11.5      4.5       3.0       6.5
Petroleum                                             6,698                           9.3         14.1           8.3                     14.7     11.2      24.5      52.1
Machinery and equip-ent                               2,242                           22.1        16.8        -15.9                      15.2     21.2      14.0      16.6
Other                                                 8,036                            8.3        12.6         13.5                      58.6     63.1      58.5      24.8
1975      1976       1977    _1978        1979
Prices and Tems of Trade
GDP deflat-r (1970-100)                                 289.6     410.9      584.2      809.2   1,229.6
Exchange rate (Cr$/Us$)                                   8.1      10.6       14.1       18.0       26.8
EIport price index (1970=100)                           189.0     218.0      266.0      238.5      262.3
Inport price index (1970=100)                          221.0      227.0      236.0      241.9      295.0
Term  of trude index (1970=100)                          85.5      96.0      112.7       98.6       88.6
As 7. of GDP
(as current prices)
1970      1975       1978
Public Fina..ce (Treasury Budget)
Current revenue                                                   16.6       19.8       20.4
Current empenditure                                               14.4       15.8       18.6
Surplus (+) me deficit (-)                                         2.2        4.0        1.8
Capital empenditure                                                2.6        3.8        3.9
Financing (net)                                                     0.4      -0.2        2.1
1965-70      1970-75     1975-79
Other Indicators
GNP gro-th rate (7.)                                                           7.7         10.7          5.8
GNP per capita growth rate (.)                                                 4.6          7.7          3.0
Energy consumption gr-wth rate (7)                                             7.2          7.3          6.5
ICOR                                                                           2.9          3.0          3.9
Marginal savings tate                                                         20.5         25.7         22.7
Import elasticity                                                              2.2          1.6          0.3
a/ At macket prices; components are net domestic products expressed at factor cost and
will not add due tm erclusion of depreciation and indirect tames less sushidies.
b/ Estimate
April 25, 1980



-30 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND  DEBT                                             Pge 3
(million USS at cu rent prices)
Pes-letion:        122.8  Mil.e. (mid-1979)
GNP Pee Cepina:  US$1,687 (1979)
1970          1975           8976          1977           197           19v7911        9980           191           1987        I 191              9
Netceapts eE Pay ents     and n-ie                       -583        -6,702         -6,018        -4,037         -5,999        -9, 7274      -10,753         1,550         -11,539       -11,134        -10,430
Exoores ef gonds                                     (2,739)       (8,670)       (10,128)      (12,120)      (12,659)       (15,241)       (20,190)       (25,776)        (29,844)      (35,491)       (42,343)
Irporc-  ef -ends                                    (2,507)      (12,210)      (12,393)        2,723)       (13,683)       (1,7961        (1 (21,9269    (26,425)        (30,030)      (34,277)       (38,933)
Nel  --ta   - Tes1                                                         2             1           -72                            17             71            4f              57             57             51
Crent  nc-           balan                               -562        -6,700         -6,017        -4,037         -5,927        -9,757        -10,723        -11,510         -11,439       -11549         -10,410
Di-t e  i    t   nvetrrtZ'                                 92            892           959           910            906         2,209           1,176         1,7147          1,996          2,259         2,550
MAT  ean ve                                               767         3.760          5,023         4,631          8,919         4,995          7,829         12,212          11,910        12,223         11,703
Trediei-nal souce                                      (933)       (1,408)        (2,052)       (2,648)        (2,793)       (2,7387        (2,8Dl)        (3,538)         (4,148)       74,673)        ¢5,164)
Flnanclel cradles                                      (434)       (4,524)        (3,980)       (6,118)       (11,312)       (8,809)       (11,930)       (16,123)        (16,162)      (16,839)       (18,081)
Amoseelacinn                                          (-632)      (-2,172)       (-3,009)      (-4,135)       (-5,276)      (-6.551)       (-6,982)       (-7,449)        (-6,137)      (-3,236)      1-1.1545)
Brecili-e leave abroed (sac)                             -             -197           -248          -267           -358          -596           -782         -1,096          -1,434        -1,890         -2,470
StIn-  maT  ,l  -al.                                      749         1,295          2,677          -507            417            -61           -             - 
Che-gc in resers-cs  -incs-                                              937        -2,344          -3 30        -3,980         3,219          2,500         -1,353            -983        -1,188         -1,293
Internetlonal reserves4/                                1,142         3,980          6,488         7,192         11,826         8,966          6,466          7,919           8,802         9,390         11 .283
Reserves easmonths of mip-rtt5'                             5-3            3,9            6.3           7.2          10.4            6.0            3.6            3.6             3.5           3.5            3. 5
ACTUAL
19974         1975           1976          197)           1979          1979
Gress lisbsrs~eset
T-tel grass disb-rseaenc  of MALT leans                                7,254         5,932         8,032          9,766        14,105         11,546_/
Public sad  publicly   g-enan-eed                                   2,937          3,731         4,624         4,620         10,376
Official e         -por  credits                                    ,08            396           368            167           413
1BRD 147                                                                           250           173            299           275
Oth-r multlateral                                                  139            119           111             92           136
Private source                                                    2,143         2,966          3,972         4,062          9.532
Privare non-gearant-ed                                              4,317          2,201         3,408          4,146          3,749
Internal Debe
Tetni debt -oustondieg end disbersed                                 17,576         01,920        26,984         32,224        43,174         49,9Q46/
Ptblit and  publicly  guoranteed                                    9,394         12,328        15,931        19,218         27,223
Official seur                                                     3,276          3,854         4,320         4,612          5,229
IBRD                                                             (871)       (1,093)        (1,217)       (1,413)        (1,615)
Other                                                          (2,475)       (2,761)        (3,103)       (3,199)        (3,614)
Pci-etneecc6,129                                                                9,471         11,531        14,608         21,994
Prvate-  s-g-re d                                                   8,1.2          9,592        11,133        13,006         15,951
Undisbersed debt (pobli  only)                                       2,5314         2,380         3,446          4,004         4,535
Debt Service
Total dabt -erice ps3eents                                           3,270          4,035         1,120          6,59)7         8,629        11,912
I--eea   (gra-)                                                    (1,319O)       (1,863)       (2,291)        (2,462)       (3,342(        (3,261)
Pfyne.te an % of ECports &NAS                                            38.8           43.0          47.2           51.4           64.1          72.6
Payments as % of CNP                                                      3.1            3.3           3.6            4.1            4.7           5.9
A-erege Inecest sate on sea leans (%)                                     At.6             .3o          B.0           d.3            9.5
Official s-rce                                                           7.0           7.8            7.9           9.2            7.7
Average matritly of new I.as.                                             10.9           8.7           10.2          10.1           10.1
Officigl coerce                                                         14.6          18.4          16.3           16.6           14.1
Private seoree                                                          9.7            5.8           7.0            9.0           9.6
IBRD aD.s.re
IBRD DOD/fatal DOD (7)                                                     5.0            5.0           4.3            4.4           3.7            3.6
lBED dieb.rseees..-tOtal g.ss.  dlsb-tsesenss (b7                          3.4            3.6           2.2            3.5           1.7            2.6
aBRD de. eserece/notal debt servele (%)                                    3.4            2.5           3.3           4.0            2.9            2.0
Ae % of totaI  debt o-tst-nding
at nd nof Jane 1979
Debt Structure
Sttorsny stru toce of debt enus tanding
MeeritDes dee stithin 5sOearY                                                                               66.3
sta.ectles doe vihin 10 years                                                                              92.6
1/ EstImate.
2/ Exnluding ce-invested pr-fits.
3/  Exeluding dollar -al.at..n adj-tnceats.
4I  RxclEding geld, and in-luding dollar naloation ad)je-ereto.
5/ Goods only.
67  leeailsoesaeallabla,
October 22, 1990



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANEK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A.  SUM2ARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of October 31, 1980)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower                Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-seven loans fully disbursed                                  1,552.1
756   1971  Brazil                              Ports                45.0            2.7
853   1972  Brazil                              Land Settlement       6.7            0.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -         Power               125.0           11.2
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                              Agro-Industry        42.3            8.0
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao          Power                81.0           21.1
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1067   1974  Brazil                              Education            23.5           12.2
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways            175.0           15.0
1075   1975  Brazil                              Roads               110.0           23.5
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                 95.0           33.9
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                 60.0           43.0
1153   1975  Brazil                              Agriculture          23.0           10.1
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista          Railways             75.0           22.2
1195   1976  Brazil                              Rural Development  12.0              9.5
1207   1976  Brazil                              Feeder Roads         55.0           45.2
1249   1976  Brazil                              Agriculture          40.0           24.9
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes             Fertilizer           50.0            0.3
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de             Power                46.5            2.7
Energia Eletrica - COPEL
1300    1976  Eletrobras                        Power                 50.0           10.8
1302    1976  Brazil                            Nutrition             19.0           15.4
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply              40.0           14.9
1317    1976  Brazil                            Agro-Industry         83.0          83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSIUL                        Power                 82.0          31.3
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development   42.0             17.3
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer            64.0          40.0
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do             Fertilizer            55.0            4.2
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  Brazil                            Education             32.0          26.1
1488    1977  Brazil                            Rural Development   17.0             13.5
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Pabitacao   Sewerage                 110.0          96.6
1537    1978  Brazil                            Rural Developnent   24.0            21.4
1538    1978  ELETROBPRAS                       Power                1(30.0        118.1
1557    1978  Brazil                            Poads                114.0         102.5
1562    1978  COPESUL                           Petrochemicals        85.0          45.2
1563    1978  Brazil                            VrB.n Tr,-psport      *'.           69.5
1568    1978  Braz.!                            Agric. Fxt-rLi or   I ; ;             .3



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.  SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of October 31, 1980)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower               Purpose       Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                            Rural Development   37.0            33.4
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0                87.5
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0                97.9
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.             Aluminum              98.0          73.9
1714    1979  Brazil                            Rural Development   26.0            25.0
1720    1979  Brazil                            Urban 'Development   70.0           70.0
1721    1979  COPEL                             Power                109.0         107.1
1728    1979  Brazil                            Rural Development   40.0            38.6
1729    1979  Brazil                            Irrigation            28.0          27.3
1730    1979  Brazil                            Roads                110.0         110.0
1822 /1 1980  Brazil/BNDE                       Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                  Water Supply         130.0          130.0
1824    1980  CEEE                              Power                114.0         114.0
1839 /1 1980  Brazil                            Urban Transport    159.0           159.0
1850 /1 1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Stupply            139.0         139.0
1867 /l 1980  Brazil                            Education             32.0          32.0
1877 /1 1980  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development   63.0            63.0
1895 /1  1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                125.0         125.0
Total                                               5,283.1 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                   678.9
Total now outstanding                               4,604.2
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid             43.9              1.9
Total now he:Ld by Bank                              4,602.3
Total undisbursed                                                  2,578.5
/1   Not yet effective.
12   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



AlNEX 1I
Page 3
- 33 -
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of August 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                 Obligor                                       Type of Business          Anount in US$ million
Year                                                                                                         Loans    Eqnity    Total
1957               Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                       Electrical Equipment         2.00       -         2.00
1958               Olinkraft, S. A. Celulose e Papel                            Pulp and Paper               1.20       -         1.20
1958               D. L. R. Plasticos do Brasil, S. A.                          Automotive Parts             0.45       -         0.45
1958               Willys-Overland do Brasil, S. A.                             Motor Vehicles               2.45       -         2.45
Industria e Comercio
1959               Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S. A.                 Cement                       1.20       -         1.20
1959               Champion Celulose, S. A.                                     Pulp                         4.00       -         4.00
1966/1968/1972    Acos Villares, S. A.                                          Steel                        8.00      1.93       9.93
1966/1969          Papel a Celulose Catarinense, S. A.                          Pulp and Paper               3.78      3.41       7.19
1967/1972          Ultrafertil, S. A. - Industria e Comercio                    Fertilizers                  8.22      3.03      11.25
de Fertilizantes
1969               Petroquimica Uniao, S. A.                                    Petrochemicals               5.50      2.88       8.38
1970               Poliolefinas, S. A. Industria e Comercio                     Petrochemicals               5.50      2.88      8.38
1971               Oxiteno, S. A. Industria e Comercio                          Petrochemicals               4.60      1.44       6.04
1971               Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                    Pulp                         4.90       -        4.90
1972/1975          Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                       Cement                      29.14      3.20     32.34
1973/1974/         Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                 Steel                       76.97     11.22     88.19
1977/1981
1973               Capital Market Development Fund -FUMCAP                      Capital Market               5.00       -         5.00
Development
1973/1978          Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                       Nickel Mining and           85.00      8.34      93.34
Minerais - CODEMIN, S. A.                                    Refining
1974               Industrias Villares, S. A.                                   Elevators and                6.00       -         5.00
Industrial Equipment
1974               Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S. A.                            Textiles                   31.00        -       31.00
1975/1979          Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                             Carbon Black                 6.18      1.19       7.37
1975               Oxitene Nordeaste, S. A.                                     Petrochemicals              10.00       -       10.00
1976               Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S. A.               Textiles                     6.45      1.00       7.45
1976/1980          Tecanor S. A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste               Textiles                    16.20       -       16.20
1977               FMB S. A. Productos Metalurgicos                             Iron and Aluminum           20.00       -        20.00
Castings
1977               Mineracao Rio do Norte S. A.                                 Mining                      15.00       -        15.00
1978               Cimetal Siderurgia S. A.                                     Iron and Steel               7.0      3.0        10.0
1979               Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicules S. A.                     Motor Vehicles              60.00    5.00        65.00
1980               Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                            Ready-made Garments          2.00      -          2.00
1980               Dende do Para S/A - Denpasa - Agriculture,                   Palm-Oil                     3.50    1.00         4.50
Industria e Cemercio de Oelaginosas
1980               Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                   Iron and Steel               5.00      -          1.00
1980               PPH - Companhia Industrial de Polipropileno                  Chemicals and               15.00    2.00        17.00
Petr-chemicals
1980               Destilaria Cianorte S. A.                                    Chemicals and                 -       0.25        0.25
Petrochemicals
1980               Sotave Amazonia Quimica e Mineral S/A                        Fertilizers                 16.00    4.00        20.00
1980               Polisul Petrequtiica                                         Chemicals and               15.00    5.00        20.00
Petrochemicals
Total Gross Commitments                                                                482.24   60.77       543.C1
Less Cancellatiens, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                 329.97    8.53       3?.HR
Total Commitments Now Bald by IFC                                                      152.?'7    ..on
Total Undisbursec                                                                      237.43    1.12       ?.13



- 34 -
ANNEX' II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTIONI 11
As of October 31, 1980, there were 46 efiFective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
756        Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
After long delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Project compleltion is now expected by end-1980. The financial
condition of the port of Santos has improved. Price escalation for
civil works continues to increase the project cost.  All of the
increase is in local currency and is being covered by additional
allocations from Brazil's federal port authority, POPTOBRAS.
Since the Bank can accept disbursement applications up to a period
of 3 months after the closing date, and since the Borrower expects
that the undisbursed balance will be exhausted before December 31,
1980, it was agreed that no further extension of the closing date
would be necessary.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of
July 24, 1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.  The now completed road component of the project
was reduced from the original 306 to 238 km. Other aspects of the
project are also nearing completion and 8,000 families have settled
in the project area, more than half already receiving full project
ser-vices. However, the project has taken much longer than expected
to complete, having been subject to administrative delays in the
release of public funds, unforeseen legal complications in transfer-
ring land titles from the state to COLONE, the executing agency,
and subsequently to settlers. However, the first 883 land titles
were issued to settlers during October 1980. Cost overruns presently
amount to about 240% of appraisal estimate.
923        Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.  The project is about 75% completed.  Major procurement has
been completed.  However, commissioning oL the units is expected to
be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
geological problems and very heavy rains which delayed construction
of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is about 39% over
the appraisal cost estimate, due mainly to a substantial increase in
the size of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of
civil works.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and -with the uinderstanding
that they 1 not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and  ->kr,e  (s io project execution.



- 35 -
ANITEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: Mlarch 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. These funds were prepaid by the Government,
reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commitments
under this loan were almost at a standstill as a result of competing
credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down in indus-
trial investments. The original Closing Date was postponed once--
from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1979. In view of the slow
disbursement, and the fact that commitments under Loan No. 1317-BR
had not yet started, the Bank decided to allow the Closing Date to
lapse, and has cancelled the amount of US$11,737,035.97, correspond-
ing to the uncommitted balance of Loan No. 924-BR as of June 30,
1979. The Borrower will be permitted to draw down until December 31,
1980 up to the amount of US$16,537,353.30, corresponding to the
amount of Loan No. 924-BR committed as of June 30, 1979 against
approved sub-projects but not yet disbursed as of that date.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because of delays
by the government in providing counterpart financing. Government
proposals to expand the project content in light of cost savings
accrued during execution are currently being reviewed by the Bank.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is riot expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to carry out its investment program
effectively.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1075      Fifth Highway Prolect:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981.
P'roject execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are completed. Implementation
of the road weighing station program and the maintenance component is
making progress after some initial delays. The closing date originally
December 31, 1979 has been postponed to December 31, 1981.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials, some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program, and funding shortfalls from the federal government.
The Government has reassigned priority to the steel sector.
Substantial changes were made resulting in better management and
control of the project.  The project remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
Stage III project was revised with the assistance of consultants.
Stage III has been proceeding at a reducedl pace in part because
of uncertainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds
to fully finance the project.  However, with the assurance of the
availability of sufficient federal funding because of the priority
assigned to the steel sector by the federal government, no further
delays are envisaged. The revised project cost is US$1.7 billion
which is 44% above the appraisal estimate. However, the project
remains economically justified. Following reformulation of the
project description to reflect the current situation, the Closing
Date was postponed to December 30, 1983 to allow the Borrower
adequate time tc complete the project and to draw down the loan.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. A series of major contracts, some recently
signed by CODEVASF, others in the process of being awarded,
should result in accelerated and more regular disbursements in
the period ahead. The Bank has agreed to a CODEVASF proposal
to replace works previously planned for certain areas with the
rehabilitation of several flood plain areas which suffered
heavily from floods in 1979. Land acquisition has been carried
out in all flood plains but one, which is planned to be expro-
priated in 1981. Negotiations are continuing between CODEVASF
and CHESF to enable discharges from the Solbradinho dam to be
programmed so as not to hamper construction work in the Lower
Sao Francisco area.



- 37 -
Loan No.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 mi llio1i         -     rer 2.
1975; Effective Date:  March 24, 1976ClLn;             r             Ioii  '  9
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorilyv    -r -!
continue to improve.  Freight traffic has increased 422 durinrg the
first six months of 1980 compared with a similar pe-'od fin 1979.
The railway has reduced its operating cost by 20'% in the past
year due to reduction in staff and improvement of train ope at±o.nsC
FEPASA's financial position, however, continues to remain weak
because of its high debt service.  FEPASA and the Sao Paulo state
government are preparing investment and financial plans to put
FEPASA on a sound financial footing. The Bank is moritoring this
process closely.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule.  The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage,
support to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and
inland fisheries. Serious droughts in 1979 and 1980, coupled
with delays in the release of funds, have slowed down the imnle-
nentation of Phase II.  The closing date for this loan was post-
poned to September 30, 1982 to coincide with the Phase II
schedule.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date:  July 13, 1976; Closinc Date:
December 31, 1981. Fifteen sub-projects involving twelva different
states have been approved, committing the full amount of the loan.
Construction has been completed in one state, Goias. Construction
is underway in five additional states, Bahia, Mlinas Gerais, Matn
Grosso do Sul, Paraiba and Alogoas. Twenty percent of the physical
work foreseen under the project, about 1,100 kms, is now completed.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  ITS$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.  Progress in project implementation was steady
during the first half of 1980. However, several restrictions
placed on hiring of new staff, including local consultants, import
resLrictions and reductions in the number of staff participating
in either long- or short-term traiining programs were all made
effective during mid-June 1980.  These controls whichl have been
instituted as part of the government's economic stabilization
program are adversely affecting the implementation of this
project. Required corrective measures are being discussed with
the Government, and it is expected that the project would shortly
be exempted from these restrictions.



- 38 -
ANTNEX I-
Page 8
Loan No.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date:  July 20, 1976; Closing Date:  D-cember 31_ 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisa:L estimate of US$272
million.  All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equ:iLty commitment the project
has no financing gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19.
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1980.
Major project works were completed on schedule but overall project
completion is about 1 year behind schedule and about 98% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed.  Disbursements
lag about 10% behind appraisal forecast. An amount of US$5.5 million
of the loan proceeds has been cancelled at the request of the
Borrower since it could not be utilized for project related expendi-
tures.  Since the Bank can accept disbursement applications up to a
period of 3 months after the Closing Date, and since the Borrower
expects that the undisbursed balance will be fully utilized by
December 31, 1980, it was agreed that no further extension of the
Closing Date would be necessary.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. However, postponement of the
Closing Date tc December 31, 1981 is being considered because
of lagging disbursements. The agreed targets for connection
of low income households have been widely exceeded. Substantial
improvements in the management of the project companies have been
achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control and planning
of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1980.  Improvements i-n the implementation of
certain components observed since mid-1979 have generally been
maintained, but other areas (nutrition research, policy studies,
and training) continue to fall short of expectations. A Bank
mission recently appraised reformulation of the project and is
preparing recommendations designed to reaLlocate funds to com-
ponents which are better placed to utilize them effectively.



- 39 --
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 60% complete. The Closing Date was postponed
to September 30, 1982.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
began only in 1979. However, the existence of competing credit
lines at subsidized rates and Government's policy of prefixing
monetary correction unrelated to the actual inflation rate have so
far rendered the balance of this loan unusable on the conditions set
out in the Loan Agreement. The Government has recently expressed
the intention to follow a revised monetary correction system where
the level of indexing would more nearly reflect the level of infla-
tion and which will be more in line with the conditions of the Loan
Agreement. Discussions are underway with the Government on ways in
which new commitments under the loan might proceed.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is about 80% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
Loan disbursements are progressing close to appraisal forecast.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily
and close to schedule after initial delays. Mainly as a result of
administrative difficulties, participation in this project by
landless producers was initially significantly lower than originally
envisaged, but concerted efforts by the state government and the
participating banks have improved this situation markedly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: flovenber 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months. Commercial production is now expected tn hogin in
September 1981.  The anticipated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget estimate.



- 40 -
A18NZX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 30, 1981. The project has been physically completed, and
the facilities are being tested and commissioned. The Closing
Date has been postponed to March 30, 1981 to allow for successful
completion of trial runs before final payments can be made on
certain equipment and service contracts.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of certain training centers is proceeding well, but
the hotel training component continues to encounter implementation
difficulties. In view of expected cost savings, the Bank is
presently processing amendments to the Legal documents to reallocate
funds within the SEITAI, SENAC, and SENAR component to accomplish
more than originally planned.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project in general is proceeding satisfac-
torily although local funding delays have been a recurring problem.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and land purchase has now started for the
first group of 450 farmers. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortage of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project is well advanced, and is expected to be completed in
accordance with the appraisal targets.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8,_1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the last 18 months, the situation has
recently begun to show signs of marked improvement. Project admin-
istration has been reorganized, agricultural services are being
emphasized, and slow-starting components, such as land titling,
are beginning to show some initial results.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.  Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Regarding Part A of the project (CEMIG) the
last supervision mission found that delay in project execution
was now also due to financial difficulties which originated in
low tariff levels that gave CEMIG a 7.9% rate of return on remu-
nerable investment instead of the minimum of 10% allowed by Brazilian
legislation. All the available funds were channelled to the
Emborcacao hydro project which is considered CEMIG's first priority
in the construction program and current expectations are for a
2-year delay in project completion. Parts B and C (CELESC and
ESCELSA) have similar problems, and project completion is expected
to be delayed two years.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Reconstruction of highways foreseen under the project is proceeding
satisfactorily. There have been delays in the delegation of
highway maintenance responsibilities to the states, because of
staffing problems in the state highway departments resulting from
low salary scales, and because the states will not accept respon-
sibility for federal highways until they have been rehabilitated.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in June 1982, about six months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.
1563      IJrban Transport Project:  UJS$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date:  September 1, 1978; Closins  Date:  December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress has
varied widely among the five cities invoUred.  The Porto Alegre sub-
project is the furthest advanced.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 millior. loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Clo,ing Date: June 30, 1984.
The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely with
state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project implementa-
tion. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and
project execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1980.  Early
local funding (delays appear to have been resolved. The Closing
Date has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984,
in part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of
incremental staffing, followships for staff training, and use
of consultants.  Overall, project activities appear to be pro-
ceeding reasonably well. Although import: restrictions are expected
to have an effect, the incremental staffing controls do not apply
at the state level where project recruiting is mainly operative.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0) million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
After promising first year results, particularly in agricultural
extension and credit, project activities were seriously disrupted
in mid-1979 with a change in the state government and subsequent
dismissal of numerous project-funded staff.  Restaffing has now
been practically completed, and improved support of the Project
Unit by the state government has increased its authority and
effectiveness. However, several components including the land
purchase component are still in the early stages of implementation.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  TJS$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Rousing targets are being met.
Difficulties are being encountered in meeting the sites and ser-
vices targets, the National Housing Bank is preparing a proposal
that will offer a solution.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. The National Mousing Bank has approved the five year
investment program of the project water companies for the period
1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have also been
approved and construction is underway.  However, because of initial
difficulties, the project may be completed1 with about a one-year
delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$48.0 millioni loan of lIarch 7, 1979;
Effective Date:  August 6, 1979; Closing Date:   July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily with some minor delays.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
Loan No.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date:  February 5, 1980; ClosinDate:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services have come very close
to first year targets. An action plan has been agreed to seek
solutions to very slow implementation of the colonization com-
ponent.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after a slow start due
to the change in Government.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borroxwer postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period has been longer
than expected, in part due to initial delays in the release of
counterpart funds and in the development of a strong project
coordination unit. Implementation is, however, now underway for
most components.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. An acceleration of disbursements should result
from contracts signed for the construction of irrigation and
drainage networks in three flood plain areas. The recent reor-
ganization of the CODEVASF regional directorate has placed a
young, competent team in charge of protection, irrigation and
drainage works. There is a continuing need, however, to strengthen
CODEVASF's capacity to supervise assistance provided by various
state and federal agencies, and to follow-up on the implementation
of the rice drying, storage and processing component.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Sub-projects have been approved which will benefit two states
in the Northeast, Pernambuco and Ceara. Eighteen other sub-project
applications have been received by the National Development Bank
(BNDE). The feasibility studies for six of these sub-projects
are at an advanced stage of preparation.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 14
Loan No.
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date:  October 8, 1980;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.  The project is proceeding satis-
factorily.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
ELETRIC POWER SYSTEM COORDINATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  approximately 35 months
(from August 1976 to
June 1979)
(b)  Project prepared by:              ELETROBRAS (with the assistance
of consultants)
(c)  First presentation to the Bank: June 1978
(d) First Bank mission to consider
the project:                      May 1979
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission: September 1979
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:       June 1980
(g) Planned Deadline for
Effectiveness:                    March 31, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  CHESF to maintain its earnings (including transfers frrrr the Global
Guarantee Fund) at levels consistent with sound financial and public
utility practices and in accordance with existing JegislItion; and
to maintain its eligibility under norms prescriTed byv nNAFE for
transfers from the GGF; Federal Government to enalbhl  CUESF to obtain
a return from revenues (together with transfers fruo- t1he GGF, if
required) of at least 10% on its remunerable investr-1nf (para. 42);
(b) ELETROBRAS tQ afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views regarding long-term planning for the developiiwtit of thy
electric power sector, to continue improving its pl_nin;i7 metrio-
dology, and to complement the long-terrm planning studie2 prelpared
in connection wtith Loan No. 1538-BR (para. 45);



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) The Federal Government and ELETROBRAS to afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to comment prior to making any changes
in sector organization which would affect the configuration of
SINSC, and not to implement any such changes which would substan-
tially and adversely affect the operation of SINSC (para. 64);
(d) ELETROBRAS and CHESF to take all necessary action to ensure
timely completion of the northeast telecommunications network
required for SINSC (para. 66);
(e) ELETROBRAS to provide, in the event funds available to CHESF
are insufficient, all funds which may be required to carry out
its portion of the project (para. 69);
(f)  Federal Government to make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
for the provision of funds to carry out the project, in the
event that the funds available to ELETROBRAS and/or CHESF (includ-
ing in the case of CHESF the funds provided by ELETROBRAS), are
insufficient (para. 69);
(g) CHESF not to incur any debt without the Bank's concurrence if
maximum future debt service coverage is less than 1.5 times net
revenues for the previous twelve months (para. 58);
(h)  ELETROBRAS to furnish to the Bank, by June 30, 1981, a training
program acceptable to the Bank for the operation and maintenance
of SINSC (para. 71);
(i)  ELETROBRAS to furnish to the Bank, by June 30, 1981 feasibility
studies for the implementation of the COSs of CEEE, CESP, FUPJNAS,
and Itaipu Binacional, and to ensure that the entire SINSC program
is completed in accordance with appropriate engineering, financial
and public utility practices (para. 63); and
(j) ELETROBRAS to set up a panel of specialists to monitor and
advise on aspects of implementation of SINSC (para. 72).



V E N E Z U E, L A
G LI YANA
URIKAME              NA/
COIOMBIA                                                                                       UIA
B.. V ola,
M.
-- - ---------- -
N,                                                                                                     o
Ix-
S
Io                                                    Fo,t.1...
Tele-.                     M0
L
61 ISIE'ANCA
E.                                                                                                                       AEARIIA           R-1.
'O
OTb I  fq       ,QA.ei6
Ri. B,.-                                                                                                                                          ...T. I
J
17
PERU
8    L I      A
BRAZIL                                                                                      "d
NATIONAL ELECTRIC  POWER                                                                                       -1 >l          S. DA D VISA
PERVISORY ANO COORDINATION SYSTEM
MA" TRANSMISSION LtNES
T U M, 0 1 AR, 1 El§PICAgAl ARIAS
ik OPIERATAOW                                 J,,                      I
------  345 KV                                         !Q
44t) KV
t,
500 KV                                   fC.,,". C-d.            AGUA   MEL                    ESTRIITO
0     1SOLTE,.R
JUPIA
500 KV
'au"                                               y     ILKA
ARAGUA  GRAINID
123                                                                                                                                           Ri. de J..ewo
600 KV                                                                                                V,.j. ANGRA DOS IZEIS
750 KV                                                                             C.                                A
POWER PLANTS                                                  osor
L
IN OPEkATION.
PIRINCIPAI, SUBSTATIONS             AR
0 L t
OPERATION CENTERS
CO- I"d.,                                                                         Aleg,
(COS ls
F.,,A CC'S
S
U U,UAY                                        )k



