r -VCIAZ        LOAN NUMBER 1939 BR
Guarantee Agreement
(Electric Power System
Coordination Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated      a2      a,     /         , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1939 BR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     c            /44        , 1981, between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF   RAZIL (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Centrais El"tricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS
(hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to fifty-four
million dollars ($54,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and the Borrower and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and Companhia Hidro El6trica do S5o
Francisco (hereinafter called CHESF), but only on condition that
the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower
in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower, and to undertake the
obligations hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27,1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the


﻿-2-
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor spe-
cifically undertakes whenever there is reasonable cause to be-
lieve that the funds available to the Borrower and CHESF or
either of them, will be inadequate to meet the estimated expendi-
tures required for carrying out their respective Parts of the
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly
to cause the Borrower or CHESF, as the case may be, to be provided
with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-3-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
divisi6n thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any. institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its agencies to take, any action
which would prevent or interfere with the performance by the
Borrower or CHESF of their respective obligations contained in
the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable
action necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower and CHESF
to perform such obligations.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Guarantor shall: (i) cause
the agency or agencies of the Guarantor responsible for the set-
ting and adjustment of CHESF's rates for the sale of electricity
and for transfer of funds from the Global Guarantee Fund to act
in respect of any application of CHESF (1) for the setting and
adjustment of such rates within a period of not more than 30 days
after receipt of such application, and (2) for any such transfer
of funds at such time as may be required to supplement the reve-
nues of CHESF provided that CHESF complies with the Guarantor's
requirements therefor; and (ii) take, or cause to be taken, upon
request all reasonable action required for the prompt issuance
to the Borrower and CHESF of such import and other permits and
licenses as shall be necessary for the acquisition and importation
of goods and services required for the carrying out of the Project
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan and Project
Agreement.
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section: (i) the Guarantor shall cause the


﻿-4-
Bank to be informed of any proposed change in the organization of
the Guarantor's electric power sector affecting the configuration
of SINSC, sufficiently in advance of the time a final decision on
such proposed change is to be made, to afford the Bank a reason-
able opportunity to comment thereon; and (ii) the Guarantor shall
not take, or cause or permit any of its agencies to take, any
action in respect of a reorganization of the Guarantor's electric
power sector which shall materially and adversely affect the
carrying out of the Project or the carrying out of the SINSC
Program.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Edificio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministgrios
Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFAZ                            NR 31442
Brasilia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By    A/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  Ji      day of, 198          .
FOR SECRETARY


