Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7596-NA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Development Policy Loan in Support of the 
First Education and Training Sector Improvement Program) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 17, 2010 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7596-NA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated September 17, 2010, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
NAMIBIA (“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).   
 
The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of (a) the actions 
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section IA 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate  
macro-economic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of seven million five hundred thousand Dollars 
(US$7,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 
sixty days after the Effective Date. 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in 
 
Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  3
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.07 (a) of this Agreement and unless 
otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of the 
Conversion Guidelines, any amount withdrawn from the Loan Account shall be 
converted from Dollars to South African Rand for the full maturity of such amount with 
effect from the Conversion Date. Each such Conversion shall be carried out on such 
terms and conditions as may be separately agreed by the Bank and the Borrower. 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this 
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action 
Page  4
3
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Bor
rower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance  
Fiscus Building 
John Meinert Street 
Private Bag 13295 
Windhoek 
Namibia 
 
Tel: 
     Facsimile: 
 
264-61-2099111    264-61-227702 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Windhoek, Namibia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA 
 
By /s/ C.H.G. Schlettwein 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Ruth Kagia 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the
Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Borrower under the 
 
Program include the following:
 
1. 
Tertiary pre-entry programs in mathematics, science and information, 
 
communications and technologies enrolling 50 students per area has commenced 
 
as reflected in the memorandum issued by the Permanent Secretary of MOE to  
 
the Director of Higher Education of the same ministry, on May 22, 20008. 
2. 
The revised lower primary curriculum and start of implementation in schools has 
 
been approved by NEACB as reflected in the Minutes of the 3
rd
.
Meeting of the 
 
NEACB held on October 28, 2007. 
3. The 
text
 book policy has been approved by the Borrower’s Cabinet as reflected 
 
in the letter from the Permanent Secretary of MOE to the Under-Secretary of 
 
Formal Education of MOE on June 19, 2008 stating that Cabinet by 
 
decision 5
th
/18.03.08/002 approved the national text policy for primary and 
 
secondary schools.  
4. 
MOE has assigned academic performance targets to each primary and secondary 
 
school as reflected in the circular issued by the Permanent Secretary of MOE to 
 
the Regional Directors of Education on February 13, 2008 on implementing the 
 
instrument to set performance targets. 
5. 
The baseline data to enable the establishment of a school register of needs (SRN) 
 
has been completed by MOE as reflected in the memorandum issued by the 
 
Permanent Secretary of MOE to the Director of Planning and Development of the 
 
same ministry, on February 15, 2008. 
6. 
A new formula for determining applicable levels of subsidies to private 
 
schools has been approved by Cabinet as September 16, 2008, 
 
decision 17th/16.09.08/010, and reflected in the memorandum issued by the| 
 
Permanent Secretary of MOE on September 29, 2008.  
7. 
Teacher salary increments have been de-linked by the Borrower’s Office of the 
 
Prime Minister from unnecessary and irrelevant qualifications and linked to 
 
performance as reflected in the collective agreement between MOE and the 
 
Namibia national teachers’ union on appropriate appointment requirements for 
 
teachers, dated March 13, 2006. 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
Page  7
6
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The 
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated 
(expressed in dollars) 
Single Tranche 
7,500,000 
C. Payment 
of 
Front-end 
Fee. 
 
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until 
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
t
his account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures.
 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on April 15, 2011.
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
”Tranche of the Loan” means the amount of the Loan specified in Section 2.01 (a) of this 
Agreement. 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party; 
Page  10
9
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
4. 
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education. 
5. 
“
NEACB” means the National Examination, Assessment and Certification Board 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Education Act No.16 of 2001. 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated September 23, 2008 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
7. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled  
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is 
modified to read as follows:  
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee and 
Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of 
the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association (“Preparation Advance”), 
the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or 
after the Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to 
Page  11
10 
 
pay all accrued and
 
unpaid charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank 
shall pay the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and 
shall cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
Page  12
11 
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”  
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows: 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan Agreement 
and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
9. 
Paragraph 20 of the Appendix to the General Conditions is modified to read as follows:  
 
“20. ‘Conversion Date’ means, for a Conversion, the Payment Date (or, in the case of a 
Currency Conversion of an unwithdrawn Loan Balance, such other date as the Bank shall 
determine) on which the Conversion enters into effect, as further specified in the 
Conversion Guidelines; provided that in respect of a Conversion into the Approved 
Currency under Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement, the Conversion Date shall be the 
date of withdrawal from the Loan Account of the amount in respect of which the 
Conversion has been requested.” 
10. 
Paragraph 89(c) of the Appendix to the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows:
 
“(c) upon a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency of an amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance that accrues interest at a variable rate during the Conversion 
Period, the variable rate of interest applicable to such amount shall be equal to either: (i) 
the sum of: (A) LIBOR, or such other base rate as may be agreed by the Borrower and 
the Bank , for the Approved Currency; plus (B) the spread to LIBOR or to such other 
base rate , if any, payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to 
said Currency Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate component of the Screen Rate.”
 
