Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2792 
Operation Name 
Fourth Punjab Education Development Policy Credit (PEDPC IV) 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General education sector (70%);Sub-national government 
administration (30%) 
Project ID 
P101243 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION, GOVERNMENT OF 
PUNJAB 
Date PID Prepared 
January 11, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 26, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 19, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The proposed Punjab Education Sector Development Policy Credit (PEDPC) for US $100 million 
would be the first of a series of three development policy credits to support the Government of 
Punjab’s continuing Education Sector Reform Program (PESRP) which is now in its second phase of 
implementation.  The Government embarked upon an education sector reform program in 2003 that 
encompassed fiscal and fiduciary reforms, and sector reforms that focused on increasing access to 
and quality of basic education.  The first phase of PESRP was supported by a programmatic series of 
three Sector Development Policy Credits (DPCs). PESRP has had a nation-wide impact. It has 
provided valuable lessons, and paved the way for similar reforms in other provinces of the country. 
 
Phase II PESRP builds on the lessons learned during implementation of the past three years.  It 
carries forward the successful ongoing program interventions, and deepens the reform agenda.  The 
Government has developed a medium term framework for the next phase of education reforms. It is 
maintaining the programs initiated under Phase I, and is extending coverage from primary to 
secondary education, complemented by deeper fiscal and fiduciary reforms.  This proposed fourth 
credit, the first in a new DPC series, is expected to be approved in FY2007.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The objectives of the Phase II PESRP are to improve performance, student learning outcomes and 
quality at education (especially primary and elementary); improve school participation, retention and 
transition rates, and reduce gender and regional disparities (grades 1-10).   
By providing continued financing for the Government’s medium term sector reforms, this proposed 
operation will assist the province in increasing access to and improving quality of education from 
primary to secondary levels. It will contribute to Pakistan’s goal of moving closer to meeting the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) related to achievement of universal primary enrollment, 
improvements in primary completion rates, and improvements in gender parity. This proposed credit 
will contribute to improving student learning outcomes by focusing on quality of teaching and 
school performance. It will assist Government in the establishment of systems to undertake 
evaluations to measure the impact of the program interventions on learning outcomes.  
3. Preliminary 
description 
Page  2
Following are the three pillars of the Government’s reform program, to be supported by the proposed 
IDA credit:   
 
·
(A) 
Improve  fiscal sustainability and improve the fiduciary environment
 to: (i)  ensure that 
public expenditure continues to be increased and effectively used for education at both provincial 
and district levels; (ii)  strengthen the districts’ financing capacity and ensure that adequate 
resources are transferred to districts to meet education needs; (iii) increase transparency of 
financial management and procurement processes and practices, and (iv) strengthen provincial 
and district capacities to monitor financial flows.  
·
(B) 
Increase equitable access to education and improve quality and relevance of education
.
This 
forms the core reform agenda.  Access agenda will focus on programs to: (i) reduce the high drop 
outs at pre-primary and primary level, especially for girls; (ii) strengthen the elementary and 
secondary sector levels; and (iii) encourage the participation of private sector.  The quality 
agenda will seek to: (i) improve school performance and student learning outcomes; and (ii) 
improve quality of learning through better teaching practices,  better textbooks and  examination 
system.  
·
(C) 
Improve public education sector governance and management
 to: (i) strengthen the sector 
planning and policy development capacity of the provincial education department; (ii) strengthen 
capacity of district education departments to improve service delivery; (iii) strengthen 
monitoring and evaluation; and (iv) enhance school based management and monitoring of school 
performance by communities. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
The program is environmentally benign, and will not have significant effects on the environment, 
natural resources, or forests.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 850 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
100 
 Total 
950 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Tahseen Sayed 
Title: Lead Education Specialist 
Tel: 5722+166 
Fax:  92-51-9090156; 2822396 
Email: TSayed@worldbank.org 
Location: Islamabad, Pakistan (IBRD)
 
