Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6655-AZ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED REHABILITATION CREDIT
OF SDR 41.6 MILLION
TO THE
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
JULY 26, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(until August 24, 1993)
Currency Unit = Ruble
I Ruble = 100 Kopecks
(after August 24, 1993)
Currency Unit = Manat
I Manat = I Gepik
EXCHANGE RATE
(Manats per US$)
1993 (average)       92.6
1994 (average)    1,456.9
1994, December 31 4,168.0
1995, July 17     4,465.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC                    Antimonopoly Committee
ANB                    Azerbaijan National Bank
CEM                    Country Economic Memorandum
CIS                    Commonwealth of Independent States
CG                     Consultative Group
CPI                    Consumer Price Index
DFI                    Direct Foreign Investment
DOD                    Debt Outstanding and Disbursed
ECU                    European Currency Unit
EF                     Employment Fund
EU                     European Union
FSU                    Former Soviet Union
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
GNP                    Gross National Product
GRIFs                  Government Reserve Investment Funds
IBRD                   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                    International Competitive Bidding
IDA                    International Development Association
IFC                    International Finance Corporation
IMF                    International Monetary Fund
MIGA                   Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOF                    Ministry of Finance
PIU                    Project Implementation Unit
PPP                    Purchasing Power Parity
SOCAR                  State Oil Company of Azerbaijan
SOEs                   State Owned Enterprises
SPC                    State Property Committee
STF                    Structural Transformation Facility
UNHCR                  United Nations High Commission for the Refugees
VAT                    Value Added Tax
GOVERNMENT - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED REHABILITATION CREDIT
TO THE AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
Contents
Credit and Program  Summary  ........................................... i
I.    Introduction and Background  .......................................  1
II.   Economic Trends and Prospects  .....................................  3
A. Recent Economic Developments ................................  3
B. Prospects for the Medium Term  ................................  5
III. The Economic Reform Program .....................                                                  7
A. The Macroeconomic Stabilization Program for 1995  ...................  7
B. Structural Reforms  ........................................  8
1. Privatization  ..........................................  9
2. Corporate Governance and Enterprise Restructuring  ................. 10
3. Private Sector Development  ................................ 12
4. Financial Sector Reform  ................................... 13
5. Procompetition and Antimonopoly Policies ....................... 14
6. Price Liberalization ...................................... 15
7. Trade Liberalization  ..................................... 17
8. Social Protection  ....................................... 19
IV.  The Proposed Credit ............................................ 22
A. Description of the Credit  .................................... 22
B. Relationship to the Country Assistance Strategy and Project Rationale  ...          ..... 22
C. Policy Conditionality and Prior Actions  ........................... 23
D. Project Management, Financial Reporting and Implementation Arrangements   .... 25
E. Procurement  ............................................ 25
F. Benefits and Risks ......................................... 26
G. Recommendation  ......................................... 27
ANNEXES:
Annex 1: Letter and "Memorandum on Economic Reform Policies"
Annex 2: Structural Economic Reforms Policy Matrix
Annex 3: Key Economic Indicators
Annex 4: Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex 5: Timetable for Key Processing Steps
Tlhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official dutics. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wi.hout World Bank authorization.



I
I



AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
Rehabilitation Credit
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Azerbaijan
Amount:                SDR 41.6 million
Terms:                 IDA terms, with 35 years maturity
Implementing Agency:   National Bank of Azerbaijan
Objectives:            The objective of the credit is to support the Government's program of
economic stabilization and structural reform. Emphasis is placed upon
reform of the enterprise sector, including privatization, enterprise
restructuring and corporate governance, private sector development, pro-
competition and anti-monopoly policies, and the banking sector. Actions in
these areas will be complemented by further liberalization of price and
trade policies and by strengthening the system of social protection.
Description:           The proposed credit is expected to disburse over a period of 9 to 10
months. Foreign exchange will be disbursed against evidence of eligible
imports. This foreign exchange will be sold in the auction market,
generating local currency resources which will serve as non-inflationary
financing for the budget as well as helping to finance additional imports
needed by the economy.
Benefits:              The proposed Credit will be instrumental in assisting the Government in the
implementation of market-oriented reforms. The Credit would help sustain
minimum import capacity during the period of transition. With the
necessary external financial assistance and policy support over the next few
years, and assuming the essentially political problems related to expanding
petroleum exports are resolved without prolonged delays, it should be
possible for Azerbaijan to progress rapidly from a fairly poor (IDA-
eligible) country in serious economic difficulties to a prosperous and
rapidly growing middle-income country.
Risks:                 Main risks are: (i) a continuing delay in resolving transportation
bottlenecks which hinder the development of Azerbaijan's natural resource
potential; (ii) policy slippage; and (iii) failure to mobilize enough official
assistance to support the reform effort.
Poverty Category:      Not applicable
Rate of Return:        Not applicable
Map:                   IBRD 23696R
Project ID Number:     P-6655 AZ
-i1-






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED REHABILITATION CREDIT
TO THE AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
Rehabilitation Credit to the Republic of Azerbaijan for the equivalent of SDR 41.6 million
(US$65 million) to support the Government's structural reform program. Azerbaijan is undertaking an
ambitious program of economic reform. Agreement has been reached with the Fund on a Systemic
Transformation Facility program (which was approved by the IMF Board on April 19). Although starting
its reform program later than most other FSU republics, Azerbaijan has made impressive progress in
recent months, particularly regarding price, subsidy and trade policies. Fiscal and monetary policy are
tight and the rate of inflation has declined dramatically. The proposed Credit will help initiate and
accelerate reform in the areas of privatization, enterprise governance and restructuring, private sector
development and antimonopoly policies.
2.    The proposed Credit is fully consistent with the limited CAS that was approved by the Board on
April 20, 1995, in the context of the Petroleum Technical Assistance Project. An Economic Report No.
11792-AZ, entitled "Azerbaijan Country Economic Memorandum - From Crisis to Sustained Growth,"
was distributed to the Board on July 9, 1993.
1. Background
3.    Azerbaijan is one of the oldest oil producing regions in the world. In addition to oil, the country
is well-endowed with various natural resources, including fertile agricultural land, a diversified industrial
structure, and a well-educated labor force. However, in addition to the problems it shares with other
FSU republics, its transition to a market economy has been complicated by regional conflicts. As a result
of the conflict that began in 1989, nearly 20 percent of the national territory is under the control of
occupation forces and about 900,000 people (out of a total population of 7.5 million) are refugees or
internally displaced persons.
4.    Since independence, Azerbaijan has experienced several changes in government and considerable
political instability. On October 6, 1994, following an armed rebellion in Ganja, the President dismissed
the Prime Minister, accusing him of masterminding a coup attempt, appointed an acting Prime Minister
and reshuffled the cabinet. Since subduing the October 1994 uprising, the President has appeared to be
in firmer control of the country and the government apparatus. In March 1995 a Deputy Interior Minister
led another coup attempt, but it was quickly crushed.
5.    Unprecedented shocks to the economy, stemming from dislocations in trade links among the
Former Soviet Union (FSU) Republics and the impact of the conflict with Armenia with its ensuing
refugee problems, have resulted in a continuous decline in output, high inflation, and significant erosion
of real wages. Severance of transport links to Azerbaijan's traditional markets since September 1994 (as
a result of fighting in Chechnya) has compounded the deterioration in external trade and intensified output
contraction.



-2-
6.     The political instability and fragile security condition have not provided an environment conducive
to resolving the serious economic challenges confronting the country. Nevertheless, the Government has
taken a number of important steps to liberalize the economy and promote transition to a market economy.
A new national currency, the manat, was introduced in August 1993. Most prices have been liberalized,
some financial sector reforms have been initiated, and a buoyant and rapidly expanding private sector has
emerged in retail trading activities. A more appropriate legal and institutional framework to support these
reforms is being developed.
7.    In light of recently improved prospects for a peaceful settlement of the Armenian conflict, the
Government is now better placed and more determined to design and implement a coherent economic
reform program. Indicative of this is the agreement with the IMF on a "Statement of Economic Policies"
that supports the STF drawing. Another indication of the Government's new determination is the
appointment early in 1995 of a Deputy Prime Minister to take responsibility for acceleration of the
privatization program. The accompanying "Memorandum on Economic Reform Policies" (see Annex 1),
provides good evidence of the desire of key policymakers to implement a serious structural reform
program.
8.     The economic reform program's success will depend among other things upon the Government's
ability to strengthen its limited institutional and implementation capacity and on the availability of
adequate amounts of external financial and technical assistance. Azerbaijan will have difficulty in
achieving increased creditworthiness and access to market borrowing without the development of its
offshore oil deposits in the Caspian sea. In September 1994 a contract was signed with a consortium of
international oil companies for a $7.5 billion program to expand oil production. However, substantial
uncertainties surround the development of Azerbaijan's petroleum resources because of unresolved issues
regarding development rights to Caspian Sea resources and access to pipeline routes for this land locked
country.  First, Russia declared its non-recognition of the contract, taking the position that the
exploitation of Caspian Sea resources was governed by treaties signed in 1921 and 1940. Second, an
export pipeline route must be negotiated and established to allow access to international markets. The
contract with the international oil consortium does not include agreements on a pipeline route, although
it calls for its construction within four and half years. Third, oil exports will develop only gradually and
will not yield significantly increased export earnings for several years.  The first phase of the
development, lasting about two years, will merely help to offset and reverse the current decline in oil
production. Beyond this phase, the anticipated benefits from increases in oil production are contingent
upon the completion of the oil export pipeline. Thus, the proposed petroleum development is not likely
to yield major benefits to Azerbaijan until after the year 2000. In the interim, Azerbaijan faces the
multiple tasks of structural reform, financial stabilization, and economic recovery during a period when
its oil production and exports are still declining. The need for IDA assistance is expected to be
temporary.  However, until the present uncertainties regarding the development of the country's
petroleum potential are removed, Azerbaijan's creditworthiness is limited. Per capita GNP is now below
the "IDA cut-off" level. And, until the expansion in petroleum output becomes a reality, recovery is
expected to be slow.



-3-
II. Economic Trends and Prospects
A.    Recent Economic Developments
9.     Trends in Output. Azerbaijan's GDP began to decline in 1989; by the end of 1993, GDP was
half its 1989 level. Further output compression in 1994 resulted from reduced oil production, the
continued decline in interrepublican trade, the aftermath of the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh, and
transport problems as a result of developments in Chechnya. GDP in 1994 is estimated to have declined
by a further 22 percent from the 1993 level (to about 40 percent of the 1989 level). Although the official
figures on output may fail to include some informal sector activities, when comparisons are made with
other FSU republics, there is no doubt that the declines in output and income have been particularly
severe in Azerbaijan. The extent of the recent declines varied from sector to sector. The largest
contraction occurred in the construction sector, followed by transport and communications activities. In
the industrial sector, production in many industries plummeted sharply as they lost access to either inputs
or markets. In the agriculture sector, production of nearly all commodities continued to decline, and state
and collective farms and state-owned agricultural processing enterprises found themselves in a financial
crisis.
10.    Fiscal and Monetary Developments. The consolidated general government budget (which includes
the Republican budget and local and regional budgets) deteriorated significantly during 1993 and 1994.
This was due to military expenditures related to the Karabakh conflict, the burden of refugees, the
contraction in tax revenues as a consequence of declining output of the formal sector, and to the inability
of the tax administration to capture emerging private sector activities.  The bread subsidy was
significantly reduced in 1994 and totally eliminated early in 1995. The consolidated general government
accounts had registered a deficit of 14.6 percent of GDP in 1993. In 1994, pressures on the budget
increased as a result of mounting expenditures on refugees, the building-up of the armed forces,
widespread tax exemptions, and tax collection difficulties. The budget deficit as a percent of GDP
remained at about 14 percent and was fully financed by the central bank (Azerbaijan National Bank or
ANB). In sharp contrast to 1993 and 1994, the fiscal program aims at reducing this deficit to less than
5 percent of GDP in 1995. Data available for the first half of 1995 indicate that this fiscal program is
being seriously implemented.
11.   The combination of an increase in the central bank's refinance rate to 250 percent in January 1995
and a decline in the monthly inflation rates, has resulted in interest rates which are positive in real terms.
The introduction of credit auctions is helping to maintain an environment of positive real interest rates.
There was a substantial depreciation of the currency, in real as well as nominal terms, during 1994.
However, since December 1994 the exchange rate has been nearly stable in nominal terms and strongly
appreciating in real terms.
12.    During 1994, the share of foreign exchange denominated transactions increased substantially.
The share of foreign currency deposits in total deposits increased from 30 percent at the beginning of
1994 to 80 percent by the end of December 1994. Although the foreign deposit liabilities were largely
offset by loans in foreign exchange balances, the banks also kept considerable foreign exchange balances.
Two main reasons accounted for the large expansion of foreign exchange deposits. Firstly, with the
manat depreciating during the year, holdings of foreign exchange deposits were more profitable.
Secondly, as payment orders on enterprises were not charged to the enterprises' foreign exchange
accounts, many enterprises kept their deposits in the form of foreign exchange deposits in order to avoid



-4-
payment of tax arrears, of arrears to banks, and for interenterprise transactions. The government has
addressed the latter problem by a decree which permits payment orders on enterprises to be charged to
their foreign exchange accounts as well as to their manat settlement accounts. The general tendency
toward "dollarization" of the economy in 1994 is being reversed in 1995 by the combination of the
appreciation of the real exchange rate and the positive real interest rates which are now available for
manat savings deposits.
13.   Trade and Payments. The balance of trade (merchandise FOB, including estimates of unrecorded
imports in 1993) changed from a deficit of US$99 million in 1993 to a deficit of US$177 million in 1994.
In value terms, imports were almost unchanged while exports fell from US$718 to US$637 million. The
decline in exports earnings reflects the US$95 million fall in exports of a variety of manufactured goods
to CIS trading partners. This decline reflects a number of factors in addition to the closing of the rail
link with Russia in the latter part of the year. These included continuing problems of interrepublican
payments, the further reduction in the levels of economic activity in the CIS, and also a general tendency
to redirect trade to the non-CIS area. Although imports were almost unchanged in value terms, there was
a large decline in volume.  The cost of natural gas imports from Turkmenistan increased from
US$80 million in 1993 to US$230 million in 1994 as a result of higher prices. This increase in the cost
of natural gas imports was offset by a decline in the volume of other imports.
14.   The current account deficit was US$179 million in 1994. The major capital account inflows
during the year were net government medium- and long-term borrowing of US$49 million, arrears
(largely for natural gas imports) of US$81 million, and direct foreign investments estimated at US$20
million.  The commercial banks increased their net foreign assets by US$8 million and official
international reserves rose by US$2 million. Errors and omissions of US$39 million provide the
additional inflows that balance the accounts. Gross official international reserves at the end of the year
were insignificant (US$3 million).
15.   Prices and Wages. Inflation rates accelerated in 1994, but have declined dramatically in the first
half of 1995. Measured in terms of the change in the CPI from the same month of the previous year,
the inflation rate rose from about 1300 percent in December 1993 to 1800 percent in December 1994.
But by June 1995 the annual rate of inflation had fallen to little more than 600 percent. (The CPI actually
recorded a slight decline in June, but the strong influence of seasonal factors make the comparison with
the same month of the previous year a better indicator than the monthly rates.) This reduction in the
inflation rate reflects the change in monetary and fiscal policy, and also other factors which have affected
both the velocity of money and the exchange rate. During 1994, while the CPI was increasing by 1800
percent, the increase in the money supply was only 925 percent. The marked increase in velocity during
1994 seems to have reflected the increased uncertainty and instability during the year, as well as the
shortages of many goods (particularly in the fourth quarter following the interruption of the normal
transport routes through Chechnya). Because of the heavy weight of imported goods in the CPI, the
trends in the nominal exchange have also had a major influence on this measure of inflation. Several
factors have contributed to the relative stability of the nominal exchange rate (and thus to the relative
stability of the CPI) in the first half of 1995. These include the tight monetary and fiscal stance, the
inflow of foreign exchange from petroleum consortium "signature bonus" payments, and the reversal of
the earlier tendencies toward increasing "dollarization" (that was both a cause and an effect of the
stronger manat). The manat has traded between 4,450 and 4,500 manats/US$ during recent months,
which is only about 5 percent above the average for December 1994. By contrast, even with the lower
rates of inflation, the CPI in June was 63 percent above December's level.



-5-
16.   Real wages have fallen dramatically in recent years. By October 1994, reported average monthly
wages, when expressed in constant 1993 prices, were only 39 percent of their October 1993 level. The
combination of the decline in real wages in manats, and the increasing depreciation of the manat, had by
October 1994, reduced reported average monthly wages to less than US$7. The decline reflected a
variety of factors, including sharing the burden of contracting employment through declining real wages
for all workers rather than open unemployment for a limited number, and also the tight liquidity situation
of enterprises, which has forced them to limit payments of all kinds. The minimum wage has fallen even
more rapidly than the average wage. The minimum wage is not linked to any measure of "subsistence
income", but is important mainly because some social benefits and salaries are fixed in terms of the
minimum wage.
B.    Prospects for the Medium Term
17.   Azerbaijan's medium-term prospects are greatly enhanced by the country's petroleum resources
and by its potentially strong private sector. However, the country also faces very serious constraints, and
it is unlikely to regain even the per capita private consumption levels of 1993 before 2002. The pace of
development of Azerbaijan's petroleum resources is the major variable in the country's medium-term
economic outlook. Until World War II, Azerbaijan supplied most of the Soviet Union's requirements
for oil. Since then, its oil production has been steadily dropping as a result of depletion of its existing
fields. On September 20, 1994, the country signed a US$ 7.5 billion contract agreement with a
consortium of foreign oil companies to develop offshore oil deposits of Guneshli, Chirag and Azeri fields
in the Caspian sea. However, given the continuing decline in production from the existing fields,
Azerbaijan is likely to become a petroleum importer before the benefits of the expansion program are
realized. The country's prospects for economic development depend heavily upon the successful
implementation of this contract.
18.   Carrying out the program to expand petroleum output is complicated by Russian claims regarding
the petroleum resources under the Caspian Sea and by the need to agree on the location of, and to build,
a new pipeline to bring the increased output to international markets. If these geopolitical difficulties
cannot be overcome, Azerbaijan's medium-term economic prospects would be significantly diminished.
However, given the potential benefits to all concerned, it is expected that these difficulties will be
overcome, but with some delay from the technically feasible schedule for expanding output. We have
made our medium-term economic and financial projections on the basis of what now seems a realistic
assumption, that of a two-year delay. In this case, Azerbaijan would not get significant benefits from
increased oil production until after 2000. Total export earnings are projected to increase from less than
US$900 million in 2000 to over US$2.5 billion three years later. These figures should be compared with
petroleum product exports of about US$200 million and total exports of less than US$700 million in
1994.
19.   Once the oil expansion takes place, Azerbaijan will be in a relatively favorable balance of
payments position. But, until then, the authorities will have to manage simultaneously both the problems
of transition to a market economy and, for several years, continuing declines in the country's traditionally
most important export. Balance of payments problems can be avoided only (i) if Azerbaijan is able to
expand non-oil exports and maintain careful management of external borrowing, and (ii) if official lenders
are able to respond to the country's needs for external assistance during the next several years. A
substantial build-up of debt and debt service is to be expected during this period. However, the
projections suggest that the debt service ratio should level off at about 35 percent in 1998-1999 and
decline substantially (as exports increase) in the following years. The debt/exports ration would reach



-6-
330 percent in 198-1999, but would be expected to have dropped below 125 percent by 2003. The
debt/GDP ratio would peak in the year 2000 at about 60 percent. Assuming a reasonable portion of
external assistance is made available on concessional terms, the interest/GDP ratio should peak at 3.4
percent in 2001. After reaching the indicated peaks, all of these debt burden indicators would be
stationary or declining. Once the oil expansion program is well underway, most of Azerbaijan's external
financing requirements would be met by equity investments rather than by loans. After the year 2000,
the stock of direct foreign investment is expected to exceed the stock of external debt.
20.    Despite its petroleum  resources, in some ways Azerbaijan is beginning from  a very difficult
position. Even more than the larger FSU republics, when it was part of the Soviet Union Azerbaijan's
economy had been specialized and dependent upon links with the rest of the FSU. For this reason, the
collapse of output within, and of trade between, the FSU republics has been especially damaging for
Azerbaijan. As the country integrates with the world economy, a major restructuring of both the
industrial and agricultural sectors will be required. Given its petroleum resources and the entrepreneurial
spirit of its private sector, Azerbaijan has a very substantial economic potential for the longer term. But
it clearly faces serious problems for the near and medium term.
21.    External Financing Reguirements in 1995 and 1996.  The accompanying table summarizes
Azerbaijan's balance of payments financing requirements for 1995 and also provides a preliminary
estimate of the expected requirements for 1996. The financing requirement is the total needed to cover
the non-interest current account deficit, interest payments (plus any other factor income payments), debt
amortization, regularization of arrears, and increases in gross foreign exchange reserves. The possible
sources to meet these needs include direct foreign investments (including oil consortium bonus payments),
expected disbursements from loans committed in prior years, drawings under agreements with the IMF,
disbursements from the proposed IDA Rehabilitation Credit, and disbursements from new loan
commitments including the regularization of existing arrears.
Azerbaiian: External Financing Requirements (in millions of US$)
Estimated 1995    Preliminary 1996
Total Financing Needs:
Non-interest current account deficit  $198.0        $247.0
Interest payments (net)               11.0            36.0
Amortization of existing loans        58.0           75.0
Reduction in arrears                  81.0            --
Increase in gross reserves           115.0           80.0
Total needs                   $463.0           $438.0
Total Financing Sources:
Direct foreign investments           $93.0           $21.0
Disbursements from loan pipeline     128.0            88.0
Net borrowing by commercial banks     15.0            --
Disbursements from new commitments    227.0          329.0
IDA Rehabilitation Credit         33.0            --
IMF STF drawings                  82.0            --
Conversion of arrears             60.0            --
Other sources                     51.0
Total sources                       $463.0          $438.0
Source: IMF and Bank Staff Estimates



-7-
22.   The estimated external financing requirement in 1995 is US$463 million. The relatively large
increase in gross foreign exchange reserves reflects the fact that reserves were nearly exhausted at the
end of 1994. Even with the projected increase, gross reserves would only reach about 1.7 months
imports by the end of 1995. Assuming the proposed Rehabilitation Credit disburses half in 1995 and half
in 1996, the requirements for 1995 should be comfortably fulfilled. This is because Azerbaijan's recent
decision to sell half of its 20 percent interest in the oil consortium is expected to provide an additional
US$83 million in bonus payments, which will be more than adequate to cover the required inflow from
"other sources" in 1995. This is in addition to the US$60 million oil bonus payments received early in
the year (which are included in the estimated inflow from foreign investments). While the reduction of
arrears contributes US$81 million to the requirement, it has contributed US$60 million to the solution
since agreement has been reached to convert these arrears into a four-year loan.
23.   The preliminary estimates for 1996 indicate that the balance of payments situation will be
considerably more difficult next year. Thus, it is essential that as much as possible of the "second"
US$83 million oil consortium bonus be added to reserves and kept to meet both BOP and budgetary needs
in 1996. Even with some decline in imports (accompanying the projected further decline in the level of
economic activity), the expected drop in oil production and exports will result in an increase in the
current account deficit. The non-interest current account deficit is expected to increase by US$49 million,
while debt service will rise by US$42 million. However, there should be no further need to convert
arrears to debt and the target increase in gross international reserves is somewhat lower. Nonetheless,
disbursements from financing which had not yet been committed as of June 1995 will have to reach about
US$329 million to meet the expected needs. A somewhat greater than presently assumed inflow of
resources from members of the oil consortium could meet part of this need. The IMF may consider a
Stand-By Arrangement towards the end of 1995 which could be converted into an ESAF. Assuming that
the Government continues an adequate and effective effort to implement economic reforms, the Bank
Group might consider a structural adjustment operation in the second half of the calendar year (in addition
to disbursing the balance of the Rehabilitation Credit in the first part of the calendar year). Fulfillment
of the financing requirements in 1996, however, is likely to require a significant contribution from
bilateral donors as well as continuing support from the international financial institutions.
III. The Economic Reform Program
A.    The Macroeconomic Stabilization Program for 1995
24.   The Government considers a combination of rapid price stabilization, restoration of external
balance, and accelerated structural reform, as the only viable route to stability and growth. The
authorities have agreed with the IMF on a tight macroeconomic program for 1995, with monthly inflation
targets of 5 percent and 2 percent, respectively, for July and December. The program also calls for
increasing the central bank's gross external reserves to about seven weeks of imports, and places limits
on the accumulation of non-concessional debt.
25.   High inflation in 1994 partly reflected ongoing price liberalization and the effects of exchange
rate depreciation, but the ultimate source was continued rapid expansion of banking system credit to the
budget and to troubled state enterprises and agriculture. With the removal of the bread subsidy and the
increases in petroleum product prices, price liberalization has been largely completed. The only
important exceptions to this are the socially sensitive areas of housing, housing utilities, and public



-8-                                  ANNEX 1
33.  Many steps are being taken to promote competition. In addition to price and trade liberalization
(including the abolition of state orders), and the measures discussed above to put the private sector on
an equal footing with the SOEs, we intend to abolish the system of state supply of materials and
equipment. Supply offices will be privatized into a network of competing suppliers. The state privatization
program will include demonopolization measures which will ensure the breakup of monopolies (including
administrative monopolies in commerce, storage and truck transportation) in the course of corporatization
and privatization. In the agriculture sector competition will be facilitated by the development of
commodity markets and encouraging the activities of private traders. In the farm and agroprocessing
sector, we will actively promote competition during the corporatization and privatization process,
including discouraging the vertical integration and cross-ownership of the farms and agroprocessing
enterprises, which would limit freedom of entry and competition. In this regard, as in some other areas,
the Government will submit to Parliarnent any necessary amendments to earlier legislation that are needed
to make the legislation consistent with the Privatization Program.
34.  The prevention of the abuse of monopoly power will form an integral part of our policy effort in
creating a competitive market environment. To carry out our policies in this area, we plan to propose
amendments to existing antimonopoly legislation which will provide a legal basis for the State Committee
on Antimonopoly Policy to investigate and seek remedies for the abuse of monopoly power. We do not
have a "list" cr "register" of monopoly enterprises which makes these enterprises subject to price and
profit margin controls. We also intend to draft and submit to Parliament the Law on Natural Monopolies
which will provide a legal framework for the regulation of public utilities and natural monopolies. Further
legislation will be introduced on mergers, acquisitions and holding companies.
Price Liberalization
35.   Completing the liberalization of prices and price controls is an essential part of our structural
reform program. Until recently the prices of energy, bread, public transport, utilities and rents had been
largely exempted from price liberalization. However, these economic policies were not effective in
preventing poverty or restoring economic growth. Therefore we have now adopted a policy of targeted
cash compensation to vulnerable groups (non-working pensioners, students, and children). By delinking
social protection from price controls, we are opening the way to a market-driven reallocation of
productive resources.
36. We have raised, in a step-wise fashion, the prices of crude oil, oil products and gas; the prices of
most petroleum products are now at, and in some cases above, world market levels. Following the
decontrol of meat, butter and sugar in 1993, we liberalized the bread prices in February 1995. The
associated budgetary subsidies for grain imports at a preferred exchange rate were removed at the same
time. As a result of our actions, budgetary and implicit subsidies, estimated at 6.7 percent of GDP in
1993, have been eliminated. Instead, cash compensation payments were introduced that are estimated at
2.7 percent of GDP in 1995. Regarding public transport, we already have cut subsidies by half (to 0.7
percent of GDP) in the 1995 budget. In 1996 we intend to remove all operating cost subsidies while
providing cash compensation to low-income workers.
37.   We abolished state orders in January 1995, and now require state purchasing agencies to offer
prevailing market prices. Competitive markets will be developed as rapidly as is feasible. The effective
monopsony position of state procurement agencies will be removed with their break-up and privatization,
and by the free entry for new competitors. We recognize the important role of commodity exchanges in
establishing market prices in a transparent manner. Therefore we have decided to support private
initiatives to that end, and by the end of 1995 we will complete preparation of draft regulations and
legislation for the establishment and operation of conmmodity exchanges. Regarding procurement of goods



-9-                                  ANNEX 1
for the state's own needs, purchases in the national market are now done through a competitive bidding
process; purchases in the international market are managed by a Committee for Foreign Economic
Relations.
Trade Liberalization
38.  As a small, natural-resource based economy, Azerbaijan is heavily dependent on external trade.
The collapse of payment relations between the FSU republics left us with little choice but to participate
in bilateral agreements mostly based on barter. This involved continuing the use of state orders to meet
the State's export delivery obligations. However, with the continuing adjustment of prices within the FSU
to world market levels, the scope for such agreements is being progressively reduced. Between 1993 and
1994 the share of imports under such agreements declined from 78 percent to 30 percent, and the share
of exports from 66 percent to 23 percent. Preliminary figures for the first quarter of 1995 indicate a
further steep decline in their importance. Since January 1995 the Government is procuring the supplies
necessary to fulfill any remaining delivery obligations by purchases at market prices.
39.   Major steps have already been taken to liberalize trade and exchange relations with non-FSU
countries. We have unified the exchange rate and thus removed the implicit export taxes and import
subsidies associated with differential surrender requirements and foreign exchange allocations. The unified
rate applies to both current and capital transactions, without restrictions on bona fide current transactions
by residents and on repatriation of earnings (after domestic taxes) and of capital by non-residents. Also,
explicit export taxes on the differential between world prices and controlled domestic prices are
disappearing in line with price liberalization, and will be eliminated by the start of 1996. We intend to
eliminate all the remaining export tariffs during this year. From the beginning of 1996 all exports are
to be free of quotas and license requirements.
40.  Imports are free of quantitative restrictions (except for armaments and drugs) and we will abstain
from measures such as prohibitions, quotas and licensing requirements. Import tariffs have in the past
covered only a small part of imports (about 9 percent in 1994), but have ranged between 1 percent and
70 percent ad valorem. Our reform objective in this regard is to achieve a modest contribution to the
budget from import tariff revenues (not more than the 1.4 percent of GDP in the 1995 budget agreed with
the IMF) while reducing the distortive effect of tariff variations. As a temporary measure, we have put
into effect a new tariff schedule that raises the import coverage of tariffs to 18 percent and eliminates
nearly all ad valorem tariff rates in excess of 25 percent. However, the schedule also introduced specific
tariffs with an import coverage of about 4 percent. These apply mainly to luxury goods. We intend to
put in place a permanent new tariff schedule by the end of 1995. For this, we are considering replacing
specific tariffs with excise taxes, and bringing all tariff rates into the 1 - 20 percent ad valorem range.
Azerbaijan intends to join the World Trade Organization (WTO) and meet the normal requirements for
membership.
Social Protection
41.   The system of social protection which Azerbaijan inherited from the Soviet Union is in part
incompatible with the requirements of a market economy, particularly insofar as it relies on price controls
and guaranteed employment. The lack of targeting in social assistance, furthermore, is undermining our
ability to secure adequate minimum benefit levels for population groups most at risk. These include
children, students, non-working pensioners, the unemployed, and displaced persons. Our efforts at social
protection reform concentrate on cash compensations associated with price liberalization, the financing
of adequate minimum pensions and unemployment benefits, and additional assistance to citizens displaced
from areas occupied by foreign forces.



-10-
initiated. As currently envisaged, social assets of enterprises will be allowed to be privatized either as
part of the enterprise, or be privatized separately, or to be transferred to local authorities. Under the
mass privatization program, the stocks of enterprises being offered for vouchers will be distributed as
follows: (i) 50 percent to the general public through voucher auctions, (ii) up to 15 percent to be sold to
existing employees (for vouchers), (iii) up to 10 percent for open sale through cash auctions or to
strategic investors including foreigners, and (4) 25 percent to be retained by the state in closed investment
funds. The shares of medium enterprises not taken by employees may be offered first at cash auctions,
or may be offered for vouchers, or for both in some combination at the SPC's discretion. The legislative
and regulatory framework is to be established for privately managed investment funds (as distinct from
the state investment funds which will hold stock which belongs to the Government).  It is the
Government's intention to allow full participation by foreign investors in the privatization process,
including the acquisition of secure rights to occupy land associated with the purchase of enterprises.
2.     Corporate Governance and Enterprise Restructuring
36.    The Government recognizes that many of the state-owned enterprises will require significant
restructuring and many of them will need to be liquidated. In addition to proceeding as rapidly as
possible with privatization of the majority of state-owned enterprises, the Government will develop and
implement a comprehensive program to encourage and facilitate enterprise restructuring. This program
is still being designed, but is expected to include the following elements: (i) reducing and eliminating as
quickly as possible government financial transfers to cover operating losses of enterprises and imposing
strict financial discipline on them, (ii) improving the lending policies of the state-owned commercial banks
and limiting the access of loss-making SOEs to credit from the state-owned banks, (iii) enforcing
bankruptcy and improving payments discipline of enterprises, (iv) isolating the largest loss-making
enterprises from the banking system and speeding up their restructuring, down-sizing and possibly
liquidation, and (v) improving corporate governance of enterprises which will remain in the state-owned
sector either temporarily (i.e., until privatization) or for the foreseeable future. The "isolation exercise"
is expected to focus on the larger loss-making enterprises whose economic and social importance is such
that government intervention seems inevitable; one aim of the intervention will be to carry out a
restructuring that will make unnecessary any continuing transfers to cover operating deficits.
37.   Imposing financial discipline on enterprises. The Government recognizes the urgent need to
impose strict financial discipline on enterprises. For this purpose, the Government has already taken a
number of measures. Direct budget subsidies to enterprises including those in the bread complex were
eliminated in the 1995 central government budget approved by the Parliament in February, 1995. In
addition, tax legislation was revised with the 1995 budget to eliminate the exemptions and privileges in
profit and value-added taxation for state-owned enterprises. State investment in state-owned enterprises
(e.g, public utilities) is to be rationalized and included in the budget as part of its public investment
program. A Bankruptcy Law was approved in July 1994 by the Parliament; to improve financial
discipline the Government intends to vigorously enforce this law.
38.   Improving the lending policies of the state-owned commercial banks and limiting the access of
loss-making SOEs to credit of state-owned banks. The Government realizes that financial discipline on
the SOEs cannot be tightened without changes in the lending policies of the state-owned commercial
banks. Enterprise restructuring and the reform of the state-owned commercial banks must be addressed
simultaneously because these banks are the major creditors of the SOEs and the claims on the SOEs,
especially the larger ones, dominate the asset portfolio of the banks. The measures discussed below
regarding financial sector reform will contribute to improving the financial discipline on SOEs. Before



-11-
a comprehensive program of restructuring and privatization of the state-owned commercial banks can be
carried out, the Government intends to introduce a number of interim measures. One of these is that the
Government, as the majority owner, will instruct the state-owned commercial banks to improve their
lending policies and to limit the access of loss-making SOEs to additional credit. As discussed below,
in the future, large loss-making SOEs will be isolated from the commercial banking system; beginning
in 1996, any transfers they require in connection with their restructuring or liquidation will be provided
through the budget rather than added to the portfolio problems of the commercial banks.
39.    Enforcing bankruptcy and improving pavments discipline. Enterprise arrears, including those to
the other enterprises, to banks and to the Government, continue to be a serious problem.  The
Government recognizes the excessive accumulation of enterprise arrears is largely a symptom of the lack
of enterprise adjustment and the ultimate solution lies in changing the behavior of enterprises. The
excessive and rapid accumulation of enterprise arrears not only hinders enterprise adjustment, but also
threatens the banking system and reduces government revenue. As a first step to discourage the further
accumulation of enterprise arrears, the Government recently adopted regulations which will force
enterprises holding foreign exchange deposits to use them to pay off their arrears. To coordinate its
policies in this area, the Government established in April 1995 the State Commission on the Stabilization
of the Financial Situation in the Republic Economy. The Government has indicated that it will strictly
adhere to a policy of not engaging in any "clearance of arrears" involving credit expansion or budgetary
resources. If necessary, amendments or new legislation will be introduced to further reduce the
transactions costs for creditors to take legal actions against their debtors.
40.    Isolating the largest loss-making enterprises and speeding up their restructuring and liquidation.
While most of the enterprises, either private or state-owned, should obtain their financing from the
banking system, the financing needs of the largest loss-making enterprises cannot and should not be met
by the commercial banks. If a sound commercial bank system is to be developed, the largest state-owned
loss-making enterprises should be isolated from the banking system. Most of the SOE sector has so far
not adjusted significantly to changes in the market environment and many inefficient enterprises have
continued to operate, assisted in part by financing in the form of accumulated arrears.  With the
deepening of price and trade liberalization, and the further tightening of financial discipline, the number
of enterprises in serious financial difficulties may increase further. The Government is currently
preparing a strategy for restructuring. It is the belief and intention of the Government that most loss-
making enterprises, especially the small and medium-sized ones, should be liquidated quickly. The
Government will make it clear to the enterprises that, if privatized, no government subsidies will be
provided. For some of the largest loss makers, where it may not be possible to close them down
immediately or where some of them can become viable with passive restructuring, the Government
intends to isolate them from the banking system and a government agency will be assigned or created to
take charge of their restructuring. However, large new investments ("active" restructuring) would not
be financed as part of this "isolation exercise." Any continued government transfers to these enterprises
to cover operating losses will be conditioned strictly on the passive restructuring of the recipients (e.g.,
labor shedding, closure of plants or production lines) or targeted for specific purposes such as the costs
of operating social assets not yet divested to municipal authorities. In the case of public utilities needing
transfers because of administrative regulation of their tariffs, the authorities have indicated their intention
to raise tariffs to cover 100 percent of operating costs by the start of 1996.
41.    Improving corMorate governance.  The Government further recognizes that improvements in
corporate governance of both SOEs which will be privatized and those that will remain, at least for some
time, in the public sector, are essential for enforcing financial discipline and improve and sustain their



-12-
performance. As a first step, a law on joint stock companies was adopted by the Parliament in July,
1994.  Recognizing the importance of proper reporting and disclosure of financial information in
improving corporate governance of enterprises, the Government has submitted to the Parliament a new
accounting law establishing internationally accepted accounting standards. The Government also intends
to present to the Parliament a new Company Law. As part of its privatization program, the Government
will corporatize all SOEs (with the exception of some defense and solely budget-financed non-commnercial
enterprises). In the interval before privatization, one or more government agencies will be designated
to represent the state's interest as owner. As an initial step to improve their performance, the policy and
regulatory functions will be separated from the actual operation and management of public utilities and
natural monopolies. The Government also intends to submit to the Parliament by the end of 1995
legislation on the regulation of public utilities and natural monopolies.
3.     Private Sector Development
42.    Private sector development is an integral part of the Government's economic transformation
strategy. Given the inefficiencies and precarious financial difficulties in the state-owned enterprises, the
rapid development of the private sector is essential for arresting the sharp decline in the economy and for
the resumption of economic growth. The development of the private sector will also help absorb the
redundant labor currently maintained on the payrolls of the SOEs, which is likely to become openly
unemployed as a result of privatization and enterprise restructuring, thus softening the impact of the
transition on the population. In addition, a well-functioning private sector will create the much needed
competition to the state-owned sector.
43.    The Government realizes that the development of the private sector in Azerbaijan has been
constrained not only by the general political and economic difficulties in the country, but also by the slow
pace of privatization, the unequal access to credit and real estate for private enterprises, and by the lack
of a conducive legal and regulatory framework. To actively promote private sector development, the
Government has already taken a number of initial measures. To increase the resources available to
private enterprises, the Government has already taken, or intends to take, a number of measures which
are discussed below as part of financial sector reform.
44.    On the legal front, the Law on Collateral and the Law on Mortgages have both been adopted by
Parliament. Until now, access to commercial real estate has been very limited for the private sector,
mainly because most commercial real estate has been in the hands of state-owned enterprises. As
indicated earlier, it is the Government's intention to privatize most small enterprises as soon as possible
and complete the small-scale privatization by the end of 1996.  During the privatization and
corporatization process, state-owned enterprises will be encouraged to spin off real estate and other assets.
In February 1995, the national Parliament adopted two laws on agriculture reforms, which provide the
legal framework for land privatization and private farming. New legislation and amendments to existing
legislation will be introduced which will allow the free transfer and mortgaging of residential and
commercial real estate. The Government will set up a proper system of titling , property registration and
cadastre arrangements by the end of 1995.
45.    The Government recognizes that the current system of registration and regulation is cumbersome
and represents a serious obstacle to the rapid development of private enterprises. The goal of the
Government is to create a simplified and streamlined registration system for new businesses and to
establish a simple and transparent regulatory framework. To achieve this, the Government is undertaking
a comprehensive review of the current regulatory framework for private sector development. Based on



-13-
the findings, a major deregulation initiative will be launched to remove the barriers to entry and establish
simple, open procedures for registration with a minimum of special licensing.
4.    Financial Sector Reform
46.   The legal framework for a two-tier banking system in Azerbaijan was established in 1992. The
National Bank of Azerbaijan has since made significant progress toward functioning as a modern Central
Bank. The Government recognizes that development of a healthy commercial banking sector needs to
be accelerated to serve the emerging private sector and support the privatization and restructuring of state
enterprises.
47.   The commercial banking sector is dominated by four specialized state banks. Prominvest Bank
and Agroprom Bank take deposits and lend to, respectively, industrial and agricultural enterprises.
Amanat Bank takes household deposits and lends on the interbank market; and International Bank handles
international transactions for the government and state enterprises. In the past the state banks have been
favored by policies that limit competition from private commercial banks, including preferred allocation
of ANB refinance credit, automatic overdraft facilities at NA, lower reserve requirements for Amanat
Bank, and a June 1994 decree directing state enterprises to bring their banking business back to state
banks. Also, legislation was passed giving Amanat Bank tax free status for three years.
48.   The number of private commercial banks mushroomed after 1992 as the law on banks and
banking activity established only low entry requirements. The number of banks had increased to 220 by
August 1994, when increased minimum capital requirements stopped new entries. Mergers and closures
reduced the number to 192 by April 1995. Many private commercial banks were originally established
by state enterprises for the purpose of channelling resources from NA and the interbank market to the
owners. State enterprises later withdrew from ownership, partly because of the private banks' restricted
access to refinance credit. As a result, these banks have now become largely privately owned. Private
banks provide trade financing to the emerging private sector, but most of them are too small to supply
the financial services and credit that enterprises will need soon after privatization. In early 1995 they
were providing no more than 10-12 percent of total credit to enterprises and individuals.  The
Government recognizes the need for fostering consolidation in the private banking system as a
requirement for them to develop an appropriate funding base and acquire a higher quality of banking
skills.
49.   The Government already has taken steps to level the playing field for private and state banks.
Prominvest's and Agroprom's automatic overdraft facility at NA was terminated in December 1994.
In March 1995 reserve requirements for all banks were unified at 12 percent. Also, credit auctions were
started in March. As a temporary measure to prevent domination of the credit auctions by state banks,
separate refinance credit limits were set for Prominvest and Agroprom, with the cost of refinancing
credits to the state banks being based upon the rates determined in the auction market. Initially, 25
percent of the total refinance credit allowable under the monetary program was reserved for auction to
the participating private banks. Beginning in July 1995 all refinancing and credit is being provided
through the credit auction market. Furthermore, Amanat Bank (the state savings bank) will be required
to supply up to 50 percent of its increase in deposits to the credit auction, thus providing private banks
access to the savings mobilized by Amanat Bank's extensive branch network. At the moment, however,
Amanat Bank's deposit base is shrinking and, in order to maintain liquidity, this bank has turned to
borrowing from ANB.



-14-
50.   The ANB monitors the financial position of banks wishing to participate in the credit auctions,
so as to prevent participation by insolvent banks. Monitoring relates to past performance and compliance
with minimum capital requirements, the minimum capital risk-weighted asset ratio, maximum total
liabilities to capital ratio, minimum liquidity requirements, maximum exposure to a single borrower, and
minimum reserve requirements. Only twelve private banks proved eligible for participation in the first
auction and even fewer in the second auction. Other banks will soon find themselves under strong
pressure to merge with participating banks or go out of business.
51.   The authorities are using increased minimum capital requirements as an additional instrument to
force more rapid consolidation. For new banking licenses the minimum capital requirement has been
increased to the equivalent of US$500,000, effectively stopping the issuance of any new licenses. For
existing banks, the minimum is intended to increase gradually to the equivalent of $50,000 by the end
of 1995. ANB is committed to force any banks failing to meet the scheduled increases to merge with
another bank or to revoke their banking license.
52.   The Government is aware that the financial position of state commercial banks is weak given their
portfolio of bad debt. The Government plans for diagnostic studies of these banks to be completed as
quickly as possible. A program of restructuring, privatization or sale in part or as a whole will be
initiated as soon as the diagnostic studies are completed. The recently approved Institution Building
Technical Assistance credit from IDA will finance the necessary diagnostic studies. The Government is
taking interim measures to stabilize the financial condition of the banking system. While the refinance
rate is being based on the result of credit auctions, banks are free to set their own lending rates to
enterprises. Also, managers of state banks are being instructed to deny lending to SOEs with persistent
arrears to banks. The ANB is aware that its supervision function requires improvements in the area of
asset classification and provisioning for bad and doubtful debt. The authorities are committed to issue
rules in the course of 1995; and require all state and private banks to introduce asset classification
procedures and make provisions based on this classification. The "isolation exercise" discussed earlier
(see paragraph 40) should be of help in resolving the bad portfolio problems of the commercial banks.
5.    Procompetition and Antimonopoly Policies
53.   The creation of a competitive market environment is essential for the success of enterprise reform
and the development of the private sector. The Government recognizes that this is an area in which
government policy can play an active role but that the emphasis of government intervention will need to
be changed significantly in the market environment. To redefine its role in this area, the Government
intends to focus its policy on two equally important aspects: promoting competition and preventing and
punishing the abuse of monopoly power.
54.   Promoting competition. In addition to price and trade liberalization (including the abolition of
state orders), and the measures discussed above to put the private sector on an equal footing with the
SOEs, the Government has indicated its intention to abolish the system of state sApply of materials and
equipment.  Supply offices will be privatized into a network of competing suppliers; purchasing
enterprises will be free to buy from any sources. In its privatization program the Government will
include de-monopolization measures which will ensure the breakup of monopolies (including
administrative monopolies in commerce, storage and truck transportation) in the course of corporatization
and privatization.  In the agriculture sector competition will be facilitated by the development of
commodity markets and encouraging the activities of private traders. In the farm and agroprocessing
sector, the Government will actively promote competition during the corporatization and privatization



-15-
process, including discouraging the vertical integration and cross-ownership of the farms and
agroprocessing enterprises, which would limit the freedom of entry and competition.
55.   Preventing the abuse of monopoly power. The prevention of the abuse of monopoly power will
form an integral part of the Government's policy effort in creating a competitive market environment.
To carry out the Government's policies in this area, the role of State Committee on Anti-monopoly Policy
and the Support for Entrepreneurship will be changed from emphasis upon ex ante regulation of prices
and profit margins to the prevention and the ex post remedies for the abuse of monopoly power. The
Government has already abandoned the use of the "Register of Monopoly Enterprises" for price and profit
margin control. It is the Government's intention to propose amendments to the existing anti-monopoly
legislation which will provide the legal basis for the State Committee to investigate, and to seek judicial
remedies for, the abuse of monopoly power. The Government further intends to draft and submit to
Parliament the Law on Natural Monopolies to provide a legal framework for the regulation of public
utilities and natural monopolies. Further legislation will be introduced on mergers, acquisitions and
holding companies.
6.    Price Liberalization
56.   Price liberalization in Azerbaijan have been held up by concerns for poverty and loss of output.
The authorities have been slow to delink social protection from prices for main household expenditure
items and create conditions for rapid, market-driven reallocation of productive resources, instead relying
on selective price controls and trade interventions. Recognizing the failure of these policies, the
Government has recently accelerated price and trade liberalization in line with social safety net measures
and policies toward privatization, enterprise restructuring and private sector development.
57.    Price Liberalization and Removal of Consumer Subsidies.  In January 1992, at the time when
prices were being liberalized throughout the FSU, the Azerbaijan authorities retained price controls on
energy, major food products, public transport, utilities and rents. They also continued the system of state
orders for agricultural commodities (notably grains, milk, grapes, cotton and tobacco). The massive
subsidies to energy users, households, and processing industries this involved were only partly recognized
through explicit budget provisions for food suppliers (bread, meat, butter and sugar), transport services
and utilities. Others, of course, were reflected in revenues foregone, subsidies implicit in grain and
natural gas imports at preferred exchange rates, Central Bank credit to agriculture and arrears to the
budget and between enterprises.
58.   The authorities began delinking price policies from support for poor households in 1993.
Specifically, bread prices were raised in real terms, price controls on meat, butter and sugar removed,
and budgetary subsidies correspondingly reduced or eliminated. At the same time cash compensations
were introduced for non-working pensioners, students and children. This opened the way for a further
substantive bread price alignment in 1994, followed by the removal of bread price controls and budgetary
subsidies in February 1995. Also, implicit bread subsidies through compulsory grain procurement and
imports at a preferred exchange rate were in principle eliminated at the beginning of the year. However,
the removal of implicit subsidies was (as of early June) still to be reflected in the bread price; the State
Bread Concern was continuing to calculate the wholesale price on the basis of historic purchase prices
of wheat, rather than replacement costs. As wheat stocks are replenished by imports and domestic
procurement of the new harvest at competitive prices, bread prices will need to increase to avoid new
budgetary subsidies.



-16-
59.    Once bread prices are at "full cost" or market rates, food price liberalization will have removed
explicit and implicit subsidies estimated at 6.7 percent of GDP in 1993. The past general subsidies are,
however, being partially replaced by targeted assistance to the more needy members of the population.
Such cash compensation payments are estimated at about 2.7 percent of GDP in the budget for 1995.
(Measures to improve the targeting of cash compensation are discussed below in the section on "Social
Protection".) The impact on bread prices of the planned break-up and privatization of the State Bread
Concern is difficult to predict. On one side, increased competition is likely to reduce inefficiencies and
generous "profitability" margins at the milling, bakery and retail stages; on the other side, private
operators will need to be more realistic in their assessment of depreciation and replacement costs. Given
the link between bread prices and cash compensations, the Government intends to monitor closely wheat
supplies and seek to avoid spikes in replacement costs due to supply interruptions.
60.    The authorities allowed public transport tariffs to fall significantly behind cost inflation in 1994,
raising budgetary subsidies from 0.3 percent of GDP in 1993 to 1.4 percent in 1994. Subsequent tariff
increases, however, are expected to lower subsidies to half this level in 1995. The Government has
indicated its intention to eliminate operating cost subsidies for public transportation and other utilities by
the start of 1996.
61.    As of April 1, 1995, crude oil prices were raised to two-thirds of world market levels, most
petroleum product prices were increased to close to world market levels (adjusted for transport costs),
and natural gas prices were sufficient to cover import costs. In July, during negotiations of this
Rehabilitation Credit, it was agreed that the price of crude oil would be raised to 80 percent of the
presently estimated world parity (adjusted for quality and probable transport costs). However, since
Azerbaijan does not presently export crude oil, it is only the transfer price between the producers and the
refiners that will be directly affected. Regarding refined products, Azerbaijan is currently finding it
difficult to find export markets at its present ex-refinery prices. This is partly because of present bilateral
relationships and transportation problems, but it also seems to reflect commercial factors (such as the
inability to compete with Romanian products in the adjacent Georgian market). It is the present view of
Bank staff that a further upwards adjustment in the crude oil price, and some adjustments in the relative
prices of refined products, are warranted. Gasoline prices may already be above, while fuel oil prices
may be below, the estimated world market parities. The situation is complicated both by the high levels
of inter-enterprise arrears owed to sellers of petroleum products and the uncertainties surrounding
transport to export markets. Consequently it was further agreed that Bank and IMF staff would work
closely with the Azerbaijan authorities to establish more accurately the appropriate international market
parities for both crude oil and oil products in Azerbaijan, and would then agree upon an appropriate
pricing structure which would be implemented by Azerbaijan.
62.    State orders were abolished in January 1995. State purchasing entities are now required to offer
prevailing market prices. Given their effective monopsony position in rural areas, however, the
Government recognizes the need for a transparent mechanism to establish market prices. To that end,
the Government intends to support private efforts at establishing a national commodity exchange.
Necessary legislation and regulation are envisaged to be in place not later than December 1995, and the
exchange is expected to open shortly thereafter. With the abolition of state orders and the privatization
of the system of state supply, there should no longer be a need for a Ministry of Material Resources; any
functions remaining after privatization could be transferred to other government agencies.
63.    The effective liberalization of agricultural prices will result in drastic relative price changes.
Notably, the domestic wheat/corn price ratio for the 1994 harvest was about one tenth of the international



-17-
ratio. This contributed to the use of about half of the wheat production for animal feeding, in turn
rendering the country highly dependent on wheat imports. The wide gap between price ratios suggests
the potential for dramatic shifts in production and trade. This should result in significant efficiency gains,
including improvement in the balance of payments (since more higher priced wheat would be produced
in the country, with lower priced corn being imported as animal feed). For these shifts in production to
occur, however, managers of agricultural collectives must learn to ignore planting instructions which
apparently they are still receiving from rayon officials. It seems to take time for both officials and farm
managers to absorb the implications of the abolition of the state order system and the introduction of
market prices. This seems inevitable until both the infrastructure and the attitudes of a market economy
become better established in Azerbaijan.
7.     Trade Liberalization
64.    A small and natural resource-based economy makes Azerbaijan heavily dependent on external
trade. In the late 1980s, trade (exports plus imports) amounted to about 80 percent of GDP; reflecting
the real depreciation of the manat, this increased to 125 percent in 1994. With countries of the FSU
accounting for some 90 percent of Azerbaijan 's exports in the late 1980s, the breakdown in payment
relations following the dissolution of the Soviet Union became perhaps the most important factor
explaining the decline in output. Payment relations have since improved, but Azerbaijan is heavily
affected by the interruption of its main rail and road transport routes due to the Chechnya conflict.
Alternative routes can only be used at much higher cost. While some commodities were redirected to
non-FSU markets, winning markets for manufactured products will require drastic industrial restructuring.
65.    The collapse of payment relations within the FSU left the authorities little choice but to participate
in bilateral agreements, mostly based on barter. For goods on "obligatory" lists, the authorities typically
secured deliveries through state orders and allocated imported supplies to designated enterprises. For
goods on wider "indicative" lists, export quotas were negotiated that could be filled by enterprise-to-
enterprise deals. Such enterprises also were designated by decree and were exempted from export tariffs
as well as taxes on any differential between their sales prices and controlled domestic prices. The
Government, however, did not provide guarantees that export quotas would in fact be filled. The need
for binding FSU trade agreements declined in 1994, as the prices of more and more goods under delivery
obligations or export quotas came closer to world market prices. Between 1993 and 1994, the share of
imports under such agreements declined from 78 percent to 30 percent, and the share of exports from
66 percent to 23 percent.
66.   Initially the authorities managed non-FSU trade with a view to securing supplies to domestic users
and supporting state enterprises. The main instruments included: (i) multiple exchange rates through a
system of differential surrender requirements for export earnings, and foreign exchange allocations for
imports, at special exchange rates; (ii) export licenses for "strategic" goods, which initially accounted for
80 percent of exports; (iii) an "export tax" of 70 percent on any differential between export prices and
controlled domestic prices; and (iv) export tariffs on a number of raw materials and semi-finished goods
demanded by domestic processing industries, with an export coverage of 54 percent in 1994. Import
tariffs only applied to about 9 percent of imports in 1994. For imports from 55 countries comprising
all major trading partners, ad valorem import tariff rates ranged between 1 percent and 70 percent with
a weighted average of 17 percent. Imports from other countries were subject to twice these rates. With
the manat still highly undervalued, the authorities saw no need for quantitative import restrictions (except
for armaments and medicines) or a wide application of tariffs as protective inistruments.



-18-
67.    More recently, in line with price liberalization and the willingness to accelerate restructuring of
the productive sector, the Government has moved toward trade and exchange liberalization. The stated
purpose is to create a more competitive environment and establish market signals guiding production and
investment decisions. In the first quarter of 1995 the exchange rate was unified and the previous
surrender requirements (at differential exchange rates) were abolished. Temporarily, exporters are
required to sell 30 percent of their foreign exchange earnings in the foreign exchange market, but this
is at the market determined exchange rate. The unified rate applies to both current and capital account
transactions, and the Government purchases and sells foreign exchange for its own purposes at this rate.
Residents are allowed to purchase foreign exchange in the market for all bona fide current transactions.
Non-residents are allowed the same for purposes of repatriating their earnings (after domestic taxes) and
their capital, thus improving the environment for foreign direct investments.  Implicit export taxes
through the multiple exchange rate have been eliminated. The explicit export tax on the differential
between export prices and controlled domestic prices is being abolished in line with price liberalization.
The coverage of export tariffs declined from 54 percent in 1994 to an estimated 4 percent in 1995. The
Government is committed to eliminate the remaining export tariffs not later than end-1995.
68.    On the import side, the Government remains committed to abstain from  any quantitative
restrictions (prohibitions, quotas and license requirements) other than for armaments and drugs. A new
temporary import tariff schedule took effect on May 1, 1995, designed primarily to raise additional
revenue (contributing a projected 1.4 percent of GDP to the budget agreed with the IMF). As depicted
in Table 1, the new schedule expands the import coverage of tariffs from 9 percent to 18 percent of total
imports (by value). The main expansion occurs in the 1-25 percent ad valorem tariff range; all but a few
higher ad valorem rates disappear, resulting in a reduction of the weighted average import tariff from 17
percent to II percent. However, the new schedule also introduces specific tariffs (specified in ECUs per
unit of import volume) with an import coverage of 4 percent. These charges primarily apply to so-called
luxury and sin products (automobiles, spirits and tobacco products) though also to some seasonal goods
(fruits). The Government intends that its new permanent tariff schedule, which is planned for end-1995,
be more in line with the general objective of raising the planned revenue in a non-distortive manner.
Specifically, all tariffs would be in the 1-20 percent ad valorem range. Concerns about luxury and sin
products will be addressed by imposing excise taxes in addition to ad valorem import tariffs so as not to
create incentives for their domestic production.
Table 1. Azerbaijan: Imports Tariffs
ImPort Coverage [%]
Tariffs                       1994         1995
Duty Free                     91           82
Ad Valorem Tariffs
1-25 percent               6           14
30-70 percent              3            0
Specific Tariffs               -            4
All Tariffs                    9           18
Notes: Indicated rates apply to imports from 55 countries including all major trading partners. Imports from other
countries are subject to twice these rates. Import coverage is based upon 1994 import values. Specific tariffs are
expressed in ECUs per unit of import volume. "0" indicates less than 0.5%.



-19-
69.   The scope of bilateral trade agreements was sharply reduced during 1994 with the transfer of most
or all items on obligatory lists to indicative lists. Since January 1995 the state procures any remaining
export delivery obligations at prevailing market prices. While prices remain influenced by the state's
monopsony position, this will be mitigated by the privatization of the state supply offices and their
breakup into competing suppliers and purchasing enterprises, as well as by the encouragement of private
trading. The procedure of designating enterprises for export quotas on indicative lists remains in place,
but the incentive for using the quotas is disappearing with the effective removal of the export tariffs from
which participating enterprises are exempted. Export controls still apply to "strategic" goods, whereas
non-strategic exports are free of quotas and license requirements.  The list of "strategic" goods has been
reduced from 17 to 7 goods, all energy products; with domestic energy prices going to world levels, the
authorities will soon simply abolish the list.
8.    Social Protection
70.   Azerbaijan inherited the Soviet system of social protection concentrated on low administered
prices for main household expenditure items, guaranteed employment, free medical services, child
allowances, and allowances for particular events (funerals, child birth, maternity, sick leave and stay in
sanatoria). The authorities recognize that the system is in many ways incompatible with a market
economy (e.g., reliance on price controls and guaranteed employment). It has failed to prevent the
appearance of poverty during the recession, in good part because the lack of targeting has undermined
the Government's ability to secure adequate minimum benefit levels for those most at risk. Among
pensioners, as an example, about 20 percent draw pension benefits while still earning a wage whereas
about 7 percent depend on social pensions that replace less than 20 percent of the average wage in 1994.
In addition, the country lacks an adequate social assistance system for the about 660,000 persons
displaced by the regional conflict.
71.   Major difficulties in assessing social safety net needs in Azerbaijan include the lack of a well-
defined minimum consumption basket and the inability to assess informal sector incomes on the household
level. The Ministry of Labor and Social Protection is currently working on constructing a "subsistence
basket" based on physiological norms. However, the available data on personal and household income
is seriously inadequate. They generally exclude informal sector incomes (which were estimated at 37
percent of total household incomes in 1994). Thus the use of an income test hardly seems practical. In
the short-term, therefore, the authorities have few choices but to focus attention on easily identifiable
vulnerable groups such as non-working pensioners, families with two or more children, the unemployed,
and displaced persons.
72.   Consumer subsidies and cash compensation. The Government began removing explicit and
implicit food subsidies in line with price liberalization in 1993 and completed this policy with the
elimination of bread subsidies in February 1995. Monthly cash compensation were increased in February
to 7,500 manats for non-working pensioners and students and 5,000 manats for children. This compares
to a retail price of 750 manats per 800 gram loaf of bread in April. Under tight budgetary constraints,
the authorities intend to make room for raising benefit levels by improving targeting of cash
compensations and streamlining family allowances. In particular, virtually all households with children
are eligible for compensation (as a result, in part, of comparatively generous income ceilings which are
adjusted to current wage levels with a lag).  A variety of measures are being considered.  The
Government is considering tightening income testing by updating income quarterly rather than annually.
Eligibility is presently based on a maximum per capita family income of 3 minimum wages, i.e., 12
minimum wages for a family of four. Depending on the emerging minimum wage trend in 1995, the



-20-
authorities will consider reducing the ceiling from 3 to 2 minimum wages per head. They also may
exclude families with only one child. In addition, the authorities are considering abolishing the separate
child allowance (which is subject to a different income test) and using resources to raise cash
compensation levels. At the samne time, they may extend cash compensation benefits to the registered
unemployed. As the privatization of bakeries and flour mills takes place, the authorities will evaluate
the impact on bread prices with a view to adjusting cash compensations.
73.   Regarding transport subsidies, bus tariff increases are expected to reduce budgetary subsidies from
1.4 percent of GDP in 1994 to 0.7 percent of GDP in 1995. The Government hopes to eliminate these
subsidies and introduce cash compensation targeted to low income workers. The policy of free transport
for pensioners and students will need to be reviewed at a later stage.
74.   Pensions. In the area of old age security, the Government is faced with the task of restoring
badly eroded income replacement levels for poor, non-working pensioners, but also to reduce payroll
taxes amounting to 35 percent for employers (25 percent in agriculture) plus 1 percent for workers.
Within the administration, proposals have been drafted to earmark some excise tax revenues for the Social
Protection Fund (SPF), and to reduce payroll taxes for specific groups such as the self-employed and
private employers. Other concerned government officials, however, maintain that general tax revenues
should not be used to finance the pension system, and that any payroll tax reduction should be applied
in a non-distortive manner. These officials hope to finance improvements in benefit levels through
increased tax collections and tighter benefit rules.
75.   The Government is undertaking a study of the finances of the Pension Fund. Among the
measures being considered are: (i) expanding the payroll tax base to include the 14th monthly salary;
(ii) applying positive real rates of interest to contribution arrears, thus restoring the real value of revenues
to SPF; (iii) significantly reducing benefits to working pensioners, possibly by 50 percent; and
(iv) eliminating entitlements for persons below normal retirement age that are based solely on the number
of years worked. Subject to the implementation of these measures, and consistent with the fiscal
program, it might then be possible to raise the minimum pension to about 30 percent of the average wage
(compared with less than 20 percent in 1994). Linking the minimum pension to the average wage could
replace the minimum wage as the index for pension adjustment. It is suggested that the minimum
pension, but not all individual pensions, be indexed in this manner. The benefit schedule therefore would
be compressed further, consistent with the Government's preoccupation with the must vulnerable members
of the conmmunity during the transition. In the light of the study of Pension Fund finances, the
Government is expected to consider a number of other steps to tighten pension entitlements. These
probably will include: reducing special occupational pensions; beginning a gradual increase in the
minimum retirement age (presently 55 years for women and 60 for men, with special pensions starting
as early as age 45 and 50, respectively); and expanding the number of years of indexed earnings taken
into account in the initial benefit calculation. The Government clearly recognizes the urgency of
reforming the Pension Fund and expects to complete its evaluation of Pension Fund finances by the end
of 1995.
76.   Unemployment Benefits. The Azeri authorities established an Employment Fund (EF) in 1991,
recognizing that full employment could not be guaranteed in a market system. Unemployment benefits
would be needed to temporarily replace wage income during job search periods. Without benefits, state
enterprises and ultimately the Government would be under pressure to retain existing jobs, thus blocking
restructuring. In the following years, however, registered unemployment remained very low, averaging
only 21,000 in 1994. Many enterprises apparently choose to retain surplus workers by placing them on



-21-
forced leave, in some cases paying the minimum wage, instead of laying them off. There is also evidence
that sick leave provisions were used to keep workers on the payroll, while shifting the burden of support
to the SPF which finances the sick leave program. As pressure for economic restructuring intensifies and
budget constraints become harder, such practices are expected to become less frequent, and open
unemployment is expected to rise significantly.
77.   In 1994, only 20 percent of the registered unemployed received unemployment benefits. The
average benefit amounted to only 13 percent of the average wage as benefits were fixed on the basis of
the beneficiaries historical income and then allowed to erode quickly with inflation until reaching the floor
established by the minimum wage. The registered unemployed, furthermore, were denied the cash
compensation available to non-working pensioners, students and children, though this would be corrected
with the proposed reform of the cash compensation system (para. 72 above).
78.   The authorities recognize the need for strengthening EF finances ahead of substantial benefit
increases. Employment Fund finances could be strengthened by measures similar to some of those being
considered for the Pension Fund (e.g., expansion of the payroll tax base to include the 14th monthly
salary, and application of positive real interest rates on contribution arrears). In addition, the lag in
payroll tax collections could be eliminated. To make room for higher benefit levels, EF expenditures on
"job creation" have been terminated.
79.   The central measure which is being considered on the benefit side is the adjustment of the
minimum unemployment benefit to the level of the minimum pension (assuming it is going to be increased
to 30 percent of the average wage). Under current policies, the average benefit could fall to less than
6 percent of the average wage (in part as a result of delayed adjustments in the minimum wage). As in
the case of the minimum pension, linking the minimum unemployiiient benefit to the average wage would
end the role of the minimum wage as the index of adjustment of benefits. A particular concern relates
to the possible strong increase in long-term unemployment. The Government is considering concentrating
public works programs on the long-term unemployed. The need for further measures will be studied,
including possibilities for social assistance or lengthening the period of eligibility for unemployment
compensation beyond the present 6 months. The authorities also recognize the need to improve labor
exchange services.
80.   Family and Sickness Allowances. The Social Protection Fund administers an array of allowances
in addition to pensions and cash compensations. The Government intends to streamline the various
benefits some of which are quite small and cause undue administrative expenses. As discussed, child
allowances are expected to be absorbed into the cash compensaticn system. Also, it is proposed that the
Government will shift the cost of the first 3 weeks of sick leave from SPF to enterprises. The purpose
of the shift would be to discourage the use of sick leave provisions as a way of avoiding the discharge
of surplus labor.  Further streamlining will be considered by the authorities. Notably, this includes
adjusting the replacement rate for maternity leave to the same rate as sick leave; eliminating or greatly
reducing the subsidy element of sanatoria vouchers; and eliminating other allowances.
81.   Social Assistance to Refugees and Displaced Persons. Azerbaijan faces the problem of providing
for about 230,000 refugees from Armenia and Central Asia and about 660,000 displaced persons who
have been forced to leave areas of Azerbaijan occupied by foreign forces. The economic position of
displaced persons is more tenuous than that of refugees. The share of persons of working age that were
employed in January 1995, were 31 percent (displaced persons) and 80 percent (refugees). This reflects



-22-
the later arrival of displaced persons and their predomninantly agricultural background, as well as the hope
that they will be able to return to their previous homes.
82.   Refugees and displaced persons receive assistance from the Government and  through UN
agencies and voluntary organizations. The benefits from existing government programs include pensions,
child allowances and cash compensations. Few workers receive unemployment benefits even if reported
as unemployed, but all are supposed to receive a monthly payment equal to one minimum wage. In
addition, refugees and displaced persons qualify for one-time allowances of triple their former monthly
wages, and are eligible for small "loans" without apparent repayment obligations. Despite these efforts,
many displaced persons continue to live in considerable hardships. The status of displaced persons
complicates efforts to lessen their dependence on assistance. However, the Government is considering
encouraging a larger share to register for retraining with the EF, which would improve their prospects
for finding employment.
IV. The Proposed Credit
A.    Description of the Credit
83.   The proposed Rehabilitation Credit would be for SDR41.6 million (equivalent to US$65 million).
The objective of the credit is to support the Government's program of economic stabilization and
structural reforms which have been outlined in Section III above. The credit would provide foreign
exchange, which would be sold in the auction market, to help finance imports needed by the economy.
And it would provide, from the manats generated by the sale of foreign exchange to importers, local
currency resources which will serve as non-inflationary financing for the budget.
84.   The credit is intended to disburse relatively quickly, at a rate of US$6 - US$7 million monthly.
About half should become available during September-December of this year to help support the 1995
financial program. The balance would be available during the first five months of 1996. In order to
provide the desired level of support for the 1995 financial program, up to 20 percent of the credit amount
(SDR 8.3 million) may be used for retroactive financing. Such retroactive financing would be limited
to payments made after May 31, 1995, which is within the four-month period prior to the expected date
of credit sigining. The closing date for the credit will be December 31, 1996.
85.   If the calendar 1995 disbursements from the Rehabilitation Credit take place as now anticipated,
the equivalent of approximately US$33 million would remain available to support the 1996 financial
program. Partly because of the expected further short-tern decline in oil production, Azerbaijan's
external financing requirements in 1996 are likely to be even greater than those in 1995 (see paragraphs
21-23). As indicated in the CAS, if the country continues to implement a strong economic reform
program, an adjustment operation may be appropriate in FY97 (calendar 1996) as part of a coordinated
donor effort.
B.    Relationship to the Country Assistance Strategy and Project Rationale
86.   The proposed credit is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed with
the Board on April 20, 1995. The basic objective of the Association's CAS is to assist Azerbaijan in its
transition to a market economy. The Government has indicated its strong desire and willingness to



-23-
proceed with both financial stabilization and structural reform. The proposed Rehabilitation Credit will
provide resources needed to help sustain and accelerate both economic reform and economic recovery.
The financial program worked out with the IMF establishes ambitious targets for both budgetary and
monetary policy in 1995. This program needs financial support in the form of quick disbursing assistance
from IDA. The authorities have sought the advice and assistance of the World Bank on structural
reforms. The Institution Building Technical Assistance credit, recently approved by the Board, will
provide support in implementing the needed reforms. The situation in Azerbaijan is one which combines
both an urgent need for quick disbursing assistance from the Bank Group and an opportunity to encourage
and reinforce a serious effort at structural reform.
C.    Policy Conditionality and Prior Actions
87.   The policy conditionality, as well as the financial support, in this Rehabilitation Credit will
complement that which is provided under the STF agreement which was approved by the Fund Board on
April 19, 1995. Although some minor revisions have been made in the projected outcomes, as of this
date the implementation of the 1995 program agreed with the Fund is progressing satisfactorily.
88.   The authorities have conveyed to the Bank the "Memorandum on Economic Reform Policies"
which is included in Annex 1 of this President's Report. This Memorandum describes the program which
the Government is implementing. In view of the central importance of the privatization program, the
approval of this program, satisfactory to the Association, is a condition of effectiveness for this credit.
In discussions with the Government beginning early in 1995 it was indicated that a number of specific
measures would be considered as "prior actions" for Board presentation. These prior actions have been
satisfactorily completed. They include the following:
(i)    The Government has completed preparation of the privatization program. The draft
program was reviewed by Bank Group staff and agreement reached on both the
(a) general program and (b) the action plan to implement this program.
(ii)    A Working Group has been established to complete preparation of a government strategy
to resolve the problems of state-owned enterprises that are experiencing serious financial
difficulties (as indicated by, among other things, arrears on wages, on taxes, to banks,
and to other enterprises). The Working Group will, by October 31, 1995, draft criteria
and propose procedures for the preparation and implementation of action plans for the
liquidation, restructuring, and/or privatization (as may be found appropriate in the
particular case) of the largest "problem" enterprises.
(iii)   A Working Group has been established to prepare a comprehensive review of the barriers
to entry for new private enterprises related to access to commercial real estate and to
registration of commercial activities, including recommendations for simplifying
regulations and otherwise reducing barriers to the establishment of new enterprises. The
report of the Working Group should be ready before the end of 1995 (so action on the
recommendations can be taken in early 1996).



-24-
(iv)   Procedures have been agreed upon as part of the privatization program, which will
provide for the breakup of monopolies (other than natural monopolies) in the process of
corporatization and privatization of state enterprises.
(v)    Responsibility has been assigned (to the Antimonopoly Committee and the Ministry of
Economy) to prepare draft legislation and regulations related to prevention of monopolies
and remedies for abuse of monopoly power.
(vi)   Directed credits to state-owned enterprises (SOEs) have been eliminated. (Also in the
IMF agreement.)
(vii)   The Government announced and has strictly adhered to a policy of no further general
clearance of arrears which would have to be financed by credit expansion. This applies
to inter-enterprise arrears, enterprise arrears to banks, and enterprise tax arrears. (Also
in IMF agreement.)
(viii)  Legislation has been submitted to and enacted by Parliament which provides the legal
framework for agrarian reform in support of private farming.
(ix)   Regular credit auctions are being held by the ANB. (Also in the IMF agreement.)
(x)    As part of the changed role of the State Committee on Anti-Monopoly Policy and Support
for Entrepreneurship, the "Register of Monopoly Enterprises" is no longer used as a basis
for control of pricey and profit margins.
(xi)   Residents are allowed to purchase foreign exchange for all bona fide trade transactions.
Non-residents are allowed to remit earnings (after taxes) and to repatriate capital. (Also
in the IMF agreement.)
(xii)  Tariffs have been converted to an ad valorem basis (except for a limited number of
specific tariffs covering about 4.0 percent of imports).
(xiii)  The list of strategic goods still subject to export controls have been reduced from 17 to
7. No additional export taxes have been introduced. (Also in the IMF agreement.)
89.   The implementation  of the structural reform  program  outlined  in the accompanying
"Memorandum on Economic Reform Policies" will be kept under review. A review in January 1996
would focus on the implementation of the privatization program (which identifies a number of steps which
are to be completed by the end of 1995). Progress on both financial stabilization and structural
adjustment will also be informally reviewed in the last quarter of 1995 in the course of expected
consultations, involving both the Fund and the Bank, regarding the financial and structural reform
program for 1996. Although the above indicated prior actions are the only formal policy conditionality
included in the Rehabilitation Credit, the processing of a possible subsequent adjustment operation will
depend in part upon satisfactory implementation of the structural reforms outlined in the "Memorandum
on Economic reform Policies" submitted in connection with the present operation.



-25-
D.    Project Management, Financial Reporting and Implementation Arrangements
90.   The borrower will be the Republic of Azerbaijan as represented by the Ministry of Finance. The
project will be implemented by the Azerbaijan National Bank (ANB). Disbursement of the credit will
take the form of reimbursements which will be made on the basis of satisfactory evidence regarding
imports of eligible goods. Disbursements are expected to take place at approximately monthly intervals.
The proceeds of the Credit will be deposited in a Finance Ministry account at the ANB, and will be
converted to manats at the unified exchange rate prevailing on the day of deposit. The interbank foreign
exchange auction market is a well established institution in Azerbaijan; auctions normally take place at
least once each week.
91.   A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been created in the Azerbaijan National Bank. The
Manager of the PIU is the Vice Chairman of the ANB. This PIU will also be responsible for
implementation of the Institution Building Technical Assistance Credit (IBTAC). The PIU in the ANB
will have primary responsibility for implementation of the credit and also for providing IDA with
information on implementation, including both policy actions and utilization of loan proceeds.
92.   The Azerbaijan Customs Committee has agreed to provide the PIU with the documentation on
imports which will be required to support disbursements of the credit. While the Customs Committee
will provide the basic documentation, the PIU will be responsible for the review of this material to be
sure that goods included in the standard "Negative List", or which are otherwise not eligible for
reimbursement, are not included in the statement of expenditures. Bank Group staff have reviewed the
customs certificates that will be provided by the Customs Committee and have ascertained that they
contain all of the required information. The Customs Committee has already begun to provide, and the
PIU has begun to review, the import documentation that will be required to facilitate the previously
mentioned retroactive financing.
93.   Approximately once a month the PIU will prepare a request for reimbursement from the
Rehabilitation Credit. This request will include supporting documentation which summarizes the imports
of eligible goods. The PIU staff will also be responsible for conducting implementation reviews
accounting for funds, furnishing periodic reports, and for a final project audit covering the imports
documentation provided by the Customs Committee. PIU staff will also be responsible for providing
advice regarding ineligible imports, typical procurement procedures, advertising and market search
techniques, and appropriate documentation to establish the eligibility of imports.
E.    Procurement
94.   As part of the ongoing economic reforms, the Government of Azerbaijan is considering the
development and introduction of the legislative framework and the subsequent establishment of
institutional requirements for public procurement in the country. A Country Procurement Assessment
Report (CPAR) has not been prepared, but the Association plans to initiate in FY96 the preparation of
a Country Procurement Strategy Paper (CPSP) in lieu of CPAR.
95.   The proposed Credit will finance 100 percent of delivered cost of general imports into Azerbaijan,
except the items contained in the standard negative list. The public and private enterprises in Azerbaijan
generally conclude import contracts through competitive quotations from different countries and these
practices are acceptable for procurement under the proposed operation. Currently, it has no requirement
for preshipment inspection. However, the possibility of introducing the preshipment inspection for



-26-
imports will be discussed in the context of the CPSP. The PIU will have the oversight responsibility for
procurement under the proposed operation, with the assistance of an internationally recruited procurement
advisor, retained by the PIU under the Institution Building Technical Assistance Project.
96.   Imports by the Government Ministries, Public Enterprises and private importers exceeding US$
1 million per contract will be procured through simplified ICB, except commonly traded commodities,
which will be procured through organized international commodity markets or through other channels of
competitive procurement acceptable to the Bank. The standard bidding documents of the Bank will be
used for simplified ICB in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" (January 1995). Imports not exceeding the equivalent of US$1 million per contract by private
enterprises will be procured in accordance with the importer's standard commercial practices. In the case
of public entities, contracts must be based upon at least three quotations from at least two eligible
countries. In the case of contracts estimated to cost more than US$10 million under ICB, there will be
a prior Bank review in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
97.   Disbursement. The Credit will finance 100 percent of the foreign expenditures on goods imported
from Bank member countries. Imports eligible for financing under the Credit are subject to a standard
negative list as per Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement. Disbursements for imports under contracts of
US$2 million each will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure, based on summaries of
Customs Certificate data. This information will include certificate number, description of the goods,
landed cost, country of origin and date of Customs clearance. The customs certificates covered by the
SOE will be retained by the PIU for review by IDA supervision missions and auditors. Application for
withdrawal will be for a minimum amount of $2 million. In the case of imports under contracts
exceeding US$1 million, the request for disbursement would have to be accompanied by full
documentation as described in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook and specified in the Disbursement
Letter. Retroactive financing of up to SDR 8,300,000 is available to payments made after Mav 31, 1995,
which is within the four-month period prior to the expected date of credit sigining.
F.    Benefits and Risks
98.   Azerbaijan is undertaking a comprehensive and ambitious program of financial stabilization and
structural reform.  The proposed credit would provide significant and timely support for the
Government's efforts. With the necessary external financial assistance and policy support over the next
few years, and assuming the essentially political problems related to expanding petroleum exports are
resolved without prolonged delays, it should be possible for Azerbaijan to progress rapidly from a fairly
poor (IDA-eligible) country in serious economic difficulties to a prosperous and rapidly growing middle-
income country. Moreover, because Azerbaijan's needs are not of special interest to any one of the major
bilateral donors, the potential impact of the World Bank Group is correspondingly more important.
99.   There is, however, an inevitable risk that the Government's program of financial stabilization and
structural reform will experience some delays in implementation. Implementation of reform in Azerbaijan
faces a number of difficulties which are in addition to those which m14st be faced by most other countries
negotiating the course from a command economy to a market economy. It may prove difficult for the
nation's leaders to continue to focus their attention and political energies on financial and economic
policies if the present cease fire agreement breaks down, or even if no significant progress is made
toward a more permanent resolution of the conflict. Furthermore, even with full attention to the reform
task, leaders in Azerbaijan may find it more difficult than in other transition countries to maintain the
public support needed for a sustained reform effort. While in any country there is some danger of losing



-27-
public support for economic reforms as a result of the hardships encountered in the adjustment process,
in Azerbaijan this danger could well be greater because of the proportionally larger decline in output that
has already taken place. Public tolerance of continued and additional hardship could also be tested by
the inevitable social and economic problems that result from having 900,000 refugees and displaced
persons in a population of 7.5 million.
100.  In addition its land-locked geographical location renders Azerbaijan vulnerable to adverse external
developments. In the past approximately 70 percent of the country's external trade traveled through
Chechnya. This route has been closed since September of last year. In the short run, renewed access
to this transport route will be an important factor affecting production and trade. Although alternative
routes are being used, their capacity is limited and transportation costs are significantly higher.
Regarding the medium term, the development of Azerbaijan's large petroleum reserves depends on the
construction of a new pipeline that can carry the added production to world markets. However,
international agreement on its construction may be difficult to achieve and implement. The problem is
complicated by disagreements over the exploitation of Caspian Sea resources. Resolution of these matters
is crucial to the pace of economic recovery and the strengthening of Azerbaijan's creditworthiness. The
base case scenario we have used for our projections of capital requirements and country creditworthiness
assumes a two-year delay in the implementation of the oil consortium's program to expand petroleum
production. We believe that this is a reasonable, if cautious, assumption. But there is no guarantee that
will not turn out to have been optimistic.
101.  There is also a possibility that, because of a lack of interest on the part of bilateral donors, it may
not be possible to mobilize sufficient external assistance during the interval before the benefits of
expanded oil production are realized. Thus there are substantial risks of delays, and even setbacks, in
the implementation of Azerbaijan's economic reform program and also in restoring economic output and
growth to the levels justified by Azerbaijan's natural and human resources. However, the benefits from
providing assistance at this time are correspondingly great.
G.    Recommendation
102.  I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
International Development Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed Credit.
Attachments                                             James D. Wolfensohn
July 26, 1995                                                President
Washington, D.C.



I



AZaRBAYCAN RESPUBLIKASI NAZiRLaR KABINETI
Indeks 370066, Baki sah., Lerniontov kuiasi. 68. Tel 92-66-23  Teleks 142163 BABaK. Faks 929179, 923108.
;   22/I5-347                                       20         07          1995 il
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President, World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
The Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan has embarked on a fundamental
reform process aimed at transforming Azerbaijan into a market economy. To this end, earlier
this year we completed the formulation of a program of macroeconomic stabilization and
economic reform in cooperation with the staff of the International Monetary Fund. We have
now completed a more detailed and comprehensive program of structural reform in
cooperation with the staff of the World Bank Group.
Our program is outlined in the attached "Memorandum on Economic Reform
Policies". This paper briefly summarizes our program for financial stabilization and then goes
into considerable detail on our program of structural reform. This program focuses on the
reform of Azerbaijan's productive enterprises. In particular, it discusses privatization,
enterprise restructuring and corporate governance, private sector development, financial
sector reform, and procompetition and anti-monopoly policies. As essential parts of the
process of creating a competitive market economy, our policies in these areas are
accompanied by both liberalization of prices and liberalization of external trade. We
recognize the need for adequate social protection measures during the difficult transition
process and, especially, given our added difficulties arising from a large refugee and internally
displaced population. Consequently our economic reform program includes measures need to
strengthen our system of social protection.
To support the program of economic reform described in this letter, through the
provision of foreign resources which will help meet both balance of payments and budgetary
needs, the Government of Azerbaijan requests a Rehabilitation Credit from the International
Development Association in the amount of US$ 65 million.
Fuad Guliyev                  Elman Rustamov   d           Fikret  Yifov /'
<                       'eeeC                                       9
Prime Minister               Governor of the                 i ste   Finance
Republic of Azerbaijan       Azerhaijan National           of the Government
Bank                         Azerbaijan






ANNEX 1
MEMORANDUM ON ECONOMIC REFORM POLICIES
1.    This "Memorandum on Economic Reform Policies" describes the measures being taken by
Azerbaijan to bring inflation under control, restore economic growth, and strengthen the institutional and
regulatory framework needed by an efficient and competitive market economy. Following a brief
description of the macroeconomic program that has been put in place for 1995, the Memorandum
discusses privatization, enterprise restructuring and corporatization of governance, private sector
development, financial sector reform, procompetition and antimonopoly policies, price liberalization,
trade policy, and social protection.
The Macroeconomic Program for 1995
2.   The combination of accelerating inflation, a deteriorating current account, and continued output
decline in 1994 has made it obvious that the only viable route to financial stability and renewed economic
growth goes through rapid price stabilization, restoration of external balance, and accelerated structural
reforms. For 1995, therefore, we have adopted a tight macroeconomic program. Key program targets
agreed with the IMF include monthly inflation of no more than 3 percent by July and 2 percent by
December, gross external reserves of Azerbaijan National Bank (ANB) equivalent to about seven weeks'
imports, and holding the accumulation of non-concessional debt reserves within tight limits.
3.   A major contributor to the accelerating inflation in 1994 was the continued expansion of central
bank credit to the budget and to troubled state enterprises and agriculture. Price liberalization has been
a contributing factor, but (except for housing and public transport) it was largely completed by mid-1995.
The real depreciation of the exchange rate, and the resulting increases in import costs, contributed
significantly to inflation in 1994, but this trend has been reversed in the first half of 1995. Our
stabilization program concentrates on limiting domestic financing of the budget deficit, and on tight
ceilings on the expansion of ANB's net domestic assets and reserve money. These policies imply a large
reduction in the real level of credit to the rest of the economy. In line with identified foreign financing
and realistic projections of revenues, we have identified expenditures reductions which should allow us
to reduce the budget deficit from 13.2 percent of GDP in 1994 to 4.8 percent of GDP in 1995. This year
domestic financing of the budget deficit will not exceed 2 percent of GDP. As to ANB's net domestic
assets and reserve money, targeted increases between December 1994 and December 1995 are below
projected inflation over the same period (thus allowing for some increase in velocity to accompany the
tighter credit program). We have strengthened ANB's ability to conduct monetary policy by removing
automatic overdraft privileges previously given to state commercial banks; also we have submitted for
parliamentary approval a new law establishing central bank independence.
4.   In January of this year the ANB increased its refinance interest rate from 9.6 percent per month
(highly negative in real terms) to a monthly rate of 17.5 percent. This compares with an average monthly
inflation rate (as measured by the CPI) of 12.1 percent in the first four months of 1995, also by
increasing the energy prices. Now that credit auctions are being conducted on a regular basis, the ANB
has been able to base the refinance rate for the state banks on the results in the auction market.
5.  The problem of re-establishing external balance has been made more difficult by the increase in the
price we pay for natural gas imports combined with a reduction in the volume of oil production and in
petroleum product exports. We recognize the ineffectiveness of trade and exchange restrictions in
restoring external balance. Instead, our program relies on the restraining impact of tight financial and
monetary policies on domestic expenditures. This is expected to reduce the current account deficit from



-2-                                    ANNEX 1
about 17 percent of GDP in 1994 to about 9.7 percent in 1995. As described in more detail below, we
have established a liberal trade and exchange rate system. Improved confidence in our policies will
support greater exchange rate stability. To that end, our program includes the restoration of ANB's gross
external reserves to seven weeks of import cover as well as limits on state sector foreign borrowing on
non-concessional terms. No further accumulation of external arrears is taking place in 1995 and we have
reached a rescheduling agreement with Turkmenistan on the arrears from the past.
Privatization
6.   We intend to proceed with the privatization of 75 percent of state enterprises (by asset value and
employment). The objective of privatization is the development of self-regulated market economy,
functioning on the principles of private ownership, entrepreneurial management, and competition as well
as the involvement of private investment (including foreign investments) in the national economy. To
accomplish these goals, we have adopted a comprehensive Privatization Program and an Action Plan for
implementation. Priority in 1995 will be small-scale privatization, corporatization, and creating the legal,
regulatory, administrative and physical infrastructure for mass privatization (auctions will commence at
the beginning of 1996) and the establishment of a share trading market.
7.     The Program covers virtually all small-scale enterprises and most medium  and large-sized
enterprises in all sectors of the economy, including communications, transport, power and agroprocessing.
("Small," "medium" and "large" are defined in the Program.) Prohibited from privatization are only
natural resources, protected natural areas, objects of historical and cultural heritage, property of the
Armed Forces and Navy, environmental protection institutions, health institutions, correction facilities,
objects and institutions of the population's social protection. Small-scale enterprises will begin with the
privatization of over 8,000 objects in 1995 and the balance in 1996. Employees of those enterprises will
have a right of first refusal (transferable among the employees) to obtain ownership of the enterprise on
favorable terms. In the event of their refusal, small enterprises will be auctioned publicly through uniform
and transparent procedures, with information published in advance of the auctions. There will be no
profile restrictions for privatized small enterprises except for a few consumer necessities for retail shops
(such as bread and pharmaceuticals); all such profiles will terminate not later than the end of 1998.
There will be no profile restrictions for medium and large enterprises in the mass privatization program.
8.   All medium and large enterprise will be corporatized. Regulations for corporatization, including
model or standard packages of documents will be made available to all enterprises by September 30,
1995. The standard package will include a simple, standard enterprise evaluation methodology, a model
balance sheet, a corporate charter, minutes book, a prospectus (for open joint-stock companies), an
application for registration and instructions for completion, including deadlines to be enforced by the State
Property Committee which will have the authority to take over the process if the enterprise fails to meet
the deadlines. The detailed timetables are set out in the Action Plan for Privatization of the SPC.
9.   The privatization of medium and large enterprises shall be implemented through a combination of
cash auctions and "pai." Each citizen of the Republic will receive one pai, each with four vouchers.
Vouchers can be used to acquire up to 65 percent of the shares of all enterprises offered for vouchers
(except for small objects). Employees shall have a preferred right, in an initial closed subscription, to
receive up to 15 percent of an enterprise for their pai, with remaining shares from the 15 percent made
available for auction to the public. The shares of medium enterprises not taken by employees may be
offered first at cash auctions, or may be offered for vouchers, or for both in some combination at SPC's
discretion. At least 50 percent of the shares of large enterprises shall be auctioned to the public for
vouchers. Of the remaining 35 percent, 10 - 20 percent will be sold at cash auctions and the balance will
be distributed between GRIFS and ZIFS (discussed below). Auction methodology will be transparent,



-3-                                  ANNEX 1
fair and simple, with the objective of clearing the market at once. Once a supply of corporatized
enterprises is established, the auction process will be conducted in "rounds" whereby a number is brought
to the market regularly for auction. Unpriced bids will be presented by voucher holders to local "share
shops" which will send the bids to a central clearing facility for calculation of results and notification and
documentation of the new shareholder. The share shops have no role in advising or directing voucher or
share placement.
10. The pai program will be supported by a central depository for safekeeping of shares and destruction
of vouchers and for establishing a central account system for stock transfer and the issue of account
statements. The Securities Commission will supervise the depository. A private securities market will
be encouraged through the licensing of private brokers. Secondary trading and issue of shares will be on
a private exchange. Regulations for the auction process (both cash and voucher), the depository, the form
of shares (whether certificated, dematerialized, bearer, registered, etc.) and the trading of shares, share
shops, and the technical means for support will be issued by September 30, 1995. We will submit any
necessary laws to Parliament and complete regulations for the licensing of private brokers and the
functioning of a private stock market by September 30, 1995.
11.   For a few very large, significant enterprises, the Program provides for privatization through
commnercial tender. This form of privatization is also referred to as case-by-case privatization. This form
of privatization will seek strategic investors, both foreign and local. Not more than 10 percent of
enterprises subject to privatization (by value and employment) will be subject to case-by-case
privatization. Regulations for commercial tender privatization, and standard procedures and model
documents, will be completed by September 30, 1995.
12.   To encourage widespread investment, we will encourage the emergence of private investment
funds. Corresponding regulations to coordinate their activity shall be adopted by December 31, 1995.
Investment funds will be in the form of joint-stock corporations and will be permitted to issue their own
shares for vouchers. Their investments will be limited to valuable papers (securities, bonds, cash). No
investment fund will be able to acquire more than 10 percent of all vouchers issued. At auctions, any
individual private investment fund will be able to acquire up to 25 % of the shares of any one enterprise.
Investment funds will not be permitted to invest more than 15 percent of their assets in any one
corporation. The regulations will prevent concentration of funds under related owners or groups and
holding companies.
13.  In addition, we intend to establish GRIFS and ZIPs. Initially state-owned investment funds, ZIFs
will receive not more than 10 percent of shares of the most liquid companies. The ZIFs' own shares will
then be sold exclusively to foreign investors. GRIFs are initially state-owned investment funds in the form
of a joint-stock company. GRIPS will receive not more than 15 percent of the shares of each medium and
large corporation in the privatization process. All state shares held by the GRIFs will be sold to the public
and thus privatized. The regulations on GRIFS and ZIFs will be adopted by September 30, 1995, at the
latest.
14. We are opposed to monopolistic structures and will prevent their emergence or continuation in the
privatization process. Competition will be encouraged. Holding companies will be limited to a very few
in specific industries or utilities where economies of scale are required to permit competition outside the
Republic or efficiency of services to the public. However, even for such structures, enterprises or
activities not directly related to the main business, such as catering or supply of materials, will be
separated and privatized. Holding companies are absolutely prohibited in the areas of trade, catering,
consumer services, material supply, wholesale trade, local and light industry, distribution, food
processing, road transport, and construction.



-4-                                   ANNEX 1
15.   We recognize that public information is vital to the success of privatization and therefore we
undertake an active effort in this regard. The public should be fully informed about all aspects of the
Privatization Program.
16. We understand that it is essential that privatized enterprises begin their functioning on the principles
of a market economy. That is why we will be sure to impose a "hard budget constraint" on financing of
their activities, and any state subsidies will be eliminated and prohibited in the future for these
enterprises. This will keep them under proper discipline and facilitate their successful transition to the
market economy.
Enterprise Restructuring and Corporate Governance
17.  In addition to proceeding as rapidly as possible with privatization of the majority of state-owned
enterprises (SOEs), we will develop and implement a comprehensive program to encourage and facilitate
enterprise restructuring. This program will include the following elements: (1) reducing and eliminating
as quickly as possible government financial transfers to cover operating losses of state enterprises and
imposing strict financial discipline on them, (2) improving the lending policies of the state-owned banks
and limiting the access of loss-making SOEs to credit from state-owned banks, (3) enforcing bankruptcy
and improving payments discipline of enterprises, (4) isolating the largest loss-making state enterprises
from the banking system and speeding up their restructuring, privatization, or liquidation, and
(5) improving corporate governance of enterprises which will remain in the state-owned sector either
temporally or for the foreseeable future.
18.  We recognize the urgent need to impose strict financial discipline on enterprises. For this purpose,
we have already taken a number of measures. A Bankruptcy Law was approved by Parliament in July
1994. Direct budget subsidies to cover the operating losses of state enterprises, including those in the
bread complex, were eliminated in the 1995 central government budget approved by Parliament in
February 1993. In addition, tax legislation was revised at the start of 1995 to eliminate the exemptions
and privileges in profit and value-added taxation for SOEs. State investment in SOEs (e.g., public
utilities), some of which is currently financed by the state commercial banks, will be rationalized and
included in the budget as part of our public investment program. To further impose financial discipline,
we intend to enforce vigorously the recently approved Bankruptcy Law.
19. We realize that financial discipline for the SOEs cannot be tightened without changes in the lending
policies of the state commercial banks. Enterprise restructuring and reform of the state commercial banks
must be addressed simultaneously because these banks are the major creditors of the SOEs and the claims
on SOEs, especially the larger ones, dominate the asset portfolio of the banks. The measures discussed
below regarding financial sector reform will contribute to improving management in all enterprises, not
only in those that are in the financial sector. Until a comprehensive program of restructuring and
privatization of the state commercial banks can be carried out, we intend to introduce a number of interim
measures. One of these is that the Government, as the majority owner, will instruct the state commercial
banks to improve their lending policies, basing their lending decisions upon their own analysis of the
creditworthiness of, and security offered by, potential borrowers. As discussed subsequently, in the
future large loss-making SOEs will be isolated from the commercial banking system; beginning in 1996,
any transfers they require in connection with their restructuring or liquidation should be provided through
the budget rather than adding to the portfolio problems of the commercial banks. Should it be found
convenient to use commercial banks as agents for the Government in disbursing or collecting state funds,
the financial flows will be included in the budget.



-5-                                   ANNEX 1
20.   Improving payments discipline, including enforcing bankruptcy, is an important part of our
program. Enterprise arrears, including those to other enterprises, to banks and to the Government,
continue to be a serious problem. We recognize that the excessive accumulation of enterprise arrears is
largely a symptom of the lack of enterprise adjustment, and that the ultimate solution will require both
changes in the behavior of enterprise managers and the restructuring of many enterprises. The excessive
and rapid accumulation of enterprise arrears not only hinders enterprise adjustment, but also threatens
the banking system  and reduces government revenue. As a first step to discourage the further
accumulation of enterprise arrears, we recently adopted regulations which will force enterprises holding
foreign exchange deposits to use them to pay off their arrears. To coordinate our policies in this area,
we instituted in April 1995 a State Commission on the Stabilization of the Financial Situation in the
Republic Economy. We are firmly committed and will strictly adhere to the policy of not engaging in any
'clearance of arrears" involving credit expansion or budgetary means. If necessary, amendments or new
legislation will he introduced to further simplify the procedures for creditors wishing to take legal actions
against their debtors.
21.   We believe that it is necessary to isolate from the commercial banking system the largest loss-
making state enterprises and to speed up their restructuring, privatization or liquidation. Much of the SOE
sector has so far not adjusted significantly to changes in the market environment and many inefficient
enterprises continued to operate because of the low prices of energy and raw material inputs, subsidies
from the State, and financing with accumulated arrears. With the deepening of price and trade
liberalization, and the further tightening of financial discipline, the number of enterprises in serious
financial difficulties may increase further. We are currently preparing a government strategy for
enterprise restructuring. We believe that most loss-making enterprises, especially the small and medium-
sized ones, should be either privatized or liquidated. If privatized, it will be with the clear understanding
that no further government subsidies will be provided. For some of the largest loss makers, where it may
not be possible to close them down immediately or where some of them can become viable with
significant passive restructuring, we intend to isolate them from the banking system and a government
agency will be assigned or created to take charge of their restructuring. Any continued government
transfers to these enterprises to cover operating losses will be conditioned strictly on the passive
restructuring of the recipients (e.g, labor shedding, closure of plants or production lines) or targeted for
specific purposes such as the costs of operating social infrastructures not yet divested to municipal
authorities. Tariffs and cost of services will be increased to fully cover operating costs of public utilities;
this policy is to become fully effective at the start of 1996.
22.   We further recognize that improvements in corporate governance of both SOEs which will be
privatized and those that will remain, at least for some time, in the state sector, are essential for enforcing
financial discipline and sustaining improved performance. As a first step, a law on joint-stock companies
was adopted by the Parliament in July 1994. Recognizing the importance of proper reporting and
disclosure of financial information in improving corporate governance of enterprises, we have prepared,
and Parliament has approved, a new Law on Accounting which establishes internationally accepted
accounting standards. In 1995 we also intend to present a new law on Enterprises to the Parliament. All
SOEs (with the exception of some defense and solely budget-financed non-commercial enterprises) will
be incorporated as part of our privatization program and the state's ownership (ownership right) will be
assigned to a government agency or agencies which will represent the state as owner by the end of 1995.
As an initial step to improve their performance, the regulatory functions will be separated from the actual
operation and management of public utilities and natural monopolies. We plan to submit to the Parliament
by the end of 1995 legislation on the regulation of public utilities and natural monopolies.



-6-                                   ANNEX 1
Private Sector Development
23.  Private sector development is an integral part of our economic transformation strategy. Given the
inefficiencies and financial situation in SOEs, we believe that the rapid development of the private sector
is essential for arresting the sharp decline in the economy and for the resumption of economic growth.
The development of the private sector will also help absorb the redundant labor currently maintained on
the payrolls of the SOEs, which is likely to become openly unemployed as a result of privatization and
enterprise restructuring, thus softening the impact of the transition on the population.
24.  We are keenly aware that the development of the private sector in Azerbaijan has been constrained
not only by the general political and economic difficulties in the country, but also by the slow pace of
privatization, the unequal access to credit and real estate for private enterprises, and by the lack of a
conducive legal and regulatory framework. Measures which we have taken, and which we are intending
to take, to promote stronger private banks are discussed below as part of financial sector reform policies.
25.  On the legal front, the Law on Collateral was adopted in 1994, and the Law on Mortgages was
adopted in 1995. Until now, access to commercial real estate has been very limited for the private sector,
mainly because most commercial real estate has been in the hands of SOEs. It is our intention to privatize
most small enterprises as soon as possible and complete the small-scale privatization by the end of 1996.
During the privatization and corporatization process, SOEs will be encouraged to spin off real estate and
other assets; provisions will also be made for the sale of (individual) assets of SOEs which are not related
to their main business in the course of the privatization program. The Parliament adopted in February
1995 two laws on agriculture reforms which provide the legal framework for agrarian reform in support
of private farming. We intend to introduce new legislation and amendments to existing legislation which
will allow the free transfer and mortgaging of residential and commercial real estate. We also plan to set
up a proper system of property registration by the end of 1995. This system will provide for clear and
exact definitions of real property, will indicate the present ownership of this property, and provide for
recording subsequent changes in ownership.
26.   We recognize that the current system of registration and regulation for private enterprises is
cumbersome and represents a serious obstacle to the expansion of private sector activities. Our goal is
to create a simplified and modernized registration system for new businesses and to establish a simple
and transparent regulatory framework. To achieve this, we will undertake a comprehensive review of the
current regulatory framework for private sector development. This review will be completed by the end
of 1995. Based on the findings, measures will be taken to remove the barriers to entry and establish
simple, open procedures for registration with a minimum of special licensing. Legislation will also be
introduced to establish effective and independent systems (including self-initiated conciliation) for the
resolution of disputes, the enforcement of contracts and the protection of legal rights.
Financial Sector Reform
27.  In the financial sector we are focusing on the reform of the state commercial banks and on the
development of private commercial banks capable to serve the emerging private sector. The reform of
the state commercial banks, Prominvestbank and Agroprombank, Sberbank, International Stock-
Commercial Bank will go hand in hand with state enterprise restructuring because lending to state
enterprises dominates their asset portfolios. With the elimination of budget subsidies, these banks are
practically the only source of outside financing for state enterprises. (Given the tight financial constraint,
the public sector investment program is severely limited even for infrastructure expenditures.) Many of
the private banks that have been established since 1992 (about 200) are too small and fragmented to
supply financial services to the emerging private sector and newly privatized enterprises. We recognize



-7.                                  ANNEX 1
the need for consolidation of the private banking sector and for supporting the development of an
appropriate funding base and the acquisition of a higher level of banking skills.
28.  We are aware of the weak financial position of the state commercial banks because of their bad
debt problems. Diagnostic studies are being undertaken, with financial support from the IDA Institution
Building Technical Assistance credit; an appropriate program of restructuring, privatization, or sale, will
be initiated as soon as these diagnostic studies are available. In the interim we are taking a number of
measures. First, the refinancing rate for state commercial banks is now based upon the rate resulting from
the credit auctions, and these banks are allowed to set their own lending rates to enterprises. Second, all
governmental agencies are prohibited from interfering in the banks' lending activities. Third, as soon as
alternative arrangements have been made for large loss-making SOEs, the Government will instruct the
managers of the state banks to act as commercial bankers and to deny new lending to SOEs that did not
appear to be creditworthy because of their persistent arrears to the bank. The problems of such enterprises
will be dealt with through the "isolation" and restructuring exercise discussed earlier. These steps should,
among other things, be of help in reducing the bad portfolio problems of the state commercial banks.
29.  To advance the consolidation of the private commercial banking sector, we have already increased
the minimum capital requirement for new banking licenses to the equivalent of US$ 500,000. For existing
banks we are increasing the requirement, step by step, to reach the equivalent of US$50,000 by the end
of the year. In the following two years the minimum capital requirement for existing banks will be raised
to the same level as for new banks. ANB will require any bank failing to meet the scheduled increases
to merge with another bank or will revoke their banking license. Furthermore, ANB monitors the
financial position of commercial banks wishing to participate in the credit auctions so as to prevent
participation by insolvent banks. More than 30 banks have so far qualified. The others will find
themselves under strong pressure to merge with a qualified bank or go out of business.
30.  The funding base for private banks is being improved by giving state and qualified private banks
equal access to ANB's refinancing facility. In the first half of 1995 ANB increased refinancing for
private banks from zero to 25 percent of total refinancing. Beginning in July 1995 all refinancing is
being provided through the credit auction market. In addition, the State Savings Bank will be required
to supply not less than half of the resources it mobilizes to the credit auctions. Also, we are removing
artificial competitive disadvantages of private commercial banks regarding their ability to attract deposits.
In particular, a proposal will be submitted to Parliament in the nearest future to remove the tax
exemptions now provided to the State Savings Bank by legislative act. We will also eliminate any
recommendation that state enterprises hold their accounts with a state commercial bank.
31.    The ANB is strengthening its supervision functions in the area of asset classification and
provisioning for bad and doubtful debts. In the course of 1995 we will introduce rules in this area, and
require all state and commercial banks to introduce asset classification procedures and make provisions
based on this classification.
Procompetition and Antimonopoly Policies
32.  We recognize that the creation of a competitive market environment is essential for the success of
enterprise reform and the development of the private sector. We believe that this is an area in which
government policy can play an active policy role but that the emphasis of government intervention will
need to be changed significantly in the market environment. To redefine the role of government in this
area, we intend to focus our policy on two equally important aspects: promoting competition, and
preventing the abuse of monopoly power.



-8-
transportation. The stabilization program concentrates on limiting domestic financing to the budget, and
on placing tight ceilings on expansion of Azerbaijan National Bank's (ANB's) net domestic assets and
reserve money, thus implying large reductions in the real level of credit to the rest of the economy.
Incomes policy is to be limited to the announcement of semi-annual inflation targets intended to encourage
enterprises to base wage settlements on these targets and on their firm-specific productivity developments.
26.    The stabilization program envisages a budget deficit reduction of more than 8 percentage points
of GDP in 1995. This reduction depends on success in reducing expenditures from 46.1 percent to 33.1
percent of GDP, a cut of 13.0 percentage points. Revenues are expected to fall by 4.7 percentage points
of GDP, thus resulting in a decline in the budget deficit from 13.2 percent of GDP in 1994 to a projected
4.8 percent of GDP in 1995. Of this, only 2 percentage points would be financed domestically, the
remainder by identified foreign financing including the oil consortium bonus payments and part of the
proceeds from this proposed Rehabilitation Credit.
27.    Monetary and credit policy is intended to be extremely tight in 1995. Between December 1994
and December 1995 inflation is projected at 142 percent, but reserve money and ANB's net domestic
assets are targeted to increase only 86 percent and 74 percent, respectively. To enable ANB to conduct
policy consistent with the overriding objective of price stability, the Government already has removed
automatic overdraft facilities of the Agroprom and Prominvest banks.
28.    ANB's refinance interest rate was increased to a monthly rate of 17.5 percent in January from
the previous monthly rate of 9.6 percent, which had been highly negative in real terms. This new rate
compares with an average monthly inflation rate (as measured by the CPI) of 13.8 percent in the first
quarter of 1995. Credit auctions were started in March, and the central bank's refinance rate is now
based upon the results of these auctions. The average monthly interest rates established at the initial
auctions were in the 14.9 - 16.7 percent range.
29.   The authorities recognize that trade and exchange restrictions are ineffective means for regaining
external balance. Azerbaijan will therefore continue policies of trade and exchange liberalization
described below. Instead, the Government relies on the restraining impact of tight fiscal and monetary
policies on domestic absorption to reduce the current account deficit from about 17 percent of GDP in
1994 to about 6 percent in 1995. Restoring ANB's gross external reserves to about seven weeks of
import cover is expected to improve confidence, as are restrictions on public foreign borrowing on non-
concessional terms, an end to external arrears accumulation and the rescheduling of debt to Turkmenistan.
Improved confidence would support greater exchange rate stability.
B.    Structural Reforms
30.    The Rehabilitation Credit focusses on supporting the reform of the enterprise sector in Azerbaijan.
This includes structural reforms related to privatization, corporate governance and enterprise
restructuring, private sector development, pro-competition and anti-monopoly policies, and the banking
sector. To make the transition to a market economy, where market determined prices are guides to
efficient resource allocation decisions, the actions in these areas will have to be complemented by reforms
of price and subsidy policies and of foreign trade policies. Finally, reform of the social protection system
is necessary. The system must meet the basic needs of the population during a difficult period, and do
so without compromising public sector budgetary management.



-9-
1.    Privatization
31.   Until recently, progress in privatization had been very slow. During the second half of 1992,
a State Property Committee (SPC) was established to undertake ownership transfer and some legal
measures were introduced to set the basis for private property rights. In January 1993, a privatization
law authorized the privatization of all state assets, with the exception of a negative list to be determined
in a program to be developed by the SPC and approved by the Parliament. However, it was not until
July 1995 that a comprehensive privatization program had been completed and was ready for
consideration by Parliament. (Parliamentary approval of the privatization program is a condition of
effectiveness for this Rehabilitation Credit). Prior to mid-1995, privatization had involved only a few
small-scale and trade-related activities (some run by 3-5 family members and almost always with fewer
than 50 employees) and a number of local industries. In addition, a limited number of apartments have
been privatized in Baku. As a result, approximately 90 percent of all productive assets and 80 percent
of employment still remain in the state-owned enterprise sector.
32.   By the beginning of 1995 the Government recognized that the pace, method and scope of past
privatization were unlikely to result in significant efficiency improvements in the economy. On the
contrary, failure to act was likely to result in: (i) demands for continued excessive budget subsidies which
will make any stabilization effort difficult; (ii) demands for subsidized credits that distort resource
allocation, hinder the development of a sound commercial banking system, and crowd out the resources
for the private sector; (iii) continued deterioration in the productivity and efficiency of the enterprises;
and (iv) spontaneous privatization and asset stripping of the state-owned enterprises (SOEs).
33.   With the intention of speedily implementing a broadly-based privatization program, in January
1995 the Government appointed a new Chairman of the SPC with the rank of Deputy Prime Minister.
Under its new Chairman, the SPC prepared the privatization program which is summarized in the
Government's "memorandum on Economic Reform Policies." Bank Group staff have reviewed this
program and have concluded that it offers both a feasible and desirable approach. The program covers
practically all small and most large and medium-sized enterprises, including those in communications,
transport and power. The Government intends to privatize approximately two-thirds of state assets in the
productive sector in the first stage of its privatization program (1995-1997). Total employment in the
enterprises to be privatized is estimated at over 1.9 million.
34.   Small-scale privatization. For 1995, the current proposal calls for the privatization of over 8,000
mainly small enterprises with a total employment of about 80,000 and accounting for about 5 percent of
state-owned assets. Priority will be given to the privatization of trade, services, food, transport and
construction enterprises (including unfinished construction). Particular attention will be given to de-
monopolization in the course of the privatization process. Where potentially competitive units are under
conmmon administrative control, they are to be privatized as individual units. It is the Government's
intention to complete the small scale privatization process by the end of 1996. Cash auctions rather than
vouchers will be used; purchasers will be required to pay 50 percent in cash and pay the balance over
the following three years.
35.   Mass privatization. In addition to small-scale privatization, the Government will use vouchers
for a mass privatization program covering all large and some medium-sized stated-owned enterprises.
The corporatization of large and medium-sized enterprises is planned to occur in late 1995 along with the
distribution of vouchers for the mass privatization program in 1996 covering about 800-1,000 mostly
medium-sized enterprises. In addition, the case-by-case privatization of the larger enterprises would be



-10-                                ANNEX 1
42. In line with food price liberalization, in February we increased cash compensation to 7,500 manats
per month for non-working pensioners and students, and 5,000 manats per month for children. Under
tight budget constraints, we intend to make room for raising benefit levels and including unemployed
workers among the beneficiaries. This will be done by improving targeting and streamlining other social
assistance benefits. As we proceed with price reform in public transport and utilities, as described above,
we will consider extending the cash compensation system.
43.  Regarding pension reform, we recognize the need to strengthen the finances of the Pension Fund
as a prerequisite for restoring mininum pensions to adequate levels. The payroll tax rate is now a
relatively high 35 percent; however, any lowering of this rate will be done only after our evaluation of
Pension Fund finances, which we intend to complete by the end of 1995.
44. The acceleration of enterprise restructuring described earlier can be expected to increase drastically
the number of unemployed and the importance of providing adequate minimum unemployment benefits.
In preparation, we intend to improve the collection of contributions to the Employment Fund following
the strengthened procedures that will be adopted for the Pension Fund. In addition, the Employment Fund
has terminated expenditures on job creation programs and is improving its capacity to fulfill its function
as an unemployment insurance institution. Also, we are reviewing the labor exchange and retraining
services of the Employment Fund with a view to increasing effectiveness and efficiency and facilitating
the entry of private suppliers of such services. Nevertheless, we may have to make provisions for
additional resources for the Employment Fund in the 1996 budget. We are concerned about the possible
lengthening of the duration of unemployment and are considering the possibility of concentrating public
works programs on the long-term unemployed.
45. Our resources are stretched by the need to provide assistance to the refugees and persons displaced
from areas occupied by foreign forces. These persons are eligible for the benefits of our social protection
system, but many of them face additional hardships due to lack of adequate housing and difficulties in
finding employment commensurate with their skills. We are working with United Nations and European
Union agencies, and with other organizations, to alleviate such hardships. We are encouraging wider use
of the retraining services of the Employment Fund. Our main effort, however, is to secure the return
of displaced persons to their homes through ongoing negotiations.
July 7, 1995



ANNEX 2
Azerbaijan: Structural Economic Reforms Policy Matrix
Objectives                   Actions Previously Taken        Fulfilled Prior Board Presentation  To Be Taken After Aug. 1, 1995
A. Privatization
1. Design of a speedy and broad-   Appointment in January 1995 of      Privatization program wasreviewed   The  Government  will develop,
based privatization program.       new Chairman of SPC with rank of    by Bank  staff and  agreement       adopt and submit to Parliament for
Deputy Prime Minister.             reached with Government on both     approval  (where  necessary)
the general program and the action  legislation and regulations on the
Preparation of a 'concept' paper   plan to implement this program.     establishment and operation  of
on privatization which has been                                         investment funds.
approved by the President, the     Following Government approval,
Speaker of Parliament, and two     the  privatization  program   was
parliamentary committees.          submitted  to   Parliament.
[Approval by Parliament is a
condition of effectiveness.)
2. Once approved by Parliament.    The Government has indicated its                                        Priority will be given to privatizing
the Government will immediately    intention  to  begin  small-scale                                       trade, services, food, transport and
begin implementation  of small-    privatization as soon as possible,                                      construction (including unfinished
scale privatization, so this part of  with the intention of privatizing                                    construction).
the program will be completed by   several thousand mainly small firms
the end of 1996.                   by the end of 1995.                                                     Where  potentially  competitive
small units are under common
administrative control, the potential
for abuse of monopoly power will
be eliminated by privatizing them
as individual units.
The   privatization   of  small
enterprises will be completed by
the end of 1996.
3. In  addidon  to  small-scale    The Government has indicated its                                        Privatization program  will cover
privatization, the Government will    intention to use vouchers for the                                    75% of state enterprises (by asset
implement a mass privatization     mass privatization progrm.                                              value and employment).
program.
Complete the corporatization of
medium and large enterprises by
December 31, 1995.
Distribution of vouchers to the
population and beginning auction
of enterprises for vouchers by
December 31,1995.
Government prepares, adopts, and
submits  to  Parliament  the
necessary legislation on stock
exchanges.
Draft, adopt and submit to
Parliament  legislation  for the
establishment of a Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) by
December 31, 1995.



ANNEX 2
Structural Economic Reforms
Policy Matrix teage 21
Objectives                      Actions Previously Taken          Fulfilled Prior Board Presentation     To Be Taken After Aug. 1, 1995
B. Corporate Governance and
Enterprise Restructurint
1. Financing, either through  the    Direct  budget  subsidies  to          Directed  credits to  state-owned
budget or through directed credits,   enterprises were eliminated in the    enterprises  (SOEs)  eliminated;
to  cover losses  of enterprises      1995  budget  (adopted   by           banks obtain  refunancing  in the
should be eliminated  except for      Parliament on February 20,1995).      credit auction market rather than
transfers that are linked to the                                            in form of directed credits.
design  and  implementation   of      The  Prominvest and  Agroprom
specific  enterprise  restructuring   state  banks  no  longer  have
programs).                            automatic  access  to   ANB
refinancing.
2. Tighter financial discipline needs  A bankruptcy law has been passed.    Working Group established (with       A  government agency, financed
to be imposed on enterprises. If a                                          representatives  from  Ministry of    through  the  budget,  will  be
sound commercial banking system                                             Finance, Ministry of Economics,       assigned, or created, to take charge
is to be developed, enterprises                                             and Azerbaijan National Bank) to      of the restructuring of the largest
needing   subsidies  to  cover                                              prepare  for 'isolation  exercise'.    recipients  of financial transfers.
operating   deficits  should   be                                           Group will (by Oct. 31,1995) draft    Any   continued   government
isolated  from  the  commercial                                             criteria  and propose  procedures     transfers to cover operating deficits
banking system.                                                             which   would  result  in  the        will  be  conditioned   on  the
subsequent   preparation   and        restructuring   of  the  recipient
implementation of actions plans for   enterprises  (e.g., labor shedding,
the   liquidation,   restructuring,   closure of plants or production
and/or privatization of the largest   lines)  or targeted  for specific
.problem' enterprises.                purposes  such as the costs of
operating social assets not yet
divested to municipal authorities,
privatized or closed down.
State investment in SOEs (e.g.,
public utilities) will be rationalized
and made trans-parent by including
all such expenditures in the budget.
In the case of public utilities
needing transfers because of price
controls, tariffs will be raised to
cover 100% of operating costs
(including  the  effects  of the
planned increase in energy prices).
3. Enterprise arrears, both to other  Regulations  have recendy  been       The Government announced and
enterprises and to the government,    adopted   which   will  force         stricdy adhered to the policy that it
continue to be a serious problem.     enterprises   holding   foreign       would not engage in a 'clearance of
Government action is needed to        exchange to  sell them to pay off     arrears' which would have to be
discourage excessive accumulation     their arrears.                        financed by credit expansion.
of  arrears  and  to  improve
bankruptcy procedures.



ANNEX 2
Structural Economic Reforms
Policy Matrix [Page 3]
Objectives                      Actions Previously Taken          Fulfilled Prior Board Presentation     To Be Taken After Aug. 1, 1995
4. Improvements in corporate          A law on joint stock companies was                                          Corporatize  all SOEs (with the
govemance are essential for both      adopted by Parliament in July 1994.                                         exception  of some defense and
SOEs which will be privatized and                                                                                 solely  budget  financed   non-
those that will remain, at least for                                                                              commercial enterprises) and assign
some time, in the public sector.                                                                                  the   state's  ownership  to   a
government agency or agencies
which will represent the state as
owner (by Dec. 31, 1995).
The policy and regulatory functions
will be separated from the actual
operation  and  management  of
public utilities. Government will
complete and submit to Parliament
legislation on the regulation of
public utilities (by Dec. 31, 1995).
C. Private Sector Development
1. The private sector should be      The  ANB   has  increased  its         SOEs are now permitted to keep        Tax exemptions granted  to  the
provided  with  equal access to       refuiancing for private commercial    deposits and conduct other banking    state-owned Amanat Bank will be
credit.                               banks from  zero to 25% of total      business with whatever bank the       eliminated, and all banks will be
refinancing when credit auctions      enterprise selects.                   treated   equally  regardless  of
introduced.                                                                 ownership.
The Law on Collateral was adopted
in 1994.
2. Real estate  for commercial        The  Law  on  Mortgages  was          The Govenmment submitted  and         The Govemment will prepare new
activities should be available and    adopted in 1995.                      Parliament adopted two laws on        legislation,  or  amendments  to
property rights should be clarified                                         agrarian reform which provide the     existing, legislation which will allow
and secured.                                                                legal  framework  for  agrarian       the free transfer and mortgaging of
reform  in  support  of private       residential and  commercial real
farming.                              estate.
The Govemment will set up proper
titling, property registration, and
cadastre arrangements.
3.  Simplify  and   streamline                                              The AMC assigned responsibility       Based on findings, launch a major
registration requirements for new                                           to complete before the end of 1995    deregulation  initiative, to remove
businesses, and establish a simple                                          a comprehensive review of barriers    barriers  to  entry  and  establish
and   transparent  regulatory                                               to  entry  for  new   private         simple,  open   procedures  for
framework.                                                                  enterprises.  Review will include     registration.
reconmuendations for simplifying
regulations and otherwise reducing    Establish       effective   and
barriers to the establishment of      independent  systems  (including
new enterprises.                      voluntary  arbitration)  for  the
resolution of disputes, the
enforcement of contracts, and the
protection of legal rights.



ANNEX 2
Structural Economic Reforms
Policy Matrix ['nge 4]
Objectives                     Actions Previously Taken         Fulfilled Prior Board Presentation    To Be Taken After Aug. 1, 1995
D. Pro-Competition and Anti-
Monopoly Policies
1. Promote competition.             The Government has indicated its     Criteria and procedures, consistent  The Government will abolish the
intention to abolish the system of   with the privatization plan, have    system of state supply of materials
state  supply  of materials  and    been established to   provide for     and equipment. Supply offices will
equipment.                          the breakup of monopolies (other      be privatized into a network of
than natural monopolies) in the      competing  suppliers; purchasing
process  of corporatization  and     enterprises will be free to buy from
privatization of state enterprises.  any source.
The  Government  will actively
promote  competition   in  the
corporatization and privatization of
farms   and   agroprocessing
enterprises, including discouraging
vertical  integration   and  cross
ownership  which  would  limit
freedom of entry and competition.
2. Preventing and punishing the      As part of the changing role of the  The AMC, jointly with the Ministry   Government  adopts  regulations,
abuse of monopoly power.             State Committee onAnti-monopoly      of Economy, assigned responsibility  and  adopts  and  submits  to
Policy   and   Support  for         to prepare draft legislation and      Parliament   legislation,  to
Entrepreneurship   (AMC),  the      regulations  to  strengthen  pro-     strengthen  pro-competition   and
'Register  of Monopoly  Enter-      competition  and  anti-monopoly      anti-monopoly policies.
prises' is no longer be used as a    policies. The study will cover both
basis for control of prices and     the prevention of monopolies (e.g.,   Government  drafts, adopt, and
profit margins.                     through mergers and acquisitions)    submit to Parliament the Law on
and remedies for the abuse of        Natural  Monopolies  which will
monopoly power.                      provide a legal framework for the
regulation of public utilities and
natural monopolies.
The Government drafts, adopts
and submits to Parliament the law
on  mergers,  acquisitions  and
holding companies.



ANNEX 2
Structural Economic Reforms
Policy Matrix [Page 5]
Objectives                      Actions Previously Taken           Fulfilled Prior Board Presentation      To Be Taken After Aug. 1, 1995
E. Price and Trade Liberalization
1. Removal of price controls and       Most prices were liberalized  in       Prices of most petroleum  products      Natural resource taxation  to be
subsidies which reduce economic        1992. All food subsidies other than    raised to levels close to or above      reviewed and revised in light of
efficiency. (See Social Protection     bread  were eliminated  in  1993.       estimated   intemational   parity      increased prices for crude oil and
section   regarding   targeted         Bread prices were liberalized and      prices.                                 petroleum    products  and   the
assistance  programs  needed  to       subsidies ended in February 1995.                                              anticipated   removal  of  the
compensate for impact upon more        Utility and public transport tariffs   Agreement  on  joint study  (by         temporary   export  taxes  on
vulnerable part of population. See     have been increased and subsidies      Gov't. of Azerbaijan, World Bank        petroleum  products.
Anti-Monopoly  section regarding       for these  activities  significantly    and  IMF) of appropriate  inter-
regulating natural monopolies.)        reduced.                               national parity prices for crude oil    Adopt regulations and submit to
and  petroleum   products  and  a      Parliament   legislation   for
State   orders  (compulsory            reviewof relative ex-refinery prices    competitive   state  procurement;
procurement at fixed prices) were      for petroleum  products.                implement program.
abolished in January 1995.
2. Establish  exchanges in which                                                                                      By the end of 1995 Goverrunent
market prices can be determined                                                                                       willcomplete draft regulations and
for basic commodities.                                                                                                legislation  for the establishment
and   operation   of  commodity
exchanges.
3.Further trade and exchange rate      The  exchange  rate  has  been          Residents  allowed  to  purchase       Export taxes reduced in line with
liberalization to create competitive   unified. Surrender requirements at      foreign exchange for all bona fide     price liberalization.   All export
environtent and establish market       differential   rates   have   been      trade transactions. Non- residents     tariffs and taxes to be eliminated
signals to guide production  and       abolished  (and  replaced  by  a       allowed to remit earnings (after        by the start of 1996.
investment decisions.                  surrender requirement of 30%  at       taxes) and repatriate capital.
the market rate).                                                              Adopt (by end of 1995) permanent
Reduce list of strategic goods still   new tariff schedule with maximum
Scope of bilateral trade agreements    subject to export controls from  17    import tariff of 20%  . (Luxury
(barter)  sharply reduced.   Non-      to 7. No additional export taxes       imports may be subject to excise
strategic exports free of quotas and   will be introduced.                     taxes in addition to import tariff.)
license requirements.
No increase in tariffs for protection  Review  remaining  unit  tariffs;
State needs procurement to fulfill     or balance of payments purposes.        begin phase  out of unit tariffs
bilateral  trade   agreements  at      In implementing any increases for       according to published schedule.
market prices.                         revenue purposes, rates will be set
so that the variation between
Temporary export taxes introduced      products  will be  reduced  and
on petroleum, petroleum  products,     expected revenues will not exceed
and conton.                            1.4 percent  of GDP  in  1994.
Tariffs will be converted to an ad
Imports  are  free  of  quotas,        valorem basis (except for a limited
prohibitions  and  license             number of specific tariffs covering
requirements  (except  for             no  more  than  20  percent  of
armaments and medicines).              imports).



ANNEX 2
Structural Economic Reforms
Policy Matrix [Page 61
Objectives                    Actions Previously Taken         Fulfilled Prior Board Presentation    To be Taken After Aug. 1, 1995
G. Financial Sector Reforms
1.  Further  development  of        Minimum   capital  requirements      Any banks failing to meet the         Progressively  increase  minimum
commercial banking sector through    denominated   in  USS   and          scheduled  increases  in  the        capital requirement for existing
consolidation  of private  banks,    substantially increased.  For new    minimum  capital requirement are     banks to the same level as is
conversion  of state  banks into     banking licenses the minimum now     being merged with other banks or     required for new banks.
commercial banks without special     is equivalent  to  $500,000; for     are forced to close.
preferences,  and  strengthened      existing banks, the minimum  will                                         All banks required to introduce
prudential regulation for banking    be increased in steps to $50,000by   Credit auctions were introduced,     asset classification procedures and
system.                              end-1995.                           initially with 25 percent of total    to make provision for loan losses
ANB refinance provided to private    based on this asset classification.
In  recent  months  number  of       banks through the auction market,
private banks has declined from      while ANB  re-ftnancing to state     Diagnostic studies of state banks
224 to 202 through mergers and       banks provided at interest rate      are  completed;  initiation   of
acquisitions.                        based on the credit auction market.  restructuring   and  privatization
programs.
Based on recent performance and      Since July 1, 1995,all refinancing is
six prudential indices, only those   being provided through the credit    Review preferential tax treatment
with satisfactory indicators will be  auction market.                     given to  Amanat Bank  at the
eligible to participate in the ANB's                                      beginning of 1996and eliminate as
auctions of refinance credit.                                             soon as feasible.
Both state and private banks are
now required to maintain reserves
ratio of 12% against deposits.
Technical assistance from the IMF
and  World  Bank  has  been
requested (to assist in developing
prudential  regulations,  bank
supervision, and the acquisition of
modem banking skills).
Policy of allowing state banks
automatic overdraft at central bank
(while private banks were not
receiving any financing from the
ANB) has been ended. Beginning
in March 1995, 25% of total
refinance credit is being made
available to private banks through
credit auctions. The balance goes
to state banks at a rate determined
by the central bank.
State banks are now organized as
joint stock companies and partially
privatized (51% of stock held by
the Minisuy of Finance).



ANNEX 2
Structural Economic Reforms
Policy Matrix [Page 7]
Objectives                    Acdons Previously Taken          Fulfilled Prior Board Presentation    To Be Taken After Aug. 1, 1995
H. Social Protection
1.Replace consumer subsidies with   Food subsidies, except for bread,                                         Raise benefit levels and extend
targeted cash compensation. This    abolished in 1993. Both budgetary                                         cash  compensation  benefits  to
should   make   possible   more     and implicit subsidies for bread                                          unemployed  workers.   Finance
adequate assistance to the most     abolished  in  February   1995.                                           these  changes  by  improving
vulnerable  groups,  while  still    (Implicit subsidies were provided                                        targeting and streamlining  other
keeping  within  tight budgetary    through making foreign exchange                                            social assistance benefits.
constraints.                        available for imports at especially
favorable rates.)                                                         Evaluate impact on bread prices of
the privatization of bakeries and
Increases in tariffs expected to                                         flour mills.
reduce budgetary impact of public
transport subsidies from  1.4% of                                         Consider  replacing  subsidy  to
GDP in 1994 to half this level in                                         public transport by targeted cash
1995.                                                                    compensadon to workers.
2. Pensions  providing  income                                            Initiate evaluation of Pension Fund  Complete evaluation  of Pension
replacement  levels  that  are                                           finances and benefits.                Fund benefits and finances by end
adequate, but affordable.                                                                                      of 1995. Any reduction in the level
of  the  payroll  tax  will  be
considered only after other reforms
have been implemented. Aspects
to be studied include (i) expanding
payroll tax base to include 14th
salary, (ii) positive real interest
rates on payroll tax arrears, (iii)
reduced   benefits  to   working
pensioners,  (iv)  reducing  the
number of special pensions and
pensions based solely on number of
years worked for persons below
normal  retirement   ages,  (v)
gradually raising the minimum age
at which one becomes eligible for a
pension, and (vi) expanding the
number of years of earnings taken
into  account  in  the  initial
calculation of benefits.
3.  Improve  unemployment            'Job creation"  activities of the                                        Improve collection procedures for
insurance (to meet social needs,    Employment  Fund  have  been                                               EF  following  strengthened
and also to facilitate labor mobility,  terminated.                                                            procedures adopted for PF. Also
in anticipation of the substantial                                                                            consider  ending  unemployment
increase in unemployment expected                                                                              benefits for new entrants to the
as part of economic restructuring).                                                                           labor  force   and   eliminating
collection lag for EF payroll tax.
4. Streamline system of family and                                                                             Reforms to be studied include (i)
sickness allowances.                                                                                          combining general child allowances
with targeted cash compensation,
(ii)  adjusting   matemity  leave
benefits, (iii) shifting cost of sick
leave from Social Protection Fund
to enterprises.



I



ANNEX 3
AZERBAIJAN - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Indicator                                     Actual 1994        Est. 1995          Proj. 1996         Proj. 1997
National Accounts (% of GDP at current market prices and exchange rates)
Gross Domestic Product                                   100.0              100.0              100.0             100.0
Exports (GNFS)                                          56.7               39.0               26.5               21.8
Imports (GNFS)                                          78.0               52.6               31.1               26.0
GDP plus Resource Balance                                121.3              113.6              114.6             104.2
Consumption                                             99.4               91.8               83.2               83.4
Investment (incl. change in stocks)                     22.0               21.8               21.4               20.8
Gross Domestic Saving                                     0.6                8.2               16.8               16.6
Gross National Saving                                     7.1                10.1              15.6               15.4
Memorandum Items:
GDP in millions of current US$                            1212               1748              2541               2958
GNP per capita USS (Atlas method)                         572                514                504                498
Real annual growth rates (%, calcualted from data in 1993 prices)
GDP at market prices                                    -20.0              -9.5              -0.3                0.1
Gross domestic income                                   -28.3             -14.3                3.5               2.0
Real annual per capita growth rates (%; calcualted from data in 1993 prices)
GDP per capita                                         -21.1              -10.6               -1.4              -1.0
Total consumption per capita                           -10.9              -16.7               -8.8               1.8
Private consumption per capita                          -9.6              -17.4               -9.1               2.2
Balance of Paymemts (millions of USS)
Merchandise Exports                                       637                683                673                643
Merchandise Imports (-)                                    814              -861               -739               -718
Net Non-factor Services                                   -35                -59                -52               -50
Resource Balance                                          -212              -238               -117               -125
Net Factor Services                                        -3                -11               -29                -37
Net Current Transfers                                      36                 45                 0                  0
Current Account Balance                                   -179              -204               -146               -162
Net Direct Foreign Investment                              20                 20                21                 21
Net Long-Term Loans                                        49                202                202                209
Net Other Capital (incl. errors & omissions)               112               -80                 0                  0
Change in Net Reserves (- is increase)                      -2                62                -76               -68
Memorandum Items:
Resource Balance (% of GDP at current market prices)     -21.3             -13.6               -4.6               -4.2
Real Annual Growth Rates (calculated from data in 1993 prices)
Merchandise Exports (fob)                               -4.6               -2.6               -3.8              -6.9
Merchandise Imports (cif)                                9.9              -11.0              -12.0              -3.8
NOTES: Data on exports and imports as shares of GDP (at current prices and exchange rates) are strongly influenced by the actual and
expected appreciation of the real exchange rate. Current transfers are excluded from both import payments and transfer receipts in 1996
and 1997. Direct foreign investment in the form of imports for the petroleum expansion program are excluded from both DFI and imports
in 1995,1996 and 1997.



I



Annex 4
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
REHABILITATION CREDIT
Status of Bank Group Operations in Azerbaijan
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of June 30, 1995)
Loan No.   | Fiscal J Purpose                Amount in US$ million           Last ARPP Supervision
j Year  j                          (less cancellations)                 Ratings
IDA     Undisbursed      Development       Implementation
Objectives          Progress
AZ-8282       1995    Petroleum Technical      20.8        20.8              NA                 NA
Assistance
A Z-288       1995    Greater Baku Water       61.0        61.0-             NA                 NA
_ _ _ _ S upply__            _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _
Total:                   81.8-1    81.8
Not yet effective.
Approved on June 28, 1995
B. Status of IFC Operations
(as of June 30, 1995)
Azerbaijan is not yet a member of IFC



ANNEX 5
AZERBAIJAN
REHABILITATION CREDIT
TIMETABLE FOR KEY PROCESSING STEPS
(1)     Time taken to prepare            9 months
(2)     Project prepared by              Government, with assistance of IDA Staff (*)
(3)     Preparation/Pre-Appraisal        Missions in November 1994, February 1995, and April 1995
(4)     Loan Committee                   May 10, 1995
(5)     Appraisal                        May 25-27, 1995
(6)     Negotiations                     July 6-7, 1995
(7)     Board Presentation              August 22, 1995
(8)     Expected Effectiveness           September 1, 1995
(9)     Closing Date                     December 31, 1996
(*) The Task Managers for this project are Zenep Taymas and John A. Holsen. Ms. Taymas undertook the initial
preparation mission in November 1994. Mr. Holsen, accompanied by Qimiao Fan and Egbert Gerken, undertook follow-up
preparation missions in February and April 1995. The work on the privatization program was led by Joe Saba, assisted by
Enna Karlova and Igor Artemiev. Khadir T. Yurukoglu and Yukon Huang are, respectively, the managing Division Chief
and Director for this operation.



IBRD 23696R
-     The boundaries. colors,                                                                                                        a
denom,notions and  ony
other informorion shown
on  this mag  do  not                                        To Tbilisi                                     RUSSIAN            TO Koyokent
imply, on  t e par? of                                                                                                                         
The World Bank Group,                GEORGIA                                Bolaken                                                                                              A  Z  E R B A  I J A  N
ony judgment on the legol             .                               .                              .I_  . 
status of any  territory,                                                           Zogctolo             FLDERlRATION                                 Khudat
or any  endorsement
or acceptance of such         To Tbdlisi
boundaries.                     .     _                                           t                                                _{           |        Khachmas                     *       NATIONAL CAPITAL
\    Gubo                                  -       ROADS
RAILROADS
-    \     Aksscfc-Akstafa                                          Sheki       *      _                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
. Gczpk h<>                                                                                                                                        ---  Z  ----    RIVERS
T TO Dilizhan   .
\ ~~~~~~Gendle .C/Imil 
z                \             ~~~~~~~~~~M,ngechewi  Geoychy 
ARMENIA                                                                                  Y a                                                                                Sum Olt
Yevickh  |        Myusyuslyu      /  Akh                    \
BAKU
LA ARE      -                                        erde                                                                                          \*3K
SEvAN                 .Aghdere                            /     \       _Kurdeirk                          <
Kelbeler                     /                Ahiobedi                                                                                                        lo--/ g S     
\ S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aghdom/~ Sabirrab>; -   \
To Yerevan                                                                 AIi-BcynomN                                                                          Ellet
TURKEY                                                                              Kho
i t- \ /\\ % \ / ~~~~~~~~~~CASPIAN  SEA
Sr oouru                                                                -   Khoivoe d
___    4KV                    _/                           _   t        ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Fyuzu)i  < 2    
a. Nakhchesan                    fn                                                                                         Nehcholo
RUSSIAN
Chulfri .                       i1an                                                                                                         FEDERATION
Mehri
Sea                                  KAZAKHSTAN
:  tdymiy       [                                GEORGI
ISLAMIC  REPUBLIC  OF  IRAN                                                                Lerik         Lenkeron                                                         TtKYS e
525                    so             75                                                                                                                  TURKEY
zLOu~ET E R 5                                                                                                                                                                                                U TURKMENISTAN
KLaO-MrRS I        I        
o   25   50                                                                                                               hTo Rasht                                     ISLAMIC REP
.'__- -.                                                                                                                     IRA, ,OF 6R N                  APRILRA1994
APRIL 1 994









I :I.
:~~~~~~~~ :   ;; 



