Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16627
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Credit No. 2773-AZ)
May 30, 1997
Country Operations 1
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 28, 1997)
Currency Unit       nmanat
I manat   =    US$0004
US$1    =    4,074 manats
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1993 (average)                         92.6
1994 (average)                      1,456.9
1994 (end)                          4,168.0
1995 (end)                          4,580.0
1995 (average)                        4,416
1996 (November)                       4,149
Acronyms and Abbreviations
ANB    -  Azerbaijan National Bank
AIOC    -  Azerbaijan International Operating Company
CAS    -  Country Assistance Strategy
CG    -  Consultative Group
CSCE    -  Commission for security and Cooperation in Europe
DOD    -  Disbursed and Outstanding Debt
EBRD    -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ESAF   -  Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW    -  Economic and Sector Work
EU    -  European Union
FSU    -  Former Soviet Union
FY    -  Fiscal Year
GDP    -  Gross Domestic Product
IBRD    -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA    -  International Development Association
IDP   -  Internally Displaced Person
IFAD    -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC    -  International Finance Corporation
IMF   -  International Monetary Fund
MIGA    -  Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
PSA    -  Production Sharing Agreement
SAC    -  Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR    -  Special Drawing Right
SOCAR    -  State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic
STF   -  Structural Transformation Facility
TA    -  Technical Assistance
TACIS    -  Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States
UNHCR    -  United Nations High Commission for Refugees
USSR    -  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
VAT    -  Value Added Tax
Azerbaijan's Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Director:  Yukon Huang, EC3
Division Chief:  Kadir Tanju Yurukoglu, EC3C1
Responsible Staff:  Zeynep Taymas, EC3C1



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AZERBAIJAN
REHABILITATION CREDIT NO. 2773-AZ
Contents
Preface          .      ................................................................................................................i
Evaluation Summary ...................................................... ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment .                             ......................................................1
A. Project Objectives and Origin                                ...........................................1
B.  Achievement of Objectives                            ......................................................2
C.  Implementation Record  and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................                                  ..7
D. Project Sustainability .......................................................7
E. Bank Performance .......................................................8
F.  Borrower Performance ......................................................8
G.  Assessment of Outcome ......................................................9
H.  Future Operations ......................................................9
I. Key Lessons Learned ......................................................                                            10
Part II. Statistical Tables
Annexes
Mission's Aide-Memoire .................................................                                              A. 1
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR  .................................................                                 A.2
Map IBRD 27426
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AZERBAIJAN
REHABILITATION CREDIT NO. 2773-AZ
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rehabilitation Credit to
Azerbaijan, for which Credit 2773-AZ in the amount of SDR 41.6 million (US$65 million
equivalent) was approved on August 22, 1995 and made effective on November 27, 1995.
This Credit was closed on December 31, 1996 in line with the original date in the Credit
Agreement. As this was a Rehabilitation Credit, rather than a Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC), the disbursements were not tranched. Final disbursement took place on February 13,
1996, at which time the Credit was fiilly disbursed.
The ICR was prepared in the Country Operations I (Azerbaijan Republic, Kazakstan,
Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan) Division of Country Department III
of the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office. Ms. Zeynep Taymas and Mr. John Holsen were
the Task Managers.
Supervision of the Rehabilitation Credit was merged with preparation of the successor
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC), and this ICR was completed during a mission in March 1997
undertaken in conjunction with the Appraisal of the SAC. The report is based upon material in
the project file and discussions held with Borrower staff involved in project implementation. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by reviewing the draft ICR and by preparing
its own evaluation on the project's preparation and implementation.
-I



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Credit 2773-AZ)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Rehabilitation Credit was designed to assist Azerbaijan in its transition from a
dependent command economy to a market economy. During the five years prior to approval of
the Credit, Azerbaijan had experienced war and one of the steepest declines in economic activity
among Former Soviet Union (FSU) republics. Oil production was dropping, the country was
burdened with refugees and displaced persons from the zone of conflict, and trade routes to the
exterior were disrupted. Macroeconomic policies were inadequate to slow the economic decline,
and inflation soared. In 1994, the conflict with Armenia ended with truce, and the Government
moved to attract foreign investment to develop the country's considerable oil potential. By mid-
1994 the Government had taken significant steps to liberalize prices, trade and the foreign
exchange regime, and the World Bank was preparing the first projects it would undertake in
Azerbaijan. By end-1994 the Government was fully engaged in discussions with the IMF and
World Bank to obtain financial support for policy reform.
Project Objectives
2.    The objective of the Credit was to support the Government's program of economic
stabilization and structural reform. The stabilization program launched in 1995 aimed to reduce
inflation and slow the decline in output. Financial stability was the immediate objective, to be
achieved through fiscal consolidation and control of the expansion of money and credit. The
program of structural reforms was set forth in the Government's Memorandum on Economic
Reform Policies (MIERP) of July 1995. It focused on the enterprise sector, including
privatization, enterprise restructuring and corporate governance, private sector development,
procompetition and antimonopoly policies, and the banking sector. Actions in these areas were to
be complemented by further liberalization of the economy and measures to improve the system of
social protection.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Macroeconomic Trends. Progress on stabilization was remarkable, meeting or exceeding
key program targets. The fiscal deficit was cut sharply, and monthly inflation abated steadily in
1995 and 1996, running at less than 1/2 percent per month by the end of the period. The . tominal
exchange rate appreciated, and gross foreign reserves rose. Preliminary estimates suggest that the
decline in real GDP ended in 1996, when a slight growth was registered, following declines of 18
percent and 11 percent in 1994 and 1995, respectively. Stabilization and recovery were facilitated



- iii -
by external factors, notably inflows of direct foreign investment to the oil sector, and oil signature
bonuses, which afforded non-inflationary financing of the budget.
4.    Structural Reform. Implementation of the program of structural reforms was uneven, with
good progress on economic liberalization and some on strengthening the financial sector and
limited achievement in the areas of privatization, private sector development, restructuring of the
public sector, and introduction of a supportive regulatory environment. At end 1996, when the
Rehabilitation Credit was closed, a great deal remained to be done to move the core private sector
reforms forward. Small scale privatization was under way, and much of the groundwork for mass
privatization was prepared. However, no auctions had been conducted under the mass
privatization scheme, legislative or executive approval remained outstanding on operational
measures to regulate commercial, real property and securities transactions, and some government
entities retained commercial functions.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations. and Key Lessons Learned
5.    The underlying obstacle to faster implementation of privatization and private sector
development was the lack of resolution of conflicting interests within government and among key
pressure groups over the direction of reform. Initially the State Property Committee (SPC),
which was established to conduct the process of privatization, lacked the capacity to undertake
the assignment. Strong leadership and a comprehensive overview of the objectives of reform
were needed to cope with the central and local government entities under which enterprises were
organized and which were reluctant to change the status quo. Direct intervention by the President
in July 1996 helped break the log jam, and implementation improved thereafter.
6.    It can be concluded that measures on some important reforms were taken in a timely
manner, that the groundwork for others was prepared, and that the stepped up activity on
privatization in the last half of 1996 brought adequate progress. The overall operation is judged
"satisfactory" on the basis of its contribution to macroeconomic stabilization through
noninflationary budgetary and balance-of-payment support, and in view of the facts that a
constructive dialogue was initiated and maintained between the Bank and Azerbaijan authorities,
and that both.Bank and Borrower continued to move ahead with the reform program when the
Rehabilitation Credit was closed. 1/ With respect to the future, the success of the stabilization
efforts and the prospects for economic recovery should facilitate completion of ongoing measures
and implementation of a strengthened reform program, which has now been prepared by
Government. The principal risk will be the possibility of the erosion of commitment to the reform
program as development of the oil sector proceeds.
7.    The Bank's experience with the Rehabilitation Credit to Azerbaijan is broadly in line with
its experience in other FSU countries where it has supported the transition from command to
In May 1996, when the Forn 590 classified this operation as unsatisfactory, the implementation of reforms had stalled
(although there were no policy reversals). In August 1996, President Aliev, dissatisfied with slow progress in structural
reforms, intervened through a major Cabinet reshuffling. Since then, the pace of reforms accelerated, and continues
unabated.



- iv -
market economies. The lessons learned are not "new or startling;" however, they are guided by
the set of circumstances that pertain to Azerbaijan. The main lessons from the Rehabilitation
Credit are:
a) The transition from a command to a competitive and growing market economy is a complex
process that takes substantial time and effort to implement, that cannot be achieved by "a
stroke of the pen" and that requires a comprehensive understanding of the economic and
social fabric of the country.
b) Strong commitment on the part of the Borrower is essential to the success of adjustment
operations. However, commitment alone may not be enough to keep the implementation of
exacting reforms on track. Tranche conditionality is an instrument to concentrate minds on
getting the work done.
c) The Bank's contribution is in project design and sharing the lessons of experience as much as
in providing financial resources. A closely knit, cohesive core team of national officials with
whom Bank staff can work is essential to make the Bank's assistance effective. Such a team
should have the capacity to see the interrelationships of the components of reform programs
and to think in both strategic and operational terms.
d) Many of the components of reform programs require technical expertise. Officials who
manage reform programs should not hesitate to use it, especially when access is funded by
donor agencies. Expatriate staff must be prepared to take on training as well as advisory and
operational responsibilities.
e) Now that a resident mission has been established in Azerbaijan, it could take on more of the
monitoring and supervision of adjustment lending. However, supervision of policy-based
Bank operations is staff-intensive, requiring the input of staff across a broad range of
macroeconomic and sectoral fields. To cover these fields adequately leadership, guidance and
feedback will continue to be needed from headquarters staff.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AZERBAIJAN
REHABILITATION CREDIT (NO. 2773-AZ)
Part L. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Project Objectives and Origin
1.    The Rehabilitation Credit was designed to assist Azerbaijan in its transition to a market
economy through support of the Government's program of economic stabilization and structural
reforms, described in the Memorandum on Economic Reform Policies (MERP) sent to the World
Bank in July, 1995. It was designed to provide non-inflationary budget and balance-of-payment
support during the initial phase of the stabilization program. The program placed emphasis on
reform of the enterprise sector, including privatization, enterprise restructuring and corporate
governance, private sector development, procompetition and antimonopoly policies and the
banking sector. Actions in these areas were to be complemented by further liberalization of price
and trade policies and by strengthening the system of social protection.
2.    Background. During the five years preceding IDA approval of the Rehabilitation Credit,
Azerbaijan experienced war and one of the steepest declines in economic activity among transition
economies. By 1994 GDP had fallen to less than half its level at the beginning of the decade. / A
particularly distressing trend was the drop in oil production, owing to deteriorating infrastructure,
outdated production practices and depletion of old fields. Meanwhile, domestic political
instability and external shocks exacerbated economic decline. In the early 19-90s Azerbaijan was
mired in a costly conflict and, in the aftermath, burdened with a large population of refugees and
displaced persons. The fighting in Nagorno-Karabagh ended with truce in May 1994, but the
economy was subsequently handicapped by conflict in neighboring Chechnya, which disrupted the
route that handled some 70 percent of Azerbaijan's foreign trade. During the period preceding the
Rehabilitation Credit declining exports and limited capital inflows weakened the balance of
payments, and gross official reserves were negligible. Lax financial policies, characterized by
large fiscal deficits and central bank money creation, fueled inflation and added to macroeconomic
instability.
3.    Although macroeconomic policy was inadequate to cope with the difficulties confronting
the Azerbaijani economy, by mid-1994 the Government had taken steps to open the economy and
liberalize prices, trade and foreign exchange transactions. In 1994 the Government moved to
enhance longer term economic prospects by awarding development rights for three oil fields to a
consortium of 11 international oil companies. The production sharing agreement was ratified in
December 1994 and called for US$7.5 billion in total investments over 15 years. Towards the end
I Index of GDP(1989=100): 1990 =88.3, 1994 =40.8



- 2 -
of 1994 the Government entered into discussions with the IMF and the World Bank to formulate
programs of financial stabilization, economic recovery and structural reform.
4.    Origins and Sequencing: Preparation of the Rehabilitation Credit began in November
1994, with two follow up missions leading to appraisal in May, 1995 and approval in August.
Concurrently, the IMF had entered into discussions with the Azerbaijani authorities on a
stabilization program to be supported under the Systemic Transformation Facility (STF), which
was approved in April, 1995. Preparation of the Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
(approved by IDA in July 1995) was also under way, with components to provide technical
support for reforms agreed in the Rehabilitation Credit. In November, 1995, the IMF approved a
successor stabilization program supported by a Standby Arrangement for Azerbaijan, and at end
1996 approved a medium term program for use of resources under the Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) combined with Extended Fund Facility resources (EFF). The Bank
began preparatory work on a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) during 1996 well before the
closing date of the Rehabilitation Credit, and an IDA mission to appraise a SAC visited
Azerbaijan in March 1997.
5.    The Rehabilitation Credit was fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
discussed by the Board on April 20, 1995. The Board subsequently (August 1996) reviewed an
updated CAS for Azerbaijan, which extends and refines the strategy adopted under the
Rehabilitation Credit to support the country's economic transition. The updated CAS gives new
emphasis to the economic and social consequences and policy options arising from the
prospective development of Azerbaijan's oil potential.
6.    The Rehabilitation Credit is the first IDA operation in Azerbaijan to be fully disbursed and
closed. The complexity of structural reform in transition economies and the close
interrelationship of the IMF and World Bank programs justify evaluating the operation in terms of
its contribution to the process of reform, which is ongoing and which the Bank is continuing to
support.
B. Achievement of Objectives
7.    Macroeconomic Objectives The Government's stabilization program, launched in early
1995, aimed to reduce inflation and slow the decline of output. Financial stability was set as the
key immediate objective and the expansion of money and credit was brought under control. A
precondition of this was fiscal consolidation, which was achieved primarily by sharply
compressing expenditures. Progress on macroeconomic stability has been rapid, meeting or
exceeding key program targets, and by the end of 1996 the basis for economic recovery was
strengthened.
a) The general government fiscal deficit was cut from 11.4 percent of GDP in 1994 to
4.3 percent in 1995 and under 3 percent (estimated) in 1996.
b) Monthly inflation, which had been running at 55 percent in the last quarter of 1994, declined
sharply in the first quarter of 1995. Monthly price increases remained in the low single digits
throughout the remainder of 1995 and in 1996 averaged less than 1/2 percent per month.



- 3 -
throughout the remainder of 1995 and in 1996 averaged less than 1/2 percent per month.
During January - August 1996 the nominal exchange rate began to appreciate against the
dollar. These developments helped restore confidence in the currency, as evidenced by a
decline in the velocity of money and an increase in private holdings of manats.
c) By mid-1996 gross foreign reserves covered 2 1/2 months of imports (excluding oil
consortium operations).
d) After falling sharply from the beginning of 1994 to mid-1995, official real wages began to
recover in the second half of 1995.2/ In the twelve month period up to September 1996 the
average real wage was 13 percent higher compared with the preceding twelve month period.
e) Following declines in GDP of 18 and 11 percent in 1994 and 1995, preliminary estimates for
1996 indicate a bottoming out of the economic decline (estimated real growth of over 1
percent).
8.    The combined financial and technical support of the Fund and Bank were important in
fostering Azerbaijan's progress to recovery in 1996. The IDA credit provided quick disbursing
balance of payments assistance needed to support the macroeconomic program. In turn, the STF
and SBA provided a macroeconomic framework for the reforms supported by IDA's
Rehabilitation Credit. At the same time, external factors also contributed importantly to the
positive outcome. Inflows of direct foreign investment associated with oil field development
expanded economic opportunities, strengthened the nominal exchange rate and helped bring down
inflation. Oil signature bonuses afforded noninflationary financing of the budget and supported
the balance of payments.
9.    Structural Reforms. The Rehabilitation Credit has been successful in initiating the process
of structural reforms, and reaching an agreement on the design of those reforms. There has been,
however, an initial inertia in actual implementation. Action on some key policies was not taken
until six months before the closing of the operation, and implementation of related program
components was delayed about a year. Parliamentary elections held in November 1995 absorbed
the attention of senior policy makers, while there was some ambiguity and uncertainty about the
legal framework governing property rights and business transactions. IIowever, the underlying
obstacle was the lack of resolution of conflicting interests within government and among key
pressure groups concerning the future direction of reform. In July, 1996 the President intervened
directly through a government reshuffle that replaced the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister
in charge of privatization, and the Minister of Economy. Ultimately important steps on some
reforms were taken in a timely manner, the analytical basis for others was laid down, and the
stepped up activity in the last half of 1996 brought adequate progress on others. Paragraphs 11 -
22 discuss the progress that has been made on the major reforms described in the Government's
MERP. Annex Table 5 on "Key Indicators for Project Implementation" summarizes performance
with respect to the specific measures in the "Policy Matrix" which accompanied the MERP.
2 Based on a World Bank survey, the average monthly compensation inAzerbaijan in 1995 was estimated at US$50, compared to the officially recorded wage ofUS$13.
Preliminary figrs for 1996 indicated an average official wage of US$20 and monthly labor compensation of US$65.(Source, IM1F, Azerbaijan Republic - Recent Economic
Developments SMN96/301, December 13,1996)



- 4 -
10.   The Government introduced most domestic and foreign trade liberalization measures
supported under the Rehabilitation Credit. Domestic prices had been liberalized in the early
1990s. Export quotas were abolished in early 1995. A specific tax on strategic exports levied on
the price differential between export and domestic prices had limited effect in 1996, when the
differential narrowed. In December 1996 the ex ante export contract registration scheme was
eliminated after considerable delay. Quantitative restrictions and licenses on imports have been
abolished, while most customs duties have been converted to an ad valorem basis. Azerbaijan
maintains a flexible exchange rate regime with the official rate determined by auction and
unrestricted cashing of foreign exchange in foreign exchange bureaus. By the end of 1996 the
Government assigned responsibilities to pursue membership in the World Trade Organization
(WTO). Notwithstanding the scope of the liberalization measures, the culture of control has been
resistant to change, as evidenced by the continued existence at the end of the program period of
public entities engaged in commercial activities.
11.   A comprehensive program of privatization and private sector development was the central
focus of the Government's program of economic reforms and the design of the Rehabilitation
Credit. Although the "shadow" economy and de facto private ownership were developing in
response to the liberalization measures described above, acceleration of the transition to a market
economy required proactive policies to dismantle state ownership of productive and commercial
enterprises in agriculture, industry and services and to put in place a coherent and transparent
regulatory environment. These policies would level the playing field for private enterprise and
farmers, help narrow the focus of the administration to its primary role of support for and delivery
of public services, and build the confidence of private investors in the Government's commitment
to market reforms. It was recognized by the top leadership that privatization would be
unappealing to the vested interests in central and local administrations who benefited from the
system of rents and subsidies that were the corollary of state-owned enterprise.
12.   As early as 1993, the Government adopted a law authorizing privatization of state assets
and established a State Property Committee (SPC) to undertake ownership transfer. However,
formulation of a program to implement the law did not begin until 1995. By September 1995 the
privatization program for 1995-97 had been designed, reviewed by Bank staff, and approved by
Parliament (RC condition of effectiveness).
13.   The program stipulates two main methods of privatization: cash auctions for small scale
privatization and a combination of voucher and cash auctions for medium and large scale
privatization. Legislation for small scale privatization was completed in March, 1996, but
between March and July only about 200 small enterprises were sold at auction. Difficulties arose
in two areas. First, operators of the small scale enterprises regarded themselves as de facto
owners, a status which was generally accepted, including by Government. With participation
limited to one bidder, the "auction" became a bargaining process in which the privatization
authority sought to establish politically acceptable prices, while the bidder tried to pay as little as
possible to privatize his "own" enterprise. Second, the ministries, local governments and state
concerns under which enterprises were organized often had an interest in preserving the status
quo. Since the appointed management arranged finance and retained enterprise assets and
records, they were in a position to delay initiation of the auction process. In addition the SPC had



little or no capacity to undertake the assignment. The Government did not and the SPC either
could not or would not marshall the necessary resources.
14.   Following the reshuffle of July, two state concerns (State Service Concern and the State
Concern for Trade and Local Industries) were abolished, and the small scale enterprises under
their control were set for privatization. Criteria for setting the reserve action price in the auctions
were revised, leading to lower prices. Thus the SPC formalized the existing owners. The process
was neither transparent nor surprising and objectionable to the population.
15.   The steps in the program for medium and large scale privatization were: (a) agreement on
the distribution of subscription rights between employees, the public, and investment funds (done
prior to Board approval); (b) selection and corporatization of the enterprises; (c) preparation and
distribution of prospectuses and vouchers; and (d) conduct of "rounds" of auctions in which
batches of enterprises would be brought to auction. Most of the preparatory work was scheduled
to be done by end-1995 but was delayed until end-1996. By then standard corporate charters
were drafted; 50 or so enterprises were identified for corporatization; and by March 1997 about
half of these were registered as corporations and given priority for a first round auction.
Vouchers were printed and ready for distribution by March 1997. This preparatory work was
essential but minimal. Many more enterprises need to be corporatized; the authorities have still
not conducted an auction round, and they remained cautious about resolving a number of
practical problems before moving ahead. Moreover, while the SPC's capacity increased, the
Government still did not give it the needed administrative cooperation and financial support.
16.   A limited number of large enterprises (restricted by law to no more than 10 percent of
enterprises to be privatized) were to be privatized through commercial tender. Regulations,
standard procedures and model documents (of low quality) to guide the tender process have been
finalized, but implementation of this phase of privatization has not been given high priority.
17.   Progress in land privatization accelerated after adoption of the Land Reform Law in
August 1996. The law grants private ownership of land, including the rights to sell, bequeath,
inherit, and use land as collateral. The distribution of land actually began before the law was
adopted. Farmers were given plots under a user-right arrangement without title, and about 3,200
farms were established. As of mid-November 1996, this number increased to 5,300. Although
farmers were given demarcated plots, only about half of them received ownership certificates and
new farms were not yet registered. An important outstanding issue was the status of land under
commercial and industrial establishments. Clarification was needed to complete enterprise
valuations and determine access to mortgage finance.
18.   Concerning the legal framework several general laws to support a functioning market
economy have been passed by Parliarnent to define property rights, legal forms of enterprise,
bankruptcy, and investment activities. Preparation of legislation and decrees to implement some
of the laws was completed during the program period, but they were not issued at end- 1996.
Some implementing legislation has been drafted but not yet approved by Government covering
inter alia the regulation of securities markets, depository institutions and securities registry.
Although a new modem Civil Code is being drafted, the old Soviet era Civil Code is still in place.
The result is an uncertain legal environment for market transactions.



- 6 -
19.   The overall objective of financial restructuring is to develop a viable, competitive private
banking sector. The Rehabilitation Credit supported three components: (a) private banks, which
accounted for only about 10 percent of banking activity, had multiplied excessively, and many
were financially weak or too small to remain viable. The strategy has been to encourage a
reduction in the number of private banks through consolidation or closure by raising capital
requirements, tightening loan loss provisions, and strengthening bank supervision. During the
program period the number of banks declined from 265 to 160 and has been reduced further since
then; (b) the four state-owned banks, each of which had specialized functions, all faced severe
problems of liquidity, solvency and profitability. To avoid an incipient banking crisis, a first step
was to restrict their operations narrowly. Subsequently, owing to their specialized mandates, a
detailed diagnosis, audit and action plan was needed for each. This work has been completed, and
implementation of the action plans has been incorporated in the upcoming SAC; (c) for all banks
the program called for the introduction of a standardized system of asset classification upon which
to base appropriate provisions for loan losses. This was completed, and loan loss reserves are
being adjusted.
20.   Efforts to maintain the social safety net were satisfactory, given the reality of fiscal
austerity. A cash compensation scheme was introduced in 1995 to help offset the impact of the
elimination of bread subsidies. Direct and indirect bread subsidies had amounted to 2.9 percent of
GDP in 1994, compared with cash compensation estimated at 2.7 percent and 2 percent,
respeztively, in 1995 and 1996. The decline in 1996 reflects some improvement in targeting
benefits, although compensations still cover a wide range of population. The ratio of the average
unemployment benefit to the average wage stood at only 6 percent in 1995; increases in the
benefit level in 1996 doubled the ratio to 12 percent. The financial position of the pension system
remained weak. Statutory pension levels were raised in 1995 and 1996, but the increases were
not sufficiently funded, resulting in an accumulation of arrears by end- 1995. Even with partial
repayment of these arrears, pension expenditures rose to only 2.2 percent of GDP in the first three
quarters of 1996. Efforts to move the pension system to a more sustainable footing by reducing
benefit levels for working pensioners and increasing the retirement age have been delayed in the
face of political resistance. The Bank made an important contribution to the understanding of
poverty in Azerbaijan with the Poverty Assessment dated June 28, 1996 3
21.   In one area the reforms supported under the RC were modified in the course of
implementation. The Bank did not pursue the "isolation" exercise, which proposed a working
group to formulate action plans for the liquidation, restructuring and/or privatization of the largest
"problem" state enterprises. It was felt that this would distract from the primary goal of fostering
the transition to a market economy and that implementation of the overall program of reforms
would address the issue. In another area the program of reforms was itself deficient, namely the
omission of proposals to reorient the objectives and functions of government ministries whose
commercial entities were to be spun off. Measures to support the adoption by Government of
market oriented regulatory functions are also being addressed under SAC.
3Wcorld Bank report #15601 AZ, Azerbaian Povertv Anent June 28, 1996.



- 7 -
22.   Summary. The reforms supported by the Rehabilitation Credit were accelerated in the half
year prior to the closing date, especially in the areas of small scale privatization, and financial
sector reform, but the success of the operation in achieving stated reform objectives during the
program period must be judged inadequate. This judgment is based primarily on the status of the
core program components, in particular progress on mass privatization, at end 1996; and the
absence of legislative and/or executive approval of laws, decrees, and regulations to implement
private sector development. This relatively unfavorable judgment should be placed, however,
within the context of a virtually irrelevant reform timetable, as initially drawn. On the other hand,
when judged against a more flexible standard of progress in the process of economic reform the
Operation can be considered satisfactory. This conclusion takes account of the fact that it was the
first policy based operation that the Bank has undertaken in Azerbaijan, that a constructive
dialogue was initiated and maintained between the Bank and the Azerbaijan authorities, that there
were no policy reversals, and that both the Bank and Borrower remain committed and have
moved forward with the reform program. Moreover, the Credit has been successful in providing
noninflationary budgetary and balance-of-payment support during the difficult phase of a strong
stabilization program.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
23.   In terms of achievement of the economic reform objectives, the implementation record is
discussed above. The major factor accounting for the acceleration of reforms in the six months
prior to closing was the change in top management of the State Property Committee, referred to
in para. 9. Disbursement, including financing retroactive to payments made after May 31, 1995,
was rapid and ahead of the original forecast by six months. The last disbursement took place on
February 28, 1995, three months after effectiveness. Issues related to the performance of the
Bank and Borrower are discussed below.
D. Project Sustainability
24.   The basic issue with respect to "sustainability" is the overall sustainability of economic
reforms in Azerbaijan. The abatement of inflation and evidence of economic recovery suggest a
moderately improving outlook for output and incomes in the medium term. Normally this would
facilitate the reform process by making it easier to mobilize budget resources for much needed
investment in economic and social infrastructure and the social safety net. However, the picture is
clouded in Azerbaijan by the uncertain impact of expectations for the expansion of oil
development and production. There is the superficial risk that optimistic expectations will weaken
the commitment to reform. This could happen if only a few individuals who happen to hold
positions of responsibility conclude that the advent of oil revenues justifies a relaxation of the
discipline of maintaining an efficient market economy. There is the more fundamental risk that
economic distortions associated with the rapid rise in oil revenues, particularly the potential
erosion of the competitiveness of local agriculture and light manufacturing, will be tackled with
too little too late. The Azerbaijani population has endured a long period of sharply lower real
incomes. It appears more urgent than ever that economic reform be strengthened to support
development of the non-oil economy and to broaden participation in the benefits of growth.



-8-
E. Bank Performance
25.   The Bank's overall performance in connection with the Rehabilitation Credit was fully
"satisfactory" and consistent with the Bank's desire to provide experienced staff to make
significant contributions to the policy dialogue and project design. There was close cooperation
with Fund Staff and the Azerbaijani authorities during preparation and monitoring of the reform
program. On the Bank side two issues merit consideration with respect to the slow pace of
implementation of the program. First, although the Rehabilitation Credit was clearly the
appropriate instrument for the transfer of resources to support the stabilization of the economy,
the lack of conditionality inhibited its effectiveness in accelerating reforms. It may be argued that
conditional tranche release would not have sped up implementation, but it most likely would have
triggered intensive dialogue on the status of the program and, if necessary, on available options
for its revision. Second, it is apparent that the time frame for the reforms was ambitious. This did
not prove to be a serious flaw, since implementation of the reforms is continuing.
F. Borrower Performance
26.   The Borrower's overall performance with respect to the Rehabilitation Credit was
"satisfactory." As indicated above (Section B), the authorities remained committed to the
program of reforms, and while implementation was slow, there were no reversals in policy or
objectives. During preparation and in subsequent supervision cooperation between the authorities
and Bank staff was good. There had been no IDA lending prior to 1995 (calendar year), and the
Rehabilitation Credit was one of four operations approved during that year; it was also the first
operation linked to economic policy reform. The dialogue covered new ground with respect to
Azerbaijan's circumstances and policy objectives, the complexity of transition to a market
economy, the objectives of Bank support for policy reform, and the nuts and bolts of
implementation.
27.   Two issues of sufficient importance to bring to the Borrower's attention arose during the
course of implementing the Rehabilitation Credit.
a) There did not appear to be a cohesive, closely knit reform team in government. Top officials
in different branches of government or the administration, such as the Offices of the President
or of the Prime Minister, SPC and ANB had a good grasp of the program but could not
devote their time to routine issues of implementation. On the other hand, lower level officials
responsible for day-to-day implementation were not always certain of the logic behind their
activities. Some central entity or group, formally constituted or ad hoc, with a comprehensive
overview of the interrelationships among reform program components appears to be needed.
b) As a corollary to the above, there was and is an absence of strategic thinking about the
choices open to economic policy and the future direction of reform. The main preoccupation
appears to be "vertical thinking" within institutions, i.e., the advantages or disadvantages of
taking or delaying action within the administrative hierarchy. The lack of a broader vision is



- 9 -
especially striking in a country which saw the steepest drop in real income of any FSU
Republic and whose economic prospects could now be among the brightest.
28.   A third matter concems the use of technical assistance. The Institution Building Technical
Assistance Project funded by IDA contains quite detailed outlines~ ofjob descriptions for
technical assistance to help implement various components of the program funded under the
Rehabilitation Credit. The Governent has made use of some of the TA but not much.
Reservations about the availability, cost and effectiveness of technical assistance in Azerbaijan are
justifiable, but the slow pace of reforms in some areas suggests that this issue be revisited.
G. Assessment of Outcome
29.   The outcome in terms of economic stabilization and recovery was "highly satisfactory."
The desired impact of the operation on the budget and balance of payments was realized through
disbursement of the credit, and in terms of timely support for macroeconomic stabilization it was
completely successful. The contribution of the operation to structural reform is less certain. The
credit was fully disbursed six months before the acceleration in the implementation of reforms
began. Since the Rehabilitation Credit was not tranched, it is likely that the stimulus to speed up
reform was prompted more by the prospect of losing future support than by success in obtaining
past support. Even after the speed up, most of the mass privatization program remained to be
implemented at the end of the program period, and many measures designed to support the
development of the private sector were outstanding. Notwithstanding the slow progress on
reforms, "summing" the assessments of the outcomes of the macroeconomic and structural reform
components of the Rehabilitation Credit leads to a "satisfactory" judgment on the overall
outcome. This conclusion allows for the fact that it was the first policy based operation that the
Bank has undertaken in Azerbaijan, that a constructive dialogue was initiated and has been
maintained between the Bank and Azerbaijan authorities, that there were no policy reversals, and
that both the Bank and Borrower remain committed, and have moved forward with the reform
program. This judgment must also be seen in the context of an overly ambitious reform schedule,
whose targets proved to be difficult to meet within the "life" of the Rehabilitation Credit.
H. Future Operations
30.   The policy decisions and actions of the next two to three years will shape Azerbaijan's
future. Consolidating the gains achieved on stabilization remains an important priority on the
agenda. The problems which stalled rapid execution of privatization require urgent resolution,
and the Government's program needs to be brought to a satisfactory conclusion. At the end of
1996 most private business fell outside the reach of the broad legislative framework passed to
support an efficient market economy. Murky boundaries on property rights and their protection,
clarification of the regulatory framework for securities, contracts and commercial transactions and
rehabilitation of a shaky banking system -- all are areas on which preparatory work has been
4 World Bank, Technical Annex to Appraisal Report No.T-6567-AZ, A2erbaijan Reoublic. Institution Building Technical Assistance ProiMct



- 10-
started but execution has lagged. As the disengagement of the State from commercial activities
moves ahead, it is urgent that a modem regulatory system to prevent abuse and support an
efficient market economy be introduced. The foreign investment and capital to modernize the
operations of local enterprises and ensure their competitiveness is likely to be put off until the
business climate has been strengthened in these legal and regulatory areas. The recent assessment
of poverty in Azerbaijan and its evaluation of choices to address the needs of vulnerable groups is
a valuable, comprehensive source for developing social policy on financial transfers and the
development of health and human resources. It merits the full attention of government authorities
responsible for these matters.
31.   The Government has little enough time to put these measures in place before the benefits
and disruptions of the expansion of oil operations begin to make their way through Azerbaijan's
economic system. If the mechanisms for the functioning of a healthy market economy and the
broad participation of the population in economic growth are not in place, and if and when oil
revenues begin to rise, it is no exaggeration to suggest that chaotic economic and social forces
could be released.
32.   The Bank Group's medium term program of assistance to Azerbaijan has been designed in
consultation with Government and other donors to support the Government's efforts to introduce
policies and programs that foster the use of Azerbaijan's oil potential to achieve sustainable
growth and poverty reduction. In September 1996 a memorandum on Country Assistance
Strategy was reviewed by the Board, and a mission to appraise the first Structural Adjustment
Mission visited Azerbaijan in March 1997. Emphasis in project lending will be placed on farm
privatization, irrigation, health, and reconstruction of war-damaged areas2'
I. Key Lessons Learned
33.   The Bank's experience with the Rehabilitation Credit to Azerbaijan is broadly in line with
its experience in other FSU republics where the Bank has supported the transition from command
to market economies. The lessons learned are not "new or startling," but they are guided by the
set of circumstances that pertain to Azerbaijan in particular as presented in the foregoing sections
of this report. The key lessons from the Rehabilitation Credit are:
a) The transition from a command to a competitive and growing market economy is a complex
process that takes substantial time and effort to implement, that cannot be achieved by "a
stroke of the pen" and that requires a comprehensive understanding of the economic and
social fabric of the country.
b) Strong commitment on the part of the Borrower is essential to the success of adjustment
operations. However, commitment alone may not be enough to keep the implementation of
exacting reforms on track. The Rehabilitation Credit proved to be the right instrument to get
5 World Bank, Memorandum on a Country Assistance Strategv for Azerbaijan. Aug. 27, 1996, Report No. 15948 AZ



- 11 -
reforms designed and started, but not effective in ensuring continued implementation.
Tranche conditionality is an instrument to concentrate minds on getting the work done.
c) The Bank's contribution is in project design and sharing the lessons of experience as much as
in providing financial resources. A closely knit, cohesive core team of national officials with
whom Bank staff can work is essential to make the Bank's assistance effective. Such a team
should have the capacity to see the interrelationships of the components of reform programs
and to think in both strategic and operational terms.
d) Many of the components of reform programs require highly specialized technical expertise, for
example in law, securities markets, accounting, pension fund management, social welfare, etc.
Such expertise is scarce and costly, in relative terms even in high income countries where it is
generally available. Managers of reform programs should not hesitate to utilize such expertise
when access is funded by donor agencies. Expatriate staff must be prepared to take on
training as well as advisory and operational responsibilities.
e) Supervision of policy-based Bank operations is staff intensive, requiring the input of staff
across a very broad range of macroeconomic and sectoral fields. Now that a resident mission
has been established in Azerbaijan, it can take on more of the monitoring and supervision of
progress of adjustment lending. However, leadership, guidance and feedback will continue to
be needed from headquarters staff.



Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:       Summary of Assessments
Table 2:       Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:       Project Timetable
Table 4*:      Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6*:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7*:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:      Project Costs
Table 8B:      Project Financing
Table 9*:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11*:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:      Bank Resources: Missions
* Standard Tables 4, 6, 7 and 9 are not included because they are not applicable to this Rehabilitation Credit. Table 11 is not
included because there have been no instances of non-compliance with Operational Manual Statements.



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial      Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                      /
Sector Policies                    V
Financial Objectives                /
Institutional Development                            V
Physical Objectives                                                                   V/
Poverty Reduction                                    V
Gender Issues                                                                          /
Other Social Objectives                              /
Environmental Objectives                                                               V
Public Sector Management                             V
Private Sector Development                           V
Other (specify)                                                                       V/
B. Proiect Sustainability            Likelv                   Unlikely                 Uncertain
V/
C. Bank Performance                   Highlv
satisfactory            Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                                               V/
Preparation Assistance                                      V/
Appraisal                                                    V
Supervision                                                  VI
D. Borrower Performance               Highly                                            Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
Preparation                                         V/
Implementation                                                        V
Covenant Compliance                                  V
E. Assessment of Outcome                                 V/



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                       Purpose                  Year of         Status
approval
Sane time as Rehabilitation Credit:
1. Institution Building/Technical    Privatization and enterprise reform;  FY96       Under
Assistance (IBTA) Loan          macroeconomic management; financial               implementation
sector; legal and regulatory framework.
Following operations
1. Farm Privatization           Support for privatizing land and other  FY97          Under
farm assets                                      implementation
2. SAC I                        Continue support for reform programs   FY98         Completed
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned              Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)              11/94                    11/94
Preparation                                             02/95                    02/95
Appraisal                                               05/95                    05/95
Negotiations                                            07/95                    07/95
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)            07/95                    07/95
Board Presentation                                      08/95                    08/95
Signing                                                 09/95                    09/95
Effectiveness                                           09/95                    11/95
Project Completion                                      12/96                    12/96
Loan Closing                                            12/96                    12/96
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY96
Appraisal estimate                         61,400
Actual                                     61,419
Actual as % of estimate                     100%
Date of final disbursement      February 13, 1996



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
L Key implementation indicators in the President's Report
1. Privatization
The "Structural Reforms Policy Matrix" accompanying the "Memorandum on Economic Reform
Policies" (MERP) called for the design and implementation of a broad-based privatization program,
including completion of privatization of small scale enterprises by end 1996, finalization of preparations
for the auction of medium and large enterprises by end 1995, and the initiation of voucher auctions
during 1996. It also called for approval of legislation to establish a Securities and Exchange
Commission and the regulation of stock exchanges and investment funds. Progress on these measures
was delayed until mid-1996. However, by end 1996 small scale privatization was well advanced and the
preparatory work for mass privatization was in progress. Some regulations to organize securities
transactions were drafted but not yet adopted; work on designing a SEC was incomplete.
2. Corporate Governance and Enterprise Restructuring
The "Policy Matrix" called for (1) establishment of a government agency to take charge of the
restructuring of the largest recipients of financial transfers, (2) rationalization of State investment in
public utilities and inclusion of such expenditure in the budget, and (3) increases in public utilities tariffs
to 100 percent of operating costs. The government agency was not established. However, SOE
restructuring was facilitated (and the sector was downsized) by the loss of "soft" financing to SOEs, as
the state budget was compressed, subsidies eliminated, and access to bank credit was placed on harder,
commercial terms. Water, gas, and electricity rates were raised in 1996 but fell short of cost recovery
levels. Independent regulatory agencies for public utilities remain to be set up.
3. Private Sector Development
The "Policy Matrix" called for legislation to define property rights in residential and commercial real
estate, deregulation to remove barriers to entry of new firms, and establishment of systems for the
resolution of commercial disputes and the enforcement of contracts. Progress was made on property
rights, but uncertainties needed to be resolved with respect to the rights and valuation of land under
enterprises and the management of "common" areas in condominiums and cooperatives. In general the
laws and regulations drafted to govern business and financial transactions were weak and had not yet
been adopted.
4. Procompetition and Antimonopoly Policies
The "Policy Matrix" called for abolishing the system of state supply of materials and equipment and the
adoption of legislation to strengthen pro-competition and anti-monopoly policies. In July 1996, two
state concerns (State Service Concern and State Concern for Trade and Local Industries) were abolished
and enterprises under their control set for privatization. A law on procurement was passed and reviewed
by the Bank. However, a number of ministries still controlled parts of the distribution and marketing
channels. Restructuring these ministries and spinning off the commercial entities under them are included
in the SAC I program.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
5. Price and Trade Liberalization
By the end of 1996 the price, trade and exchange rate regimes were mostly liberalized and
compatible with the needs of a market economy. There were no tariff barriers which constituted a
significant impediment to efficient foreign trade. However, there were still privileges accorded to
state-owned foreign trade organizations. As noted above, corporatization and privatization of this
sector will be tackled in the strengthened program of reforms to be supported by SAC 1.
6. Financial Sector Reforms
The actions called for to strengthen the banking system were implemented: (a) minimum capital
requirements increased, (b) asset classification procedures introduced and loan loss provisions
adjusted, (c) diagnostic studies and audits of state banks completed. Weak private banks have been
liquidated or merged and the number of banks has been substantially reduced. Plans of action to
dismantle the state banks have been drawn up and will be implemented under the new reform
program.
7. Social Protection
There have been modest improvements in targeting benefits, compensating the termination of bread
subsidies and increasing the unemployment benefit. Action plans to improve conditions for displaced
persons and refugees have been formulated. The pension system remains weak and in need of
restructuring. The World Bank "Poverty Assessment" provides a comprehensive review of poverty
in Azerbaijan and options to address the situation.



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Item                                Local  Foreign   Total           Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                  costs    costs
1. Foreign Exchange Component                   61.4       61.4                  61.4       61.4
Total                                           61.4       61.4                   61.4      61.4
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Item                                Local  Foreign   Total           Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                  costs    costs
1. IDA                                   ---    61.4       61.4          ---     61.4       61.4
2. Cofinancing                           ---      ---        ---          ---      ---        ---
3. Other external sources                ---      ---       ---           ---      ---        ---
4. Domestic contribution                 ---      ---       ---           ---      ---        ---
Total                                           61.4       61.4                   61.4      61.4



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant          Comments
Agreement  Section    Type    Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date       Date
IDA Credit  3.03         1      NC*                            The Borrower shall have the
records and accounts of the project
audited and the report thereof
furished to IDA not later than 6
months after the end of the fiscal
year.
3.04        5                                     The Borrower to maintain a PIU
within the National Bank headed
by a coordinator acceptable to
IDA.
* A waiver is being requested in the light of recent
Bank policy change.
Covenant types:
8. = Indigenous people                 Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                            9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
2. = Financial perfonrancrevenue generation from  10. = Project implementation not covered    C = covenant complied with
beneficiaries                                   by categories 1-9                   CD  complied with after delay
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds      11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary    CP = complied with partially
4. = Counterpart funding                           or other resource allocation        NC  not complied with
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing    12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                          regulatory/institutional action
6. = Environmental covenants                    13. = Other
7. = Involuntary resettlement



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                    Revised             Actual
Stage of project cycle        Weeks         US$            Weeks    US$        Weeks  US$
Preparation to appraisal                  35.5*      172.4*            35.5   172.4     37.1  179.4
Appraisal                                 25.6*      112.9*            25.6   112.9      9.8   58.9
Negotiations through Board approval        10.0        43.5            13.8   49.2       13.2   37.9
Supervision                                30.0       107.1            31.5   145.2     28.9  133.8
Completion                                 13.0        28.8            12.1    56.6      9.5  26.71
Total                             114.1       464.7           118.5  536.3       98.5  436.7
* Revised figures used since original data are unavailable.
As of end-March 1997.



- 2 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating     Tys of
Stage of project cycle   Month/    No. of   Days in  Specialization'   Implem.       DeveloP   Problems3
Year    Persons    Field                       status      objectives
Through appraisal            (1) 11/94         1         4             E
(2) 03/95        3         9              E
(3) 04/95        3        11              E
(4) 05/95        3        11              P
Appraisal through Board
approval                         06/95         1         5             E
Supervision                     09/95          4        11           E,P            S            U          T
01/96         4        22       E,P,T,S            S            U          T
Completion                      03/97          1        14             E            S             S         --
Total                              114.1    464.7           118.5       536.3          98.5     436.7
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:       3 - Key to Types of Problems:
E = Economist                          I - Highly satisfactory              F = Financial
P = Private sector development/privatization   2 - Satisfactory             T = Technical
T = External trade                     3 - Unsatisfactory                   M = Managerial
S = State trading organizations



Annex A. 1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Credit 2773-AZ)
COMPLETION MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A mission to prepare the Implementation Completion Report for the Rehabilitation Credit took
place in Azerbaijan during the visit of the SAC Appraisal Mission, March 10-20, 1997. This task was
managed by Zeynep Taymas, mission chief, assisted by a consultant, Michael Payson, and reviewed by the
Resident Representative of the World Bank and Bank staff in the field. The mission wishes to thank all
officials met for their cooperation.
Purpose and Content of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
2.    The Rehabilitation Credit was approved by the International Development Association August 22,
1995 and closed December 31, 1996. The ICR provides the Bank's Management and Executive Directors
with an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Rehabilitation Credit and derives suggestions for future
operations based on that evaluation. Board consideration of the Structural Adjustment Credit will be
delayed until completion of the ICR.
Next Steps to Complete the ICR
3.    The ICR includes two sections: (a) an evaluation of the implementation of the Rehabilitation Credit
draft by the Bank and (b) an evaluation by the Borrower.
a) The Bank evaluation has been prepared in the field in English. It will be translated into Russian at
Headquarters and transmitted to ANB with a copy of this memorandum. The Government is invited to
comment on the Bank draft by mid-April, 1997 and transmit its comments to the Bank through the
Resident Mission in Baku. If the Government has no comment it may so advise the World Bank
Resident Representative.
b) The ANB has been given guidelines for preparation of the Government's contribution to the ICR. This
section of the report will be translated into English but will not be edited by Bank staff. In order to
ensure timely processing of the SAC the Government's contribution should also be completed no later
than mid-April, 1997.
Assessment of Outcome
4.    The Rehabilitation Credit had the two broad objectives of supporting (a) macroeconomic
stabilization and economic recovery and (b) the prograrn of structural reforms outlined in the Government's
Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies (MERP) transmitted to the Bank in July, 1995. The Bank staff
draft concludes that the contribution of the Rehabilitation Credit to economic stabilization and recovery
was successful and that achievement of this objective was "satisfactory." However, with respect to the
program of reforms, the full ICR report, which will be transmitted to Government, is needed to appreciate
the record of 1995-96.



Annex A.2
Page 1 of 3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN REHABILITATION CREDIT (2733-AZ)
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1.    Introduction. A Rehabilitation Credit in an amount of 41.6 million XDR was allocated by the
World Bank in support of the Memorandum on Economic Reform Policies (MERP) of the Republic of
Azerbaijan, complemented in the agreement between the Government of Azerbaijan Republic and IMF on
Systemic Transformation Facility arrangement. The MERP was signed by the Prime Minister of
Azerbaijan Republic, Governor of the National Bank of Azerbaijan Republic and the Minister of Finance
of Azerbaijan Republic on July 20, 1995. A "Matrix for Structural Economic Reforms Policy" was
attached to the MERP, and in the course of implementation of this plan the Government has undertaken the
responsibility to guide a process of market oriented reforms in eight sectors: privatisation, enterprise
restructuring and corporate governance, private sector development, financial sector reform,
procompetition and antimonopoly policies, price liberalisation, trade liberalisation and social protection.
2.    The objectives of the Rehabilitation Credit were:
(a) to support the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan to implement the reform program
outlined in the MERP; and
(b) to ease the shortage of foreign exchange needed to finance imports of critical inputs, raw
materials and spare parts in key sectors of the economy and to support the foreign exchange market.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
3.    Implementation of the Economic Reform Policies program. In general the Credit objectives have
been achieved due to the Government's determination to be in line with the reforms policy and open
dialogue with the World Bank.  The anti-crisis program  was elaborated in the Republic, and
implementation of this program resulted in considerable improvement in the macroeconomic situation.
Thus, in the second half of 1995, the average monthly growth of the manat-per-US$ exchange rate was 3.6
percent, while in the first half of 1994 the exchange rate had increased by 1,200 percent. Inflation in 1995
was 84.6 percent compared to 1,780 percent in 1994. Starting from January 1996 the nominal manat-
dollar exchange rate has shown a strong trend to appreciate, confirming a growing confidence in the
national currency.
4.    A considerable deceleration in the decline of gross domestic product (GDP) was achieved. In 1995
the real value of GDP decreased by 17 percent, while in 1994 it decreased by 22 percent.
5.    The State budget status has significantly improved and the budget deficit became manageable, with
the current trend to decreasing.
6.    The Republic of Azerbaijan faces now a period of transition, which has the following main
features: privatisation of the state ownership, creation of the market institutions, implementation of
financial reform, formation of the relevant legislation. These components of the transition to a market



Annex A.2
Page 2 of 3
economy are closely linked and depend on each other; the reform itself was performed on an evolutionary
basis: from simple to complex - with the maximum consideration for the imminent features of the economy
of Azerbaijan.
7.    In 1995-1996 small scale privatisation was mainly completed; the Government of the Republic of
Azerbaijan commenced the Program of mass voucher distribution in early March 1997; agricultural
privatisation, supported by the Farm Privatisation Project of the World Bank is well underway. From the
start of the privatisation process more than 9,000 small enterprises were privatised. Voucher auction
procedures will be used for privatisation of the middle and large enterprises.
8.    Reform of the present tax system was implemented. It was aimed, from one side, to increase the
activity of businessmen and manufacturers to provide economic growth, strengthen the financial system,
and expand the tax base; and from the other side, to provide a reasonable level of state budget expenditures,
not allowing growth of the budget deficit and stimulation of the inflationary process. A new Tax Code is
being prepared.
9.    New Bankruptcy Law, prepared with the assistance of the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, is to be passed by the Parliament of Azerbaijan. It will be complemented by the Secured
Transactions Law, preparation of which has also started. These two laws, together with others, will
provide an efficient legal framework for functioning of financial system, and will accelerate implementation
of market-oriented mechanisms in the economy of the Azerbaijan Republic.
10.   In 1995-96, resources were attracted into the economy of Azerbaijan in the form of:
humanitarian, technical assistance
and grants from official sources                    US$173 billion
direct foreign investment                             US$746 million
credits and loans                                     US$315.3 million
11.   At the present time, when features of stabilisation are irreversible, the strategy of the World Bank
and other intermational financial organisations and donor countries is directed to support strengthening and
improvement of the sector reforms through investment Credits.
Performance of the Bank
12.   The Bank had a key role in elaboration of the Government's reform program, taking part in the
design of this project. The Bank assisted the Government in implementation of the reforms by the
allocation of financial aid.
13.   The Bank experts helped in the preparation and adoption of the Privatisation Program in
September 1995, the implementation of which was started in late 1995.
14.   Upon Bank's recommendations, a Land Reform Law was passed by the Parliament in mid-1996.
15.   Upon Bank advice regular prices on oil and gas were significantly increased.
16.   In the process of Credit implementation, the Bank provided prompt assistance with
recommendations and advice. Bank supervision missions have been making analyses of the reform
implementations.



Annex A.2
Page 3 of 3
17.   In lieu of the continued cooperation of the World Bank and the Government of Azerbaijan,
structural reforms may possibly be supported by the Structural Adjustmnent Credit of the World Bank.
Performance of the Borrower
18.   By the middle of 1995 an essential progress in elaborating and beginning implementation of a
sound reform program was achieved in Azerbaijan. Rapid privatisation was a key element in this program.
Liberalisation of prices for most of the goods and services was a turning point in the reforms.
19.   Successful implementation of the reforms was possible due to the Government's determination to
stick to its initial objectives and maintain a considerable dialogue with the Bank.
20.   The Government has relied upon the Bank's assistance and has worked in close cooperation with
the Bank specialists.
Hindrances to Implementation
21.   The major hindrance to the Project implementation was non-existence of PIU for the Project, which
complicated the fulfilment of Bank conditions.
22.   The Government's economic strategy was, through necessity, being modified to take cognisance of
the rapidly changing situation in the country.
23.   There was a lack of understanding at the highest levels of government of the level of attention that
was necessary to be paid to implementation of MERP: the roles of the various entitles involved in
implementation were never clearly defined and clarified to all of the parties involved.
Overall Review
24.   Implementation of the two components of the Credit were achieved within two years and the
amount of the Credit was fully disbursed.  Critical imports were made, and the foreign exchange
component was critical in providing support to the newly established national currency (the manat) that
was introduced in August 1992.
25.   Mistakes were made, and delays did occur, but as this was the first Credit to be implemented in
Azerbaijan, it was inevitable that problems would be encountered.



MAP SECTION






05                                                                                                                                                           50u
RUSSIAN
G E Q  R G I A                                                               FEDlEken  FEDERATION        To. ynkent  K                                                AZERBAIJAN
Totlol                                                   - -'       \       )0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
To TblPsi>>,>^\>,   >  X  X   t   [>  Gobo/,<  <  '               NATIONAL CAPITAL
G.6.                                            ~~~~~~~~~ROADS
K/                                                                                                          S --                                     ') \S ' f \S RAILROADS
Akof.                                                 Sh.ki                                             D.- h.                                              AIRPORTS
Ak too                  ' 'RIVERS
iogltz                   "                  I)                                                                                               --   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ro Dd/zhon   7             ,       aX< syu
~~ \t                 e        ~~~~~Mit9gchgyir  Geoychoy                                                            ,
ARMENIA                                                                  Be-                              .U
AghdereO
0OeejrA   /    B A I J A N
_ f ti 'x                    Aghia6edi                                                                                                                                                                  AO'-
y . v25 Kn.=ven                              4,Kho.jli,                                 Mortn
0           25          50          75 KILMEERS
Th. o-d.,w., -6o,, d--onni-, ..d -y nie.,w;o
h-. - to 3.    do np t imply, on th part of The WVorb on G oop
-  ><  ~~~~~~~~/ 9  \ llasuva;/ \>< 54z or oocepbnce ol su h bourdorles~~~~~~~~~~~~oydgo.t n a og) tooaofan tnror o ay nd,,orn
-n -pcnt-n of -oh b-ndanaa
UKRAINE          9                      .        KAZAKHSTAN
RUSSIAN            C'
)                                                                            t       '     >       0                                                                 FEDERATION
*"",        Le,        XLenkeran 
GEORGIA t                             \
ISLAMIC  REPUBLIC  OF IRAN                                                                                                                                                    E I A.x  >i                     c
con                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ARMENstur  I~ 'IZ'FETAI/AN69  (A
3 %                                                                                             Fo                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T U R K E Y           Ww
w                                                                                                                                              R.,ht >~ \ h
c   40'                                                                                                                                                                     JSYRIAN ARAB REPr  IRAQ          ISLAMIC REP OF IRAN       K)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _YRIAN_A AB_REP      On









IMAGING
Report No.:          16627
Type:      ICR



