Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2773 AZ 
Development Credit Agreement
(Rehabilitation Credit)
between
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 14, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2773 AZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1995, between AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated July 20, 1995, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
economic stabilization and systemic reforms of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently 
needed imports and services required during such execution; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
Page  2
out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.";
(b)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.";
(c)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
 
(d)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Association or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Environmentally Hazardous Goods" means goods prohibited to be imported 
under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party;
(b)
"PIU" means Project Implementation Unit described in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement;
(c)
"Privatization Program" means a program which provides for the 
privatization of the Borrower's enterprises consistent with the principles outlined in 
the Memorandum on Economic Reform Policies attached to the Borrower's letter dated 
July 20, 1995; and
(d)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev. 3 (1986).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-one million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 41,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
Page  3
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2005 and ending April 15, 2030. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2015, shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower§s gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower§s economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Borrower hereby entrusts the head of the PIU or any person 
designated by him with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications 
under the Credit and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be 
furnished to the Association in support of such applications; such withdrawal 
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for 
withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
Page  4
reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 3.04.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain a PIU within the National Bank, 
to be headed, at all times by a coordinator with qualifications, terms of reference 
and experience satisfactory to the Association, assisted by qualified staff in 
adequate numbers acceptable to the Association; and
(b)
The PIU shall be responsible for advising on, overseeing and coordinating 
procurement and disbursement actions under the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Page  5
Section 5.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Privatization Program, 
satisfactory to the Association, has been adapted by the Parliament of the Borrower.
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
6 Samed Vurgun Street
Baku, 370006
Azerbaijan Republic
Telex:
142116 BNK SU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 197688 
(TRT),
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Baku, Azerbaijan Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Fuat Guliyev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  6
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such 
proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items
      112            -              Alcoholic beverages
      121            -              Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                    refuse
      122            -              Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                    or not containing tobacco
                                    substitutes)
      525            -              Radioactive and associated
                                    materials
      667            -              Pearls, precious and semi-
                                    precious stones, unworked or
                                    worked
      718        718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                    thereof, fuel elements
                                    (cartridges), non-irradiated for
                                    nuclear reactors
      728.43        -               Tobacco processing
                                    machinery
      897        897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                    platinum group metals (except
                                    watches and watch cases) and
                                    goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                    wares (including set gems)
      971            -              Gold, non-monetary excluding
                                    gold ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
(SDR8,300,000) may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before 
such date but after May 31, 1995;
(d)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance;
(e)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption; and
(f)
expenditures for Environmentally Hazardous Goods.
 
3.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $2,000,000 may be permitted by the 
Association upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  7
Procurement
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines, subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured:
(a)
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provision of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; or
(b)
in the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, under 
direct contracting procedures in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of 
the Guidelines.
2.
Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly traded commodities 
may be procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels of 
competitive procurement acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than $10,000,000 
equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
