Report No. PID11314
Project Name                     CHINA-Second Anhui Highway Project (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Roads and highways (80%); Sub-national government
administration (20%)
Project ID                       P076714
Borrower(s)                      PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Implementing Agency
Address ANHUI PROVINCIAL COMMUNICATIONS DEPT.
Address: 8th Floor, Huayi Mansion, No. 95 Shouchun
Road, Hefei, Anhui,
China 230001
Contact Person: Mr. Wang Xingyao, Director of APCD
Tel: (551) 2629089
Fax: (551) 2630290
Email: apcdpeo@mail.hf.ah.cn
Environment Category             A
Date PID Prepared                January 29, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              February 5, 2003
Bank Approval Date               May 29, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
MAIN SECTOR ISSUES
The Bank has completed several key sector works on China in recent years,
including:
China Highway Sector Strategy Review (2001);
China Review of Highway Technical Assistance (1998/99);
OED Report on China Transport (1998/99); and
A Strategy for the Transport Sector (Forward with One Spirit, 1997/98).
The China Highway Sector Strategy Review was completed and discussed with
the Chinese Government in November 2001. This review identified the main
challenges that China's highway sector faces:
improving accessibility to low-income areas and western provinces;
supporting economic growth; and
improving governance
developing a market economy;
managing road financing; and
improving traffic safety.
Improving Accessibility to Low-Income Areas and Western Provinces
Despite the Government's remarkable efforts to reduce poverty, more than
200 million people in China still live on expenditures of less than US$ 1
a day. The highest incidence of poverty is found in inland provinces and
in the remote mountainous areas of all provinces. Both central and local
governments recognize the value of providing basic transport to improve
the living conditions in poor areas. Access improvements have a strong
effect on income and provide people with more convenient access to a broad
range of social and economic opportunities.
The Bank's highway program in China has aimed to have a favorable impact



on poverty levels in low-income areas. The Bank recommends a renewed
effort to support road development in these areas for its lending and
non-lending services for the sector. The Western Region--12 provinces that
cover about 71 percent of China's land area--accounts for about 28 percent
of the population. For the past two decades, development in China
accelerated more in the east than in the west, so that by 1998, per capita
income in the east had risen to three times that of the Western Region. To
support the Government's major objective in its Tenth Five-Year Plan
(FYP), the development of the western provinces, the Bank recommends
financing higher class roads in the central and western provinces to
economically justified standards.
Supporting Economic Growth
Roads and road transport indirectly support economic growth in a broad
macroeconomic sense. With the construction of China's National Trunk
Highway System (NTHS) well advanced, it is essential for China to develop
the national road network and connect provincial networks that will
improve interprovincial itineraries as well as accessibility within the
province and to deep-water ports and border crossings. For western and
central provinces particularly, the road networks should link to large
urban centers in the coastal areas in order to develop interprovincial
trade and integrate lagging provinces into the national economy.
Improving Governance
Developing the Role of the Market in the Highway Sector
Improving Construction Quality. Since early 1999, the quality of highway
construction has been recognized as a serious issue in China, with the
State Council taking up the issue after some bridges collapsed. Much
progress still must be made to change the mindsets of the Bank's clients,
the contractors and the supervisors with respect to quality. Reasonable
construction implementation schedules must be drawn up to improve quality.
In this regard, the role of supervision engineer is important. The
supervision of construction of high-grade highways in Bank-financed
projects in China has been undertaken by joint international/local teams
composed of mostly local staff and a few international experts. However,
because the management group of the local team comes from the employer and
its institutes, the independence of the supervision team is limited. A
system of supervision and contract management needs to be introduced that
is based on the independence of the members of the tripartite relationship
of employer-engineer-contractor. This should lead to a higher quality of
construction.
Maintenance Work by Private Entities. Most road construction works in
China are already carried out by contract rather than force account.
However, all maintenance work (periodic and routine) is still undertaken
by force account. In recent years, some Bank projects have tried new ways
of carrying out maintenance, mainly with a view to introducing
competition. Competitive approaches encourage the effective utilization of
manpower and equipment and result in a better quality of work. While the
role of the market is being established, there is a need to develop
regulations for entering contracts to ensure construction quality and
transparent contractual relationships between the employer and the
contractors.
Operating Toll Roads. Managing toll roads more efficiently is a concern of
-2 -



the Government. A study was undertaken under the ongoing Anhui Highway
Project on the planning, financing and operation of the toll highway
network in Anhui. The study focused on integration of these functions to
ensure that when the proposed expressway is completed it will form part of
the existing expressway system.
Improving Transport Services. Since the mid-1980s, China has emphasized
the construction of new highway infrastructure. It has given less
attention to improving transport services to draw the full benefits of
infrastructure development. The modernization of road transport services
for both freight and passengers, including developing regulations for the
industry, is one area to be addressed in the highway sector. A
comprehensive transport system using intelligent transport systems (ITS)
and logistics would be highly beneficial. Information technology can
transform the intermodal freight industry by enabling it to integrate
operations across the supply chain (logistics). ITS have been introduced
recently in China to maximize the use of the transport system while
minimizing new infrastructure investment. The development of ITS is
required to support a modern logistics system. Both ITS and logistics have
gained high political visibility in China.
Managing Road Financing
Road Expenditure Allocations. The allocation of funds between new
construction and maintenance is a major problem in China. Less than 4
percent of total annual highway expenditures went to maintenance in 1999
and 2000. If funding for periodic maintenance continues at such low
levels, China will face major reconstruction costs in the future.
Another important funding issue is the balance of expenditures between
various classes of roads. The NTHS currently consumes 30 percent of
highway resources. Concentrating resources less on just a few large
projects would have the advantage of spreading the effects of improved
roads to a larger number of users, thus broadening the development impact
of the expenditures. It is the Chinese government's policy to balance
expenditures economically and equitably between various classes of roads
in the context of the total provincial road network. This is consistent
with CAS objectives to direct more resources to alleviation of poverty.
Road Revenues and Financing. It is clear that public spending will be
insufficient to meet the increasing demands placed on road infrastructure
by a growing economy. Developing other sources of road financing, such as
user fees, domestic borrowing, and private financing (investors' equity,
proceeds of loans and bonds and share issues) is necessary.
Private Sector Financing. Several provinces have raised funds from
investors through joint venture agreements and the securitization of toll
roads. However, toll-road shares have reached their limit in the Hong Kong
market in terms of what the market can absorb from a single sector. It is
therefore time to review ways of mobilizing private financing for roads as
well as the toll road policy. The increasing maturity of loans available
from domestic banks and the reform of the bond market and its opening at
some time in the future to corporate issuers will widen funding sources
accessible to toll-road companies. Improvements in the legal and
regulatory framework that constrain private participation in
infrastructure are also required.
-3-



Fuel Tax. China has been discussing the introduction of a fuel tax for
some years, but no implementation is decided yet. There is no decision on
either the level of such a tax and the amount of revenues desired, nor on
what proportion of these revenues would go back to the road system or how
these revenues would be allocated between Ministry of Communications (MOC)
and the provinces. The matter is clearly political, because the new road
law of January 1998, which mandates the introduction of such a fuel tax,
has not yet been decided.
Improving Traffic Safety
The traffic accident rate and the death rate from road accidents are high
in China, despite the relatively low rate of motorization. In 2000, 93,900
people were killed and 418,700 injured in over 617,000 accidents.
International comparisons of the number of killed in traffic accidents per
10,000 vehicles show that the rate in China is about 20 times higher than
that for Europe and North America. The Bank has been concerned for many
years about China's poor record of traffic safety. However, this issue is
still low among the preoccupations at the highest levels of Government.
The diffusion of responsibilities makes addressing the problem of traffic
safety in a comprehensive manner difficult. The question is how can the
dialogue on this problem be taken to higher levels of Government to
improve coordination among relevant agencies and authorities. Meanwhile,
the traffic safety component of the proposed project will be confined to
matters under the jurisdiction of the project executing agencies--namely,
the engineering aspects of road safety.
GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
To achieve a sound market economy by 2010, the following general
objectives are specified in the Tenth FYP (2001-2005):
stimulate demand to foster growth, and narrowing the income gap between
urban and rural areas;
accelerate development of the Western Region;
redefine the role of Government and restructure industries;
improve education; and
balance development with ecological conservation and protection of the
environment.
The objectives of the Tenth FYP for the transport sector, and for the
highway sector in particular, reflect most of these general objectives.
The objectives of the Tenth FYP for the highway sector are primarily to
support economic growth and spread the benefits of growth to lower-income
populations by continuing to develop and improve the highway networks,
mainly through capacity increases in infrastructure, and by developing
transport services using this infrastructure. The plan focuses on:
continued construction of the NTHS in order to complete the 35,000-km
network by 2010;
improved transport to and within the Western Region;
improved accessibility to low-income populations in all regions of China;
development of logistic concepts and their implementation, particularly
for container transport from major ports to the interior;
development of a market economy in the construction and operation of
infrastructure and in the provision of transport services; and
improved traffic safety.
2. Objectives
The project aims to provide an efficient, safe, and cost-effective highway
- 4 -



infrastructure and improve transport links to support the social and
economic development of Anhui Province.
To meet this development objective, the project will produce the following
outputs:
transport capacity increased and market integration promoted in the
low-income southeast area of Anhui;
accessibility to low-income areas in the province improved;
safety of road transport improved; and
institutional capacity of the Anhui Provincial Communications Department
(APCD) and related sector institutions strengthened, through policy,
institutional, and organizational reform and provision of training,
technical assistance, and equipment.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
By sustaining a policy dialogue and with its experience from involvement
in the China highway sector for the past 17 years, the Bank will continue
playing a catalytic role at the provincial level in promoting sustainable
road management practices, enhancing awareness on the need to better
manage sector externalities such as traffic safety, environment and social
dimensions, accelerating the move towards market-based activities in the
road sector, and developing institutional and manpower capacity in highway
planning, design, supervision, construction, operation, maintenance, and
finance.
The Chinese government has paid more attention recently to environmental
aspects of highway projects as people have become more concerned about the
environment. Bank involvement also will strengthen provincial practices in
analyzing and implementing environmental, land acquisition, resettlement,
social, and participatory aspects of highway projects.
The rural road improvement program under the ongoing project has achieved
significant benefits for local communities and has demonstrated that such
a program is an effective means of reducing poverty in rural areas when
combined with programs for socioeconomic development.
Through its involvement in a new project in Anhui Province, the Bank will
contribute financial resources needed to help increase traffic capacity in
the proposed project area and strengthen the linkage of the highway
network to the low-income areas in Anhui. Furthermore, Bank consultants
reviewed engineering designs and helped APCD in improving their quality.
Experience from the ongoing Anhui Highway project shows that with the
Bank's review, design changes and variations led to an increase of less
than 2 percent of the contract price. This figure is far below the
increase normally seen in similar non-Bank financed projects.
4. Description
All project components have been designed to address the sector issues
described in Section B.3.
Sustain Economic and Social Development. The main project component is
construction of the 116-km TTH. It is part of the Tianjian-Shanwei
(Fujian) highway, which is a National Trunk Highway. The TTH will link the
low-income areas in southeastern Anhui with the major provincial cities
and eventually with coastal provinces through the NTHS. It will help
- 5 -



promote interprovincial trade and tourism-related industries in the area,
particularly in Huangshan.
Improving Accessibility to Low-Income Areas. To help improve
accessibility in remote areas, the proposed project includes a component
to improve the rural road network. The RRIP will upgrade about 240 km of
rural roads in seven counties, including four poor counties, from Class
III/IV to Class II/III standards. The improved rural road network will
strengthen the linkage between rural areas and major urban centers and
promote the integration of regional markets.
Traffic Safety. The project will build on the knowledge and experience
gained under the ongoing Anhui Highway project. The objective of this
program is to mainstream blackspot improvements in the long-term highway
investment and maintenance program. Some segments and blackspots
identified under the Highway Accident Study will be improved. Urgent needs
for human resource development will be addressed through the training of
APCD staff and other provincial offices, including traffic police. Road
experts from Chinese universities and research institutes will provide
training on safety audits for the design, construction, operation, and
maintenance of highways.
Institutional Development and Road Sector Management. The previous project
began to address certain institutional issues, and the proposed project
will continue to strengthen Anhui road agencies to enable them to adapt to
market-based methods for road maintenance and management as well as road
safety. The project will provide training, technical assistance, and
equipment to APCD and related agencies.
1. Expand highway capacity and promote regional integration by
constructing approximately 116 km of trunk highway
2. Improve accessibility to low-income counties by rehabilitating and
improving 243 km of the Class III/IV highway network
3. Improve road safety by upgrading selected dangerous sections
(blackspots) that are key to the road network
4. Strengthen the highway management capacity of APCD through technical
assistance and training, including:
- Study on construction supervision
- Study on overloading of vehicles
5. Land acquisition and resettlement
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $380.94
IBRD $250.00
IDA
Total Project Cost $630.94
6. Implementation
The institutional and implementation arrangements will follow those of the
previous Anhui Highway Project. APCD will have overall responsibility for
project preparation and implementation. The Project Execution Office
- 6 -



(PEO), established within APCD under the ongoing Anhui Highway project,
will be responsible for project preparation and implementation and the
coordination of all project components, including procurement,
supervision, and environmental and resettlement aspects. It will be
responsible for the preparation and supervision of TTH construction and
for the institutional and road safety components. The Anhui Provincial
Highway Administration Bureau (APHAB) will implement the RRIP.
The overall direction of the project at the central level will rest with
MOC in Beijing, which will assume an oversight role and provide some
technical support. The Bank loan will be lent to the Borrower, the
People's Republic of China, which will onlend the loan proceeds through
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to Anhui Province on the same conditions.
The project will be implemented during 2003-2008.
Financial management and funds flow. The PEO, established under APCD, will
be headed by Mr. He Guang, director of APHAB. The PEO will assume overall
implementation and coordination responsibility and directly implement
every component of the project. In addition, the Foreign Fund Division of
APFB will play a major role in project implementation, including overall
monitoring, financing arrangements, and financial management. APFB also
will be responsible for maintaining, monitoring, and reconciling the
project special account and reviewing, verifying, and approving withdrawal
applications before submitting them to the Bank for disbursement
processing. The division has experience with Bank projects and is familiar
with Bank disbursement procedures. In addition, the Bank's experience with
APFB in terms of special account management and disbursement processing
indicates that APFB meets and complies with the Bank's relevant policies
and procedures. For smooth and successful project implementation, close
cooperation and coordination between APFB and PEO are extremely critical.
The Bank loan proceeds will flow from the Bank to the project special
account and to APCD for reimbursement of expenditures incurred for the
project and advanced by the APCD, or directly to contractors or suppliers.
Counterpart funds include contributions made by MOC and funds raised by
APCD, including lending from commercial banks. The contributions will be
appropriated by MOC directly to APCD, and domestic loan proceeds will also
be injected directly to the project.
7. Sustainability
Experience from completed and ongoing Bank-financed highway projects
indicates a strong commitment among Chinese officials to implement the
physical components. Counterpart funds are generally made available on
time. However, when the province faces financial constraints due to the
general policy of speeding up investment in the highway sector, funds are
sometimes diverted from maintenance to construction. To mitigate this
tendency, about 10 percent of project funds are allocated to improving the
existing roads, especially in poorer areas.
The level of tolls would be reviewed periodically so that the project
proves to be financially and economically viable and the province can
repay the Bank loan and provide maintenance when required. Under the
ongoing Anhui Highway Project, a study on toll rates and a study on the
operation of the toll highway network were undertaken. Recommendations
from these studies will be taken fully into consideration in the proposed
project.
-7-



8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Although the overall performance of the Bank highway portfolio in China
(26 projects to date) has been satisfactory, a number of issues have
arisen and are being taken into consideration in the design of the
proposed project. One project feasibility study made optimistic
assumptions on traffic growth and anticipated diversion rates from
existing roads to a new highway. For the proposed project, a sensitivity
analysis based on more realistic assumptions derived from actual
observations was undertaken.
Previous Bank-financed projects experienced the late commencement of
tendering for an electrical and mechanical facilities component. Tendering
activities under the proposed project are planned to start as soon as the
civil works commence.
The quality control of construction has sometimes been inadequate. Based
on experience from the previous Anhui Highway project, more rational
supervision mechanisms will be introduced and a study on practices in the
supervision and recommendations on its future directions will be included
in the project.
The development of the road network in China has not balanced the need for
maintenance of existing roads and the construction of new highways. The
proposed project design attempts to ensure that the highway network is
balanced between high-growth areas and impoverished areas by apportioning
a substantial share of investment to lower classes of roads.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
The proposed preliminary project alignment runs very close to the
Huangshan and Jinhuashan scenic sites and passes through Taiping Lake, a
scenic and popular lake in the province. Huangshan is one of top ten
protection sites in China and has been recognized by UNESCO as a World
Cultural and Natural Heritage site. Jinhuashan has 93 temples and many
cultural properties, which makes it an important sacred place of Buddhism
in China. Given these considerations, a thorough and detailed
Environmental Assessment (EA) is needed to address the potential adverse
impacts of the project, especially any indirect impacts due to a dramatic
increase in tourism as a result of the proposed new highway.
Other potential environmental issues include noise, dust, water pollution
and erosion during both the construction and operation phases. Air
pollution, traffic management and safety, waste management and disposal
will be of concern during the operation stage. Special attention will
need to be paid to soil erosion and the aesthetics of the highway
alignment selection and design because of the sensitive situation of
scenic and tourism resources in the corridor. The potential impacts on the
Taiping Lake of the added tourism and impact on the bird wildlife
(specially if the lake is a winter breeding area) will need to be
assessed. Although the project will not support Forestry operation, the
potential impact of the highway, the connecting roads and rural roads on
illegal logging will need to be assessed.
Key stakeholders of the project include APCD, affected local people
along the alignment, and local communities and governments in the
immediate vicinity of the parks and the lake, especially related natural
resources and tourism management, cultural property authorities, NGOs and
UNESCO.
-8-



APCD has retained Shanghai Ship and Shipping Research Institute (SSSRI)
to prepare the Environmental Assessment of the project and to develop
appropriate measures to mitigate the impacts. During the preparation of
the EA, APCD will carry out further alignment refinements and analysis of
alternative alignments for certain sections. SSSRI has retained recognized
experts on natural habitats and cultural property for the detailed
investigation and assessment as per OP 4.04 on Natural Habitats and OP
4.11 on Cultural Property.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Yasuhiro Kawabata
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-4033
Fax:   (202)522-3573
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
-9-



