1
ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AW*rld Frc¢ of Poverky
Infohop                                                                24321
June 13, 2002
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/13/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: CHINA                                    Project ID: P076714
Project: Second Anhui Highway Project             Task Team Leader: Yasuhiro Kawabata
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 13, 2003    IBRD Amount ($m): 250.00
Bank Approval: August 12, 2003                   IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: EASTR                              Sector: TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: TRANSPORT
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project aims to provide an efficient, safe, and cost-effective highway infrastructure and
improve transport links to support the social and economic development of Anhui Province.
To meet this development objective, the project will produce the following outputs:
*   Transport capacity increased and market integration promoted in the low-income southeast
area of Anhui
* Accessibility to low-income areas in the province improved
* Safety of road transport improved
*   Institutional capacity of the Anhui Provincial Communications Department (APCD) and
related sector institutions strengthened, through policy, institutional and organizational
reform and provision of training, technical assistance and equipment.
I.A.3. Project Description:
All project components have been designed to address the sector issues described in Section B.3.
Improving Accessibility to Low-Income Areas. The main project component is construction of
the 115-km TTH. It serves a part of the Tianjian-Shanwei (Fujian) highway, which is one of the National
Trunk Highway. The TTH will link the low-income areas in southeastem Anhui with the major
provincial cities and eventually with coastal provinces through the NTHS. It will help promote
interprovincial trade and tourism-related industries in the area, particularly in Huangshan.
Support Economic Growth. To support economic growth in remote areas, the proposed project



2
ISDS
includes a component to improve the rural road network. The RRIP will upgrade about 240 km of rural
roads in seven counties, including four poor counties, from Class 3/4 to Class 2/3 standards. The
improved rural road network will strengthen the linkage between rural areas and major urban centers and
promote the integration of the regional markets.
Traffic Safety. The project will build on the knowledge and experience gained under the
ongoing Anhui Highway project. The objective of this program is to mainstream blackspot improvements
in the long-term highway investment and maintenance program. Some segments and blackspots identified
under the Highway Accident Study will be improved. The urgent needs for human resource development
through training of staff of the Anhui Provincial Communication Department (APCD) and other
provincial offices, including traffic police, will be addressed. Road experts of Chinese universities and
research institutes will provide training on safety audits for design, construction, operation and
maintenance of highways.
Institutional Development and Improving Construction Quality. Though a previous project
had started to address certain institutional issues, the proposed project will deepen strengthening of the
Anhui road agencies to adapt to market based methods including the road maintenance/management and
road safety. I support of this, the project will provide training, technical assistance and equipment to
APCD and related agencies. Construction quality remains a serious concern of the highway sector from
both technical and administrative viewpoints. Quality control suffers partly because of the lack of
authority given to the supervision team by the employer. The project will investigate current supervision
practices and develop proposals for future directions.
Components:
1. Expand highway capacity and promote regional integration by
constructing approximately 1 5 km of trunk highway
2. Improve accessibility to low-income counties by rehabilitating and improving 240 km of the class 3/4
highway network
3. Improve road safety by upgrading selected dangerous key sections of the road network
4. Strengthen the highway management capacity of APCD through technical assistance and training,
including:
- Study on practices and future directions in the supervision industry
- Study on highway asset management and overloading of vehicles



3
ISDS
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project site is located in the south-east Anhui. The proposed project alignment runs very close
to the Huangshan and Jinhuashan scenic sites and passes through Taiping Lake, a scenic and popular lake in
the province. Huangshan is one of top ten protection sites in China and has been recognized by UNESCO as
a World Cultural and Natural Heritage site. Jinhuashan has 93 temples and many cultural properties, which
makes it an important sacred place of Buddhism in China.
B. Check Environmental Classification: A (Full Assessment)
Comments:
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                   * Yes 0 No    0 TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes 0 No    * TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                               O Yes O No   * TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                Q Yes * No    O TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   * Yes O No   O TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes C' No  * TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               * Yes O No    Q TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                               O Yes *No     O TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data
II.D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The proposed preliminary project alignment runs very close to the Huangshan and Jinhuashan
scenic sites and passes through Taiping Lake, a scenic and popular lake in the province. Huangshan is
one of top ten protection sites in China and has been recognized by UNESCO as a World Cultural and
Natural Heritage site. Jinhuashan has 93 temples and many cultural properties, which makes it an
important sacred place of Buddhism in China. Given these considerations, a thorough and detailed
Environmental Assessment (EA) is needed to address the potential adverse impacts of the project,
especially any indirect impacts due to an accelerated increase in tourism as a result of the proposed new
highway.
Other potential environmental issues include noise, dust, water pollution and erosion during both
the construction and operation phases. Air pollution, traffic management and safety, waste management
and disposal will be of concern during the operation stage. Special attention will need to be paid to soil
erosion and the aesthetics of the highway alignment selection and design because of the sensitive
situation of scenic and tourism resources in the corridor. The potential impacts on the Taiping Lake of



4
ISDS
the added tourism and impact on the bird wildlife (specially if the lake is a winter breeding area) will
need to be assessed. Although the project will not support Forestry operation, the potential impact of the
highway, the connecting roads and rural roads on illegal logging will need to be assessed.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
At this stage, OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OPN 11.03 (Cultural Property), and OP 4.12
(Involuntary Resettlement) have been triggered in preparing the project. No cumulative impact is expected
from the application of the policies.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The opening up of the new expressway is expected to form a part of the national trunk road, and
promote new development in the region. The TTH may have potential long-term impacts on the
Huangshan Scenic site, Jiuhua Scenic Site and Taiping Lake, as a result of increase in tourists traffic in
the two parks and the Taiping reservoir area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of altematives (if required)
Not required
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. APCD has engaged an
independent consultant - Shanghai Ship and Shipping Research Institute
(SSSRI) - to carry out the Environmental Impact Assessment according
to the Bank's safeguard policies. SSSRI is quite familiar with the
Bank's requirement because of its previous experience in Hubei
XiaoXiang Expressway project. A draft Terms of Reference for EIA
was prepared in February 2002 and was submitted to SEPA for review
and approval. The Bank is also reviewing the TOR to ensure that the
selection of the alignment is carried out with due consideration to the
relevant OPs. SSSRI will also engage a competent authority to conduct
cultural property survey along the alignment and present the
documentation as part of the EA process. The SSSRI EA team will
include a bio-diversity expert and a cultural relics expert familiar with
the Huangshan and Jiuhua area to assist with the selection of the
expressway alignment and identify and minimize/mitigate the impact of
the alignments on the Parks and the Taiping Lake.
OP 4.12 Resettlement. The major social issues will be related
to land acquisition and the resettlement of affected households.
Minimizing adverse impacts is a key consideration in the selection of
the alignment for the TTH. Different alternatives have been compared
and analyzed. The preferred option assumes the least resettlement
impact. The rural road improvement component has been identified
according to a set of criteria. The criteria include poverty and other
social indicators.
APCD has gained much experience in preparing and
implementing the ongoing Anhui Highway project. It has begun



5
ISDS
mobilizing to start the resettlement planning process for the proposed
project, which will include a social assessment, inventory of adverse
impacts, census of affected persons and the formulation of a
resettlement action. An outside expert has been engaged to head a team
to conduct a social assessment in the project areas (both TTH and rural
roads).
OD 4.20 on Indigenous People. A social assessment will be
conducted to determine the existence of ethnic minority groups in the
project areas (both expressway and rural road components), and whether
a development action plan is necessary if they are found living in the
project areas. If necessary, an ethnic minority people development
action plan will be developed.
Il.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Environment: The key stakeholders related to the project include APCD, local affected people
along the alignment, local communities and governments in the area of the Parks, the related natural
resources/tourism management and culture property authorities and UNESCO. Consultation with these
key stakeholders will be conducted at least twice during the EIA preparation process. The first round of
consultation was carried out in April after the preparation of the draft TOR. The second round will be
conducted after the first draft EIA is prepared. The results of public consultation will be incorporated
into alternative analysis and mitigation measures.
Social: All the affected households and villages will be identified through the census and social
assessment. Project information will be provided to the affected villages and local governments through
newspaper, posters and public meetings. Particular attention will be given to the screening for ethnic
minority groups in the project areas to ensure that they are identified and the information dissemination
methods are appropriate and adequate, and that the ethnic minority groups that participate in the project
planning process are fully informed. Focus group discussions and key informant interviews will be
designed as part of the consultation strategy to disseminate project information, collect people's concerns,
needs and recommendations, and consult the affected people about the resettlement and rehabilitation
strategy so that their concerns can be incorporated into the project design.
Information dissemination and consultation will be designed to continue during project
implementation. A resettlement information booklet, including the detailed entitlements of each
household and compensation and entitlement policies and grievance procedures will be distributed to the
affected people before resettlement implementation. The affected communities will play a key role in
finalizing and implementing their livelihood restoration programs. Both internal and independent
monitoring of the resettlement will be designed in the Resettlement Action Plan for project
implementation. The Resettlement Action Plans will be placed in local libraries and their availability will
be advertised in local newspapers.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas



6
ISDS
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 12/3 1/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             2/15/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              2/20/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  2/20/2003
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 12/31/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             2/15/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              2/20/2003
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan.                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Yasuhiro Kawabata                           06/11/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Chaohua Zhang/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Peishen Wang/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Glenn S. Morgan                          06/11/2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Jitendra N. Bajpai                          06/13/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH         EEDSACK   -    SITE MAP__    SHOWCASE



