                                               Document o f
                                           The World Bank



                                                                                  Report No: 25335-CHA

                                       FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                                 PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

                                           PROPOSEDLOAN

                               INTHEAMOUNTOFUSS250MILLION

                                                TO THE

                                   PEOPLE'SREPUBLICOF CHINA

                                                  FOR

                               SECONDANHUIHIGHWAY PROJECT

                                               May 23,2003




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance o f their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
           (Exchange Rate Effective December 16,2002)

                 Currency Unit = RMB Yuan
                     RMB1.00 = US$0.12
                      US$l.OO = RMBS.26

                         FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1  -- December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

   ADT                     Average Daily Traffic
   APCD                    AnhuiProvincialCoimnunications Department
   APFB                    AnhuiProvincial Finance Bureau
   APHAB                   AnhuiProvincial HighwayAdministration Bureau
   CAS                     Country Assistance Strategy
   CPMS                    China Pavement Management System
   EA                      Environmental Assessment
   EL4                     Environmental Impact Assessment
   EMP                     Environmental Magement Plan
   E&M                     Electrical and Mechanical
   FYP                     Five-Year Plan
   GOC                     Government o f China
   IST                     Institutional Strengthening and Training
   M O C                   Ministryo f Communications
   MOF                     Ministryo fFinance
   NTHS                    National Trunk Highway System
   P A D                   Project Appraisal Document
   PCD                     Provincial Coimnunications Department
   PIC                     Public Information Center
   PEO                     Project Execution Office
   PRC                     People's Republic o f China
   RAP                     Resettlement Action Plan
   RDB                     RoadData Bank
   RFUP                    Rural RoadImprovement Program
   SDRC                    State Development and Reform Coinmission

   voc
   TTH                     Tongling-Tangkou Highway
                           Vehicle Operating Cost




                Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
      Country ManagedDirector:      Yukon Huang, EACCF
       Sector ManagedDirector:      Jitendra N.Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team LeadedTask Manager:       Yasuhiro Kawabata, EASTR

                                                                     FOROFFICIALUSEONLY


                                                      CHINA
                                    SECOND ANHUIHIGHWAY PROJECT


                                                    CONTENTS




      A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

         1. Project development objective                                                       2
         2. Key performance indicators                                                          2

      B. Strategic Context

         1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
         2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
         3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6

      C. Project Description Summary

         1. Project components                                                                   8
         2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       10
         3. Benefits and target population                                                      10
         4. Institutioiial and implementation arrangements                                      11

      D.Project Rationale

         1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           11
         2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies         13
         3. Lessons learned and reflectedinthe project design                                   14
         4. Indications o fborrower commitment and ownership                                    15
         5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                         15

      E. Summary ProjectAnalysis

         1. Economic                                                                            16
         2. Financial                                                                           16
         3. Technical                                                                           17
         4. Institutional                                                                       18
         5. Environmental                                                                       19
         6. Social                                                                              22
         7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  24




I
This document has a restricted distributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
[without World Bank authorization.                                                                   1

F.Sustainability and Risks

  1. Sustainability                                                                       24
  2. Critical risks                                                                       25
  3. Possible controversialaspects                                                        25


G. MainLoan Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              25
  2. Other                                                                                26

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           27

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                              28



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            39
Annex 5: Financial Suinmary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    51
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                     62
          (B)FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements                            68
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      74
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                     75
h e x 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                  76
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             80
Annex 11: Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary                                82
Annex 12: Social Assessment and Poverty Alleviation Impacts Assessment                    91
Annex 13: Summary o f the Resettlement Action Plan                                        93
Annex 14: Study on Construction Supervision                                               96
Annex 15: Study on Overloading of Vehicles                                                98




MAP(S)
       IBRD32133 - Rural RoadImprovement Program
       IBRD31970 - Anhui Transport System
       IBRD31971 Tongling - TangkouHighway
                     -

                                                     CHINA
                                          Second Anhui Highway Project
                                       Project Appraisal Document
                                          East Asia and Pacific Region
                                                    EASTR

Date: M a y 23,2003                                      Team Leader: Yasuhiro Kawabata
Sector ManagedDirector: Jitendra N.Bajpai                Sector(s): Roads and highways (SO%),    Sub-national
Country ManagedDirector: Yukon Huang                     goveminent administration (20%)
Project ID: PO76714                                      Theme(s): Regional integration (P), Rural services and
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)       i~frastructure(PI, Other Public sector governance(s),
                                                         Export development and competitiveness (S)




For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 250.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:      Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
                                                       Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%

Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
 [XI Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one):
 [ ] Linked to Disbursement




Borrower: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Respondble agency: ANHUIPROVINCIAL COMMUNICATIONS DEPT.
Address:                1lthFloor, Huayi Mansion, No. 95 Shouchun Road, Hefei, Anhui,China 230001
Contact Person:         Mr.WangXingyao, Director ofAPCD

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project aims to support the social and economic development o f AnhuiProvince by providing an
efficient, safe, and cost-effective highway infrastructure and improve transport links.

To meet this development objective, the project will produce the following outputs:

        0    transport capacity increased and market integration promoted in the low-income southeast
             area o f Anhui;

        0    accessibility to low-income areas inthe province improved;

        0    safety o f roadtransport improved; and

             institutional capacity o f the Anhui Provincial Coinmunications Department (APCD) and
             related sector institutions strengthened, through policy, institutional, and organizational
             refonn and provision o f training, technical assistance, and equipment.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The principal output indicators selected for monitoring the development objective are:

        0    travel time inthe Tongling-Tangkou corridor;

        0    average daily traffic (ADT) on a new expressway and on existing proviiicial road PH103;

        0    ADT onruralroads inaffected areas;

        0    householdincomes inthe areas affected by the project;

        0    number o f poor population inthe areas affected by the project;

        0    number o f traffic accidents causing fatalities and serious injuries;

        0    percentage o f training completed; and

             action plans based on conclusions o f two technical studies.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 25141 dated 11/21/2002            Date of latest CAS discussion: December 19, 2002

The Bank's assistance strategy i s designed to help China: (a) improve the business environment and help
accelerate the transition to a market economy; (b) address the needs o f the poorer and disadvantaged
people and lagging regions; and (c) facilitate an environmentally sustainable developineiit process. To
reach these strategic objectives, the CAS identifies transport infrastructure development as a key area for
Bank support. The sector-specific goals supported by the project inline with the CAS objectives are to:

        0    promote macroeconomic growth and regional market integrationby providing much needed
             transport access to southeastern Anhui Province, where economic developinelit lags far
             behind the country's average;

        0     address provincial inequalities and contribute to poverty reduction by improvingaccessibility
             to low-income counties;



                                                      - 2 -

                  improve construction quality by supporting the introduction o f independent supervision o f
                  works; and
                  promote a sustainable transportation agenda through continued attention to traffic safety and
                  environmental and social considerations inhighway design, construction, operation and
                  maintenance.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:

MAINSECTOR ISSUES
The Bank has completed several key sector works on China in recent years, including:

                  China Highway Sector Strategy Review (2001);

             0    China Review o f Highway Technical Assistance (1998199);
                  OED Reporton China Transport (1998/99); and
                  A Strategy for the Transport Sector (Forwardwith One Spirit, 1997/98).

The China Highway Sector Strategy Review was completed and discussed with the Chinese Government
inNovember 2001.This review identifiedthe mainchallenges that China's highway sector faces:

                  improving accessibility to low-income areas and western provinces;

                  supporting economic growth; and

                  improving governance

                 o   developing a market economy;

                 o   managing roadfinancing; and

                 o   improving traffic safety.

ImprovingAccessibility to Low-Income Areas and Western Provinces
Despite the Government's remarkable efforts to reduce poverty, more than 200 million people in China
s t i l l live on expenditures o f less than US$ 1 a day. The highest incidence o f poverty i s found in inland
provinces and inthe remote mountainous areas o f all provinces. Both central and local governments
recognize the value o f providingbasic transport to improve the living conditions inpoor areas. Access
improvements have a strong effect on income and provide people with more convenient access to a broad
range o f social and econoinic opportunities.

The Bank's highway program inChina has aimed to have a favorable impact on poverty levels in
low-income areas. The Bank recommeiids a renewed effort to support road development inthese areas
for its lending and non-lending services for the sector. The Western Region-12 provinces that cover
about 71 percent o f China's land area--accounts for about 28 percent o f the population. For the past two
decades, development inChina acceleratedmore inthe east than in the west, so that by 1998, per capita
income inthe east hadrisen to three times that o f the Western Region. To support the Government's
major objective in its Tenth Five-Year Plan (FYP), the development o f the western provinces, the Bank
recommends financing higher class roads inthe central and western provinces to economicallyjustified
standards.




                                                          - 3 -

SupportingEconomic Growth
Roads and road transport indirectly support economic growth ina broad macroeconomic sense. With the
construction o f China's National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) well advanced, it is essential for China
to develop the national roadnetwork and connect provincial networks that will improve interprovincial
itineraries as well as accessibility within the province and to deep-water ports and border crossings. For
westem and central provinces particularly, the roadnetworks should link to large urban centers inthe
coastal areas to develop interprovincial trade and integrate lagging provinces into the national economy.

ImprovingGovernance
Developing the Role of the Market in the Highway Sector
ImprovingConstruction Quality. Since early 1999, the quality o f highway construction has been
recognized as a serious issue inChina, with the State Council taking up the issue after some bridges
collapsed. Muchprogress still must be made to change the mindsets o f the Bank's clients, contractors,
and supervisors with respect to quality. Reasonable construction implementation schedules must be
drawn up to improve quality. Inthis regard, the role o f supervision engineer i s important. The
supervision o f construction o f high-grade highways inBank-financed projects inChina has been
undertaken byjoint intemationalAoca1 teams composed o f mostly local staff and a few international
experts. However, because the management group o f the local team comes from the employer and its
institutes, the independence o f the supervisioii team is limited. A system o f supervision and contract
management needs to be introducedthat i s based on the independence o f the members o f the tripartite
relationship o f employer-engineer-contractor.This should lead to a higher quality o f construction.

Maintenance Work by PrivateEntities.Most roadconstruction works inChina are already carried out
by contract rather than force account. However, all maintenance work (periodic and routine) is still
undertaken by force account. Inrecent years, some Bank projects have tried new ways o f carrying out
maintenance, mainly with a view to introducing competition. Competitive approaches encourage the
effective utilizationo f manpower and equipment and result in a better quality o f work. While the role o f
the market is being established, regulations for entering contracts needto be developed to ensure
construction quality and transparent contractual relationships between the employer and the contractors.

OperatingToll Roads.Managing toll roads more efficiently is a concern of the Government. A study
was undertaken under the ongoing Anhui Highway Project on the planning, financing, and operation o f
the toll highway network inAnhui. The study focused on the integration o f these functions to ensure that
when the proposed expressway i s completedi t will fonn part o f the existing expressway system.

ImprovingTransportServices. Since the mid-l98Os, China has emphasizedthe constructiono fnew
highway infrastructure. Ithas given less attention to improving transport services to draw the full benefits
o f infrastructure development. The modernizationo f road transport services for both freight and
passengers, includingdeveloping regulations for the industry,is one area to be addressed inthe highway
sector, A comprehensive transport system usingintelligent transport systems (ITS) and logistics would be
highlybeneficial. Information technology can transform the intermodal freight industryby enabling it to
integrate operations across the supply chain (logistics). ITS have been introducedrecently in China to
maximize the use o f the transport system while minimizing new infrastructure investment. The
development o f ITS is requiredto support a modem logistics system. Both ITS and logistics have gained
highpolitical visibility inChina.




                                                      - 4 -

Managing Road Financing

Road Expenditure Allocations. The allocation o f funds between new construction and inainteiiance is a
major problem inChina. Less than 4 percent o f total annual highway expenditures went to maintenance
in 1999 and 2000. Iffinding for periodic maintenancecontinues at such low levels, China will face
major reconstruction costs inthe future.

Another important fundingissue i s the balance o f expenditures betweenvarious classes o f roads. The
NTHS currently consumes 30 percent o f highway resources. Concentrating resources less onjust a few
large projects would have the advantage of spreading the effects o f improved roads to a larger number of
users, thus broadeningthe development impact o f the expenditures. It i s the Chinese Government's policy
to balance expenditures economically and equitably between various classes o f roads inthe context of
the total provincial road network. This is consistent with CAS objectives to direct more resources to the
alleviation o f poverty.

Road Revenues and Financing, It i s clear that public spending will be insufficient to meet the
increasing demands placed on road infrastructure by a growing economy. Developing other sources of
road financing, such as user fees, domestic borrowing, and private financing (investors' equity, proceeds
o f loans, and bonds and share issues) i s necessary.

Private Sector Financing. Several provinces have raised funds froin investors throughjoint venture
agreements and the securitization o f toll roads. However, toll-road shares have reached their limit inthe
Hong Kong market interms o f what the market can absorb froin a single sector. It is therefore time to
review ways o f mobilizing private financing for roads as well as the toll road policy. The increasing
maturity o f loans available from domestic banks and the reform o f the bond market and its opening at
some time inthe future to corporate issuers will widen funding sources accessible to toll-road companies.
Improvements to the legal and regulatory framework, which now constrain private participation in
infrastructure, are also required.

Fuel Tax. China has been discussing the introduction o f a fuel tax for some years, but no implementation
i s decided yet. There i s no decision on either the level o f such a tax and the amount o f revenue desired, or
on what proportion o f these revenues would go back to the road system,or how these revenues would be
allocated between Ministryo f Communications (MOC) and the provinces. The matter is clearly political,
because the new road law o f January 1998, which mandates the introduction o f such a fuel tax, has not
yet been decided.

Improving Trafjc Safety

The traffic accident rate and the death rate from roadaccidents are high inChina, despite the relatively
low rate o f motorization. In2000, 93,900 people were killed and 418,700 injured in over 617,000
accidents. Internationalcomparisons o f traffic accident deaths per 10,000 vehicles show that the rate in
China is about 20 times higher than rates inEurope and North America. The Bank has been concerned
for many years about China's poor record of traffic safety. However, this issue ranks low among the
preoccupations o f officials at the highest levels o f Government. The diffusion o f responsibilities makes
addressingthe problem o f traffic safety ina comprehensive manner difficult. The question is how can the
dialogue on this problembe taken to higher levels o f Government to improve coordination among the
various agencies and authorities. Meanwhile, the traffic safety component o f the proposed project will be
confined   to matters under thejurisdiction of the project executing agencies-namely, the engineering
aspects o f road safety.




                                                       - 5 -

GOVERNMENTSTRATEGY
To achieve a sound market economy by 2010, the following general objectives are specified inthe Tenth
FYP(2001-2005):

        0    stimulate demand to foster growth and narrow the incoine gap between urban and rural areas;
             accelerate development o f the Western Region;

        0    redefine the role o f Government and restructure industries;

        0    improve education; and

       0     balance development with ecological conservation and protection o f the environment.

The objectives o f the Tenth FYP for the transport sector, and for the highway sector inparticular, reflect
most o f these general objectives. The objectives o f the Tenth FYP for the highway sector are primarily to
support economic growth and spreadthe benefits o f growth to lower-income populations by continuing
to develop and improve the highway networks, mainly through capacity increases in infrastructure, and
by developing transport services usingthis infrastructure. The planfocuses on:

        0    continued construction o f the NTHS inorder to complete the 35,000-km network by 2010;

        0    improved transport to and within the Western Region;

             improved accessibility to low-income populations in all regions o f China;
             development o f logistic concepts and their implementation, particularly for container
             transport from major ports to the interior;

             development o f a market economy inthe construction and operation o f infrastructure and in
             the provision o f transport services; and

             improved traffic safety.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

The project will address the sector issues discussed inB.2 while buildingon the ongoing Anhui
Provincial Highway Project funded by the Bank. The proposed project has four main objectives.

Meeting Investment Needs for Sustaining Economic and Social Development, Trade and
Integration
Anhuiis a landlockedprovince ineast central China with apopulationo f about o f 60 inillion (in2000)
neighboredby Shangdong, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Jiangxi, Hubei, and Henan provinces. Ithas experienced
sustained economic development inthe past 10 years, and its GDP per capita reached Y 4,870 in2000,
up fromY 1,182 in 1990. However, Anhui still lags far behindthe neighboring coastal provinces:
Shangdong (Y 9,559, Jiangsu (Y 11,773), and Zhejiang (Y 13,460). The highway density inAnhui i s
about 0.32 ludlun2 (2000), which is about 25 percent lower than that o f Zhejiang Province (0.42
k1dlun2).High-grade highways (expressways and Class Ihighways) made up 1.6 percent o f total
highway length in2000, while inZhejiang they constituted 3.9 percent o f highway length. Inthe early
 1990s, Anhui Province developed a highway network plan for north-to-south and east-to-west highways.
According to the plan, the Tongling Yangtze River Bridge was completed duringthe EighthFYP and the
Bank-financed Hefei-Anqing Expressway was completed duringthe NinthFYP. The Hefei-Anqing
Expressway is part o f the overlapping section sharedby both interprovincial north-south and east-west



                                                      - 6 -

maintrunk highways. The proposed project, with the construction o f Tongling-Tangkou Highway (TTH),
will address north-southtransport needs and intraregional disparities inthe province; this infrastructure
aims to increase highway capacity and improve transport services ina north-soutli corridor crucial for the
economic development o f Anhui.

Improving Accessibility to Low-Income Areas
Anhui'sGDP per capita in2000was about Y 4,870, which is about 30 percent less than the Chinese
national average o f Y 7,080 and 64 percent less than the GDP o f neighboring coastal Zhejiang Province
(Y 13,460). Anhui's mountainous southern areas have laggedparticularly far behindbecause o f a lack of
transport infrastructure. The educational and health services inthese inountainous areas are woefully
inadequate and the living standards in remote areas are far below the provincial average inurban areas. In
2000, the poor population inthe project-influenced areas numbered 39,185, in 11,301 poor households.
In 1996, the Anhuigovernment issuedthe Annual Poverty Eliinination PlaninPoor Regions, which has
succeeded inreducing absolute poverty. However, much reinains to be done to consolidate achievements
and fully address poverty; for example, the demand remains strong for iinproveinents inhighway
infrastructure to ensure all-weather access, which i s a challenge in many mountainous areas. The project
therefore includes the Rural Road Improvement Program (RRIP) inremote and low-income areas with
the goal of stimulating economic development and alleviating poverty by providing an efficient road
network, ensuring better accessibility to social services and markets, and connecting these communities
to the provincial arterial highways.

Traffic Safety
The traffic safety component o f the proposed project will intensify safety efforts launched under the
ongoing Anhui Highway Project. The traffic safety program under the ongoing project includes:

        0    a pilot program o f accident blackspot improvements; and

        0    a study o f highway traffic accidents on major highways to determine the main factors
             contributing to accidents and identify the needs for actions to reduce their frequency and
             severity.

The safety program to be included inthe proposed project will buildon the work done under the highway
accident study conducted under the ongoing highway project. The project will also undertake the
preparation o f a Highway Safety Action Plan, which will include all the elements o f highway safety
engineering, a public safety education campaign, and staff training in safety audits o f the design,
construction, operation, and maintenance o f highways.

Institutional Development and Sustainability of Road Sector Management
The project will pursue institutional development efforts inthe following three main areas:

        0    developing institutional capacity;

        0    sustaining roadmaintenance; and

        0    improving construction quality.

Developing institutionalcapacity. Recent decentralization transferred inuch administrative
 decision-making authority to the provincial coimnunications departments, which has affected the
 organizational and human resource capacity o f provinces. Strengthening and inodernizing APCD started
under the ongoing Anhui Highway Project and will continue under this project. Duringpreparation and
 implementation o f the project, staff o f APCD and its related agencies will be trained, both on the job and


                                                     - 7 -

inwell-designed courses intransport planning, economic analysis, engineering, quality control, project
management, environmental and social aspects o f highway transport, and highway safety.

Sustaining road maintenance. Expandinghigh-grade highways and the provincial highway network
increases the risk that insufficient funds will be devoted to maintaining existing roads. While in 1999 and
2000, when less than 4 percent o f total annual expenditures went to maintenance for highways inChina,
APCD spent 9.5 percent o f highway expenditures for maintenance. Untilthe NTHS i s completed in2010,
provinces are under pressure to spend more to buildmajor new highways. APCD intends to spend about
11percent o f highway revenues for maintenance annually for the next 10 years. Duringthe Tenth FYP,
the highway mileage inAnhui will increase by 1.7 percent annually, while the province plans to increase
expenditures for maintenance by 3.9 percent annually.
Another shortcoming is the lack o f rational maintenance policy and practices. Untilrecently all periodic
and routine maintenance work has been undertaken by local maintenance crews through force account.
For routine maintenance, APCD uses standard M O C guidelines for unit costs inyuan per kilometer, and
allocates the corresponding funding to the road maintenance units at the various administrative levels.
Work priorities are decided by eachunit.For periodic maintenance, priorities are decided by Anhui
Provincial Highway Administration Bureau, which provides additional funding for these works. The
ongoing Anhui Highway Project includes the highway maintenance component, which will promote
stabilization o f the condition o f the existing highway network. The experience gained through
implementation o f the maintenance component, particularly the selection criteria o f roads and prioritizing
process, will be fully utilized inthe proposed project.
APCD has installed the RoadData Bank (RDB) and China Pavement Management System (CPMS) to
identify priorities and the type o f work to be done but neither o f these systems is fully operational. This
project will operationalize both the RDB and CPMS so that maintenance planning can be incorporated
into a decision support system covering the entire provincial highway network. APCD recognizes the
necessity of introducing a competitive and market-based maintenance service to increase the efficiency o f
maintenance work and reduce costs. APCD is planning to introduce the outsourcing o f maintenance
operations on a pilot basis. The project will closely monitor the sustainability o f maintenance by contract.


Improving construction quality. The supervision o f expressway construction under Bank-financed
highway projects has been conducted byjoint international and local teains headed by chief and deputy
chief supervision engineers from the employer. This arrangement was a great improvement over previous
practices but has failed to establish the independence o f the supervision team. Under the project, a study
will be undertaken to review practices inconstruction supervision and recommendpotential areas of
improvement.


C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components(see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):

All project components have been designed to address the sector issues described inSection B.3.

 Sustain Economic and Social Development. The mainproject component is construction o f the 116
kmTTH. It is part o fthe Tianjian-Shanwei (Fujian) highway, which is a National TrunkHighway. The
TTH will linkthe low-income areas insoutheastern Anhuiwith major provincial cities and eventually
with coastal provinces through the NTHS. It will help promote interprovincial trade and tourism-related
 industries inthe area, particularly inHuangshan.



                                                      - 8 -

Improving Accessibility to Low-Income Areas. To help improve accessibility inremote areas, the
proposed project includes a component to improve the rural road network. The RRIP will upgrade about
240 luno f rural roads in seven counties, including four poor counties, from Class IIIiIVto Class IVIII
standards. The improved rural road network will strengthen the liiiltage between rural areas and inajor
urban centers and promote the integrationo f regional markets.

Traffic Safety. The project will buildon the knowledge and experience gained under the ongoing Anhui
Highway Project. The objective o f this program i s to mainstream blackspot iinproveinents into the
long-term highway investment and maintenance program. Some segments and blackspots identifiedunder
the Highway Accident Study will be improved. Urgent needs for human resource development will be
addressed through the training o f APCD staff and other provincial offices, including traffic police. Road
experts from Chinese universities and research institutes will provide training on safety audits for the
design, construction, operation, and maintenance o f highways.

Institutional Development and Road Sector Management. The previous project began to address
certain institutional issues, and the proposed project will continue to strengthen Anhui road agencies to
enable them to adapt to market-based methods for roadmaintenance and management as well as road
safety. The project will provide training, technical assistance, and equipment to APCD and related
agencies.

                                                                 ndicative                 Bank-        0%of
                          Component                                costs       % of      financing      Bank-
                                                                  (US$M)       Total      (US$M)      financing
 1. Expand highway capacity and promote regional                   496.46        78.6      216.21         86.5
 integration by constructing approximately 116 kmo f trunk
 highway

 2. Improve accessibility to low-income counties by                 69.13        10.9       27.65         11.1
 rehabilitating and improving 243 kmo f the Class IIVIV
 highway network

 3. Improve road safety byupgrading selected dangerous               2.51          0.4        1.oo         0.4
 sections (blackspots) that are key to the road network

 4. Strengthen the highway management capacity o f APCD             19.00          3.0        2.64         1.1
 through technical assistance and training, including:
     -- Study
        Study on construction supervision
              on overloading o f vehicles

 5. Land acquisition and resettlement                               20.35          3.2        0.00         0.0
                                            Total Project Costs    607.45        96.1      247.50         99.0
                                   Interest duringconstruction      21.88          3.5        0.00         0.0
                                                 Front-end fee        2.50         0.4        2.50         1.o
                                   Total FinancinE Reauired        631.83        100.0     250.00        100.0




                                                     - 9 -

2. Keypolicy and institutionalreforms supportedbythe project:

The proposed project will focus on the following key policy and institutional refonns:

             support economic growth and spread its benefits to lower-income populations by improving
             accessibility to low-income areas. The project will include the followiiig activities:

            o     expand highway capacity by constructing a 116 lunhighway inpoor areas; and

            o     carry out a 243 kmrural road improvement program;
             improve traffic safety. The project will leverage the results achieved under the ongoing
             AnhuiHighwayProjectandconduct the following activities:

            o    prepare a Highway Safety Action Planbased on the results o f the Highway Accident
                  Study from the ongoing project;

            o     generalize the programming o f the improvement o f blackspot segments into the
                  long-term highway investment and maintenance program; and

            o     conduct focused staff training on safety audits for the design, construction: operation and
                  maintenance o f highways;

        0    improve construction quality by studying supervision practices inChina, recommending
             changes to these practices, and introducing independent supervision o f worlcs according to
             FIDIC rules; and

        0    improve the sustainability o f road maintenance. Inthe absence o f stable and comprehensive
             fundingo froad activities from the fuel tax yet to be implementedbythe central government,
             the project will assist Anhui Province inimproving the efficiency o f roadmaintenance,
             preservingthe road network, and optimizing the use o f available resources.

3. Benefitsand targetpopulation:

The project will accelerate economic growth and promote the market integrationo f southeastern Anhui
Province, where economic development lags far behind the rest o f the country. The major quantifiable
benefits are intenns o f reduction intravel time and vehicle operating costs for roadusers in the
Tongling-Tangkou corridor, through shorter trips, improved safety and comfort, and reduced traffic
congestion. Long-distance users will benefit from a more cost-effective route between this remote area
and the coastal provinces. It is expected that most long-distance traffic and some local traffic will be
diverted to the TTH. As a consequence o f a reduced congestion level on the existing parallel roads,
traffic on those roads will also benefit froin time savings. An estimated 4 inillion people live inthe
Tongling-Tangkou corridor (in2000) and potentially could benefit from the project.

Inthe mediumand longtenn, indirectbenefits are expectedfromTTHintenns ofenhancedtourismto
the historical relics and natural scenic areas o f Jiuhua Mountain and Huangslian. In2000, about 7 million
tourists visited these mountains, and more than 14 million tourists are expected to visit these sites by
2007, when the TTH opens to traffic. Tourism holds great promise for increasedjob opportunities.

The project will also be o f benefit to residents o f low-income counties, especially those where rural roads
will be improvedunder the RRIP. Better accessto markets and health, education, and other social
services will be ensured.




                                                       -10-

Other benefits, which are difficult to quantify, will include the strengthening o f policy and of the
institutional and technical capabilities o f the implementing agency, APCD, and other institutions that are
responsible for the planning, design, supervision, construction, operation, maintenance, and financing of
highways inAnhui Province. Furthermore, the project will foster the strengthening and improvement of
environinental practices, land acquisition practices, and the resettlement o f affectedpeople, and
participatory approaches to project preparation and iinplementation.

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:

The institutional and implementation arrangements will follow those o f the previous Anhui Highway
Project. APCD will have overall responsibility for project preparation and implementation. The Project
Execution Office (PEO), established within APCD under the ongoing Anhui Highway Project, will be
responsible for project preparation and implementation and the coordination o f all project components,
including procurement, supervision, and environmental and resettlement aspects. It will be responsible
for the preparation and supervision o f TTH construction and for the institutional and road safety
components. APHAB will implement the RRIP.

The overall direction o f the project at the central level will rest with M O C inBeijing, which will assume
an oversight role and provide some technical support. The Bank loan will be lent to the Borrower, the
People's Republic o f China, which will onlend the loan proceeds through the Ministry o f Finance (MOF)
to Anliui Province on the same conditions. The project will be iinpleinented during2003-2008.

Financial management and funds flow. The PEO will be headed by Mr.He Guang, Director o f
APHAB. The PEO will assume overall implementationand coordinationresponsibility and directly
implement every component o f the project. The Foreign FundDivision o f APFB will play a major role in
project implementation, including overall monitoring, implementing o f financing arrangements, and
financial management. APFB also will be responsible for maintaining, monitoring, and reconciling the
project special account and reviewing, verifying, and approving withdrawal applications before
submittingthem to the Bank for disbursement processing. The division has experience with Bank
projects and is familiar with Bank disbursement procedures. Inaddition, the Bank's experience with
APFB interms o f special account management and disbursement processing indicates that APFB meets
and coinplies with the Bank's relevant policies and procedures. For smooth and successful project
implementation, close cooperation and coordination between APFB and PEO are critical.

The Bank loan proceeds will flow from the Bank to the project special account and to APCD for
reimbursement o f expenditures incurred for the project and advancedby the APCD, or directly to
contractors or suppliers. Counterpart funds include contributions made by M O C and funds raised by
APCD, including lending from commercial banks. The contributions will be appropriated by M O C
directly to APCD, and domestic loan proceeds will also be injected directly to the project.

 D. Project Rationale
 1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:

 Tongling-Tangkou Highway
 Public or Private Provision
 TTH will be a toll highway generating income from toll revenue. AnhuiProvince considered private
 financing for TTH as an option and conducted a brief feasibility study. The preliminary financial
 assessment concluded, however, that the project would not be viable without a government contribution


                                                      -11 -

o f 30 to 40 percent o f the investment cost. APCD is aware that private investors are reluctant to invest in
greenfield road operations with the risks involved inthe legal and regulatory framework inChina.

APCD made a strategic choice to provide the infrastructure froin public funds and to work on improving
toll road operations inAnhui while pursuing the possibility o f commercializing the toll road agency,
including operation o f the completed TTH. This is consistent with the policy o f asset securitization
currently followed by several provinces, which the Bank supports.

ImprovingExistingRoadsor New Construction
APCD considered two options for TTH: constructing a new four-lane highway or upgrading the existing
two-lane PH103 by constructing two additional lanes and bypasses o f urbanized areas.

Upgrading PH103 was rejected because it would have created a dangerous mix o f traffic modes, raised
traffic safety issues at urban crossings, had muchhigher environmental and resettlement impacts on
housing and coinmercial and industrial activities, and created technical difficulties (especially in
mountainous areas) because the existing road would had to have been kept open to traffic . The
environmental and resettlement issues and the technical difficulties would have resulted inhigher costs.
For these reasons, the option selected is the construction o f a new high-grade highway.

AlternativeAlignments
An alternative alignment analysis was made considering the socioeconoinic conditions inthe
Tongling-Tangkou corridor, the level o f economic development and poverty, and the mountainous area in
its southern part. The proposed alignment was chosen on the basis o f topographical and geological
conditions, technical feasibility, level o f social and environmental impacts, degree o f econoinic return,
and support for the project from local governments.

DesignStandard
The current PHI03 i s built to Class IVIIIstandards with a 9-12 meter roadway width. To accommodate
the forecast traffic, a four-lane divided highway was selected as the more cost-effective and safer design.

RRIP
APCD proposed 10road sections totaling about 450 km as candidates for Bank financing under the RRIP
component. After these were screened through six criteria -- current road condition; lack o f alternative
transport infrastructure; expected impact on the population's access to education, health, and other social
activities; contribution to a provincial plan; support from local government and people; and economic
rate o f return -- five road sections were chosen as high-priority candidates to be financed under the
project. The length o f rural roads to be improvedtotals 243 lun, o f which 191lunto Class IVIIIstandards
and 52 km to Class I11standards.




                                                      - 12-

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                           Latest Supervision
               Sector Issue                        Project                   (PSR) Ratings
                                                                      [Bank-finance  lrojectsonly)
                                                                       nplementation  Development
  lank-financed                                                        Progress (IP)  3bjective (DO)

  . Removehighway capacity             AnliuiProvincial Highway             S              S
  ottlenecks                           (ongoing) (sector issues 1-5)

  . Institutional strengtheningand    SecondHenanProvincial                 S               S
  -aining                             Highway (ongoing) (sector
                                      issues 1-6)

  . Rural roads andpoverty alleviation SecondNational Highway               S               S
                                       (ongoing) (sector issues 1,2,
                                       4-6)
  . Highway safety                     ThirdNational Highway:               S               S
                                       (ongoing) (sector issues 1,2,
                                       4-6)

  . Operationandmaintenance of         Third HenanProvincial                S               S
  .igh-gradehighways                   Highway (ongoing) (sector
                                       issues 1-6)


  I.Cost recovery                      Tri-Provincial Highway               S                S
                                       (ongoing) (sector issues 1-6)

                                       FourthNationalHighway                S                S
                                       (ongoing) (sector issues 1-5)

                                       SecondFujianHighway                  S                S
                                       (ongoing) (sector issues 1,2,
                                       4-6)

                                        Guaiigxi Highway (ongoing)           S               S
                                        (sector issues 1-6)

                                        SecondJiangxi Highway                S               S
                                        (ongoing) (sector issues 1-6)

                                        Inner MongoliaHighway                S               S
                                        (ongoing) (sector issues 1-6)

                                        XinjiangIIIHighway                   S               S
                                        (ongoing) (sector issues 1-6)



                                                  - 13-

                                          Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan
                                          Highway (ongoing) (sector
                                          issues 1-6)
Ither development agencies
4sian Development Bank                    Ongoing projects:
                                          Southern Sichuan Roads Dev.
                                          Guangxi Roads Development
                                          Shaanxi Roads Development
                                          Chongqing-Guizhou Roads
                                          Dev. (Leichong Expressway)
                                          Southern Yunnaii Road Dev.
                                          Shanxi Roads Development
                                          Changchun-Harbin
                                          Expressway: Chaiigyu
                                          Expressway
                                          Changchun-Harbin
                                          Expressway: Hashuaiig
                                          Expressway
                                          Chengdu-Nanchong
                                          Expressway

 apaii Bank for Intemational              Ongoing projects:
:ooperation
                                          Hangzhou-Quzhou Expressway
                                          Wanxian-Liangping
                                          Expressway
                                          Liangping-Changshou
                                          Expressway
                                          Haiiiaii East Expressway
                                          Xinxiang-Zhengzhou Highway
                                          Heilongjiang Heife-Beian Roac
'/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory),S (Satisfactory),U (Unsatisfactory),HCI (Highly Unsatisfactory)

3. Lessons learned and reflectedinthe project design:

Although the overall performance o f the Bank highway portfolio in China (26 projects to date) has been
satisfactory, a number o f issues have arisen and are being taken into consideration inthe design o f the
proposed project. Most project feasibility studies made optimistic assumptions on traffic growth and
anticipated diversion rates from existing roads to a new highway. For the proposed project, a sensitivity
analysis based on more realistic assumptions derived from actual observations was undertaken.

Previous Bank-financedprojects experienced the late coimnenceineiit o f tendering for an electrical and
mechanical facilities component. Tendering activities under the proposed project are planned to start as
soon as the civil works commence.




                                                     - 14-

The quality control o f construction has sometimes been inadequate. The previous Anhui Highway Project
showed the need for inore rational supervision mechanisms. The proposed project will introduce a study
on practices inthe supervision industry and recommendations on its future directions.

The development o f the road network inChina has not balanced the need for maintenance o f existing
roads and the construction o f new highways. The proposed project design attempts to ensure that the
highway network i s balanced between high-growth areas and impoverishedareas by apportioning a
substantial share o f investment to lower classes o f roads.

4. Indications of borrowercommitmentand ownership:

The central government, including the State Development and Reform Commission (SDRC), MOF, and
MOC, and the Anhui Provincial Government strongly support the project. TTH is part o f a strategic
north-south interprovincial link inthe maintrunk highway system. Anhui Province included this highway
inits provincial Tenth FYP, andthe northern connecting section to TTHcrossing over the Yangtze River
i s already under construction.

The prefeasibility study was approved by the State Council inMarch 2003 and the feasibility study and
financing plan inM a y 2003. Government financial contributions o f UW05.91 million from MOC and
US275.03 million from AnhuiProvince have been approved.

APCD has demonstrated strong ownership o f the poverty alleviation objective by committing to
implement the RRLP.

5. Value added of Banksupport in this project:

By sustaining a policy dialogue and with its experience froin involvement inthe China highway sector
for the past 17 years, the Bank will continue playing a catalytic role at the provincial level inpromoting
sustainable roadmanagement practices, enhancing awareness o f the needto better manage sector
externalities such as traffic safety, environmental and social dimensions, accelerating the move towards
market-based activities inthe road sector, and developing institutional and staffing capacity inhighway
planning, design, supervision, construction, operation, maintenance, and finance.

The Chinese Government lias paid more attention recently to environmental aspects o f highway projects
as people have become more concemed about the environment. Bank involveinent also will strengthen
provincial practices inanalyzing and implementing environmental, land acquisition, resettlement, social,
and participatory aspects o f highway projects.

The rural road improvement program under the ongoing project lias achieved significant benefits for
local coinmunities and has demonstrated that such a program i s an effective means o f reducing poverty in
rural areas when combined with programs for socioeconomic development.

 Through its involvement ina new project inAnhui Province, the Bank will contribute financial resources
 needed to help increase traffic capacity inthe proposed project area and strengthen the linltage o f the
 highway network to the low-income areas inAnhui. Furthermore, Bank consultants reviewed engineering
 designs and helped APCD inimproving their quality. Experience from the ongoing Anliui Highway
 Project shows that with the Bank's review, design changes and variations led to an increase o f less than 2
 percent o f the contract price. This figure i s far below the increase normally seen in similar non-Bank
 financed projects.



                                                       - 15-

 E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsarc inthe project file, see Annex 8)

01. Economic (see Annex 4):
       Cost benefit       NPV=US$439.4 million; ERR= 20.8 ?4 (see Annex 4)

'     'Cost effectiveness
    ~




       Other (specify)

 The economic evaluation covers two project components that entail capital costs:

            0   the construction o f the 116.15 lunTTH; and

            0   upgrading o f five rural roads (total 243 lun)in the poor areas of Anhui Province under the
                RRIP.
     The principal measured benefits o f the project are savings invehicle operating costs (VOC), reduction
     intravel time, andenhanced roadsafety. The overall economic internal rate of return (EIRR)for the
     project is estimated at 20.8 percent: 20.7 percent for TTH and 21.4 percent for the RRIP. The overall
     economic NPV, based on a 12 percent discount rate, is estimated at Y 3,467.1 million, consisting o f a
     contribution o f Y 3,320.6 million from TTH and Y 326.5 million froin the RRIP. A description o f the
     economic evaluation method and an analysis o f the results are provided in Annex 4. RIUP will have
     positive social impacts, not quantifiable for the purpose o f the economic evaluation, but that social
     impacts will be monitored through performance indicators. The followiiig table summarizes the results
     o f the economic evaluation.


                                           EconomicEvaluation Results
                                                               EIRR (in %) NPV (Y million, 12%)
                Tongling-Tongkou Highway. (TTH)
                                       -      .
                    Section I: Tongling-Yangmeicbn                     24.3                 2,027.30
                    Section 2: Yangmeicun-Tanjiaqiao                   20.5                 1,400.00
                    Section 3: Tanjiaqiao-Tongkou                         9                    -136.4
                 Subtotal                                              20.7                 3,320.60
                 Rural Road Improvement Program (RRIP)                 21.4                     326.5
                Total                                                  20.8                 3,647.10

 2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
 NPV=US$ -159.5 million; FRR= 1.3 % (see Annex 4)
 TTH is the mainproject component and constitutes about 88 percent o ftotal project investment.
 Although not designed as financially viable initself, with projected toll levels the TTH will generate
 enough revenue throughout the Bank loan periodto finance debt service with a standard amortization
 schedule, cover operating costs, and make a contribution towards capital costs. No external cash
 injection will be required after the road i s inoperation, even inthe early years while traffic i s still
 relatively low and inthe "rainp-up" period.

 The projected toll level, at YO.6/car-lun (US 7 cents), is higher than the tolls inthe nearby toll roads and
 comparable to tolls o n other expressways inChina. It is high by U S standards, where the toll rates are on
 the order o f U S 5 cents/ car-km, and even higher when considering GDP per capita intwo countries. It i s
 estimated that a higher level o f toll will significantly riskthe fulfillment o f the project objectives o f
 stimulating the economy o f the region inwhich the road is located and would detract from the economic
 benefits o f this project component.



                                                        - 16-

Because the TTH is an integral part o f the Hefei-Tangkou corridor, the financial return o f the TTH
section has to be seen inthe wider context o f that corridor. Most traffic on the TTH will be long-distance
travellers that will also travel other sections o f the corridor. The two sections o f toll highway to the north
of the TTH (the Lujiang-Tongling Highway, under construction, and the Hefei-Lujiang Highway,
financed under a previous Bank-supported project) have higher financial rates o f return (10.1 percent
and 12.0 percent respectively) because they have more traffic and lower construction costs. The TTH has
traffic levels about halfthose on the more northern section (because it is farther from tlie urban area o f
Hefei, the provincial capital) and construction costs about 50 per cent higher (US$4.3 million per km
instead o f US2.9 million per km) because it passes through mountainous terrain rather than level terrain
inthe other two sections.

Given the highconstruction costs and lower traffic volumes o f the TTH, an alternative development
program would be to construct the highway intwo stages. Experience with other highways in
inountainous areas, however, shows that this strategy has significantly higher overall discounted costs,
lower benefits, and much higher accident rates. For these reasons constructing the highway inone stage
i s preferred.

For the non revenue-eaming project entities, the five rural roads under the RRIP, the financial evaluation
focused on the availability o f sufficient counterpart funds and on operating expenses. All the indicators
show that the financial risks are modest. A detailed assessment is provided in Annex 5.

Fiscal Impact:
Anhui's roadbudgets duringthe project implementation years have beendiscussed with the Anhui
Provincial Government during project preparation and are shown in Annex 5. Revenue and expenditure
forecasts during the Tenth FYP (2001-2005) and the EleventhFYP (2006-2010) take project funding into
full account and show that APCD will have sufficient budget resources to inalce its contributionto project
capital investments while increasing maintenance funding faster than the road network i s extended. This
means that road maintenance will be as integral to the new project as new highway construction. In
addition, investment costs o f the RRIP road improvements constitute only a small fraction o f APCD's
planned investment expenditures, at 0.6-1.8 percent per year over the implementation period; and the
maintenance expenditure for the RRIP is about 0.3 percent o f total roadmaintenance budgets. Therefore,
the fiscal impact o f the RRIP will be minimal, and the overall financial risk o f lack o f availability o f
counterpart funding for construction and maintenance o f the project i s low.

3. Technical:

The issues that need special attention from a technical point o f view are:

         e    a proper review o f highway design standards and any traffic safety hazards introduced
              through design;

         e    sufficient geological investigations at the design stage to avoid tlie need for major changes in
              designs at the construction stage, especially ininountainous areas; and

         e    an appropriate level o f electrical and mechanical works at the opening o f the highway to
              traffic.




                                                        -17-

The feasibility study o f TTHwas approved by MOC, SDPC, and the State Couiicil inApril 2003, and the
preliminary design was acceptedby M O C inApril 2003. The design has been reviewedby an
international engineering consultant under Japanese Trust Fundgrants and was found satisfactory.

The cost estimates o f the project reflect December 2002 prices and are based on the latest available
engineering studies, prevailing unit rates for civil works checked against effective rates in similar works
under Bank-financed projects, recent costs o f foreign experts froin other highway projects, and recent
price quotations for equipment. Total project costs also include physical and price contingencies:
Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent o f the baseline costs o f civil works, and price
contingencies at 4.2 percent o f all baseline costs (excluding land acquisition) on tlie basis o f forecasts o f
domestic and foreign inflationrates duringproject implementation.

4. Institutional:

APCD has demonstrated project management capabilities by successfully implementing the previous
project. All institutional issues relatedto capacity building still will require special attention. The
successful implementation o f the institutional components will require continued strong commitment
from APCD and its associated road sector agencies.

4.1 Executing agencies:

APCD has been an executing agency for the ongoing Anliui Highway Project since January 1999. I t i s
familiar with Bank requirements and has displayed capacity to execute the proposed project successfully.

4.2 Project management:

APCD will handle overall project management . It will also be primarily responsible for the institutional
and policy components and the traffic safety components. The PEO, established under the ongoing
project, will be responsible for both the TTH and RRIP components, including construction, supervision,
quality control, and monitoring o f enviroiiineiital aspects and resettlement activities.

The study undertaken under the ongoing project on the planiiing, financing, and operation of the toll
highway network inAnhui focused on ways to integrate the Bank-financed highways into the existing
expressway system. The operation o f the project toll facility will be based on tlie recoimneiidatioiis made
under this study.

4.3 Procureinent issues:

The assessment o f the procurement capacity o f the implementing agency, APCD, and o f the procurement
agent (CMC International Tendering Company [ITC-CMC]) confirms that both have adequate experience
worlung with the Bank and are conversant with Bank procedures and guidelines. APCD i s implementing
the ongoing project satisfactorily, and the procurement agent has 17 years o f experience inI C B
procurement business under Bank-financed projects.

 All procurement activities under the project will beundertaken inaccordance with Bank guidelines.
 Biddingdocuments for the various procurement packages will be basedonthe detailed engineering
 design. The Anliui Design Institutewill prepare the technical part and the procurement agent will prepare
 the coinmercial part o f the biddingdocuments. APCD will review the completed documents and ensure
 that commercial andtechnical aspects are well integrated.




                                                      -18-

4.4 Financial management issues:

The financial management assessment conducted during project appraisal according to the guidelines of
the Bank's Financial Management Sector Board issued June 30,2001, has concluded that the project
meets minimumBank financial management requirements as stipulated inBP/OP 10.02.Inthe team's
opinion, the project will have inplace an adequate project financial management system that can provide,
with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely informatioil on the status o f the project ina reporting
format agreed to by the Bank and meeting its requirements. The Financial Management Assessment
Report is available inproject files and summarized inAnnex 6B.

Fundingsources for the project include the Bank loan and counterpart funds. The Bank loan will be
signed between the Bank and the People's Republic o f China (PRC) through MOF, and on-lending
arrangements for the Bank loan will be signed betweenMOF and Anhui Provincethrough APFB, and
between APFB and APCD. The Bank loan proceeds will flow from the Bank into a special account
maintainedby APFB for the reimbursable expenditures incurred, or to contractors or suppliers through
accounts with major commercialbanks acceptable to the Bank. The project will disburse usingtraditional
disbursement techniques and will not use FMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement
between the Bank and MOF.The counterpart funds to be contributed directly to the project will come
from three sources: appropriations by MOC, appropriations by APFB, and loans to the province from
domestic commercial banks.

None o f the implementing agencies involved inthe proposed project has any outstanding audits or audit
issues to be addressed. The task team, however, will continue to be attentive to project financial
management and audit covenants during supervision.

5. Environmental:                          Environinental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis

The main environmental issues associated with the Second Anhui Highway Project are:

        0    selection o f an optimal alignment for the highway taking into consideration the
             environmental and social impacts;

             direct and indirect impacts o f the project on Huangshan, and Jiuhuashan mountains (scenic
             zones and forest parks), and Taiping Lake; and

        0    noise, dust, water pollution, soil erosion, traffic management and safety, waste management
             and disposal, and aesthetics during construction and operation.

A large part o fproject preparation was devoted to the selection of an environmentally benign alignment
avoiding and minimizing impacts on villages and coimnunities, agricultural lands, cultural relic sites, and
sensitive and mountainous terrain. The selection process was conducted intwo phases. Four major
alternatives were evaluated inthe first phase and the selected alternative was refined by considering five
sub-alternatives inthe secondphase.

The selection took into account environmental, cultural, social, technical, economic, and political
considerations. The proposed Tongling-Tangkou alignment runs very close to the Huangslianand
Jiuhuashan scenic sites and passesthrough Taiping Lake, a popular scenic lake. Huangshan is one o f the
top ten protected sites inChina and has been recognized by UNESCO as a World Cultural and Natural
Heritage site. Jiuhuashan has 93 temples and many cultural properties that make it an important sacred



                                                     - 19-

place o f BuddhisminChina. A cultural relics investigation was conducted along the recoinmended
alignment, alternative sections, and five rural roads under tlie RRIP, and at all 22 borrow and disposal
areas. The alignment was adjusted to avoid cultural relics sites as much as possible. Tlie selected
alignment avoids Jiuhuashan Mountainby about 2.5 km, Sliibasuo Nature Reserve by 2.0 lun, Shilishan
NaturalReserve by 0.5 km, and six cultural relics sites. Only one low-level local cultural relics site
(lower than county level) will be affected, and rescue excavation is planned before construction begins.
Special attention has been paid to the potential impact o f increase in tourisin on the Huangshan and
Jiuhuashan mountains and Taiping Lake inducedby the construction o f TTH. The current protection
status for these areas was investigated, and protection plans for these reserves and parks addressing the
increase intourisin were carefully evaluated, and further recoinmendations were made by the Bank.

The impact o ftraffic usingthe existing highways to haul construction materials and the resultant noise,
dust, congestion, and safety problems are o fpotentialconcern. The safe disposal o f excess excavated
material from cuts and tunnels inthe mountainous areas will also require close attention duringdesign
and supervision. A comprehensive environmental impact assessment (EIA) was conducted, and
mitigation measures are planned for noise, air, and water pollutionand soil erosion, biodiversity, cultural
property, aesthetics, safety and public health, management, and planning. The Nanjiiig Environment
Institute, a leading institute o f natural ecology and biodiversity inChina, was subcontracted by the EL4
consultant to undertake specialized impact assessments on natural ecology and biodiversity inthe project
area.

The EIA report states that "the project will not reduce biodiversity through species extinction, the impact
to biodiversity i s mainly fragmentation o f ecosystem and possibly wildlife re-grouping." The report
concludes that the proposed highway does not "involve the significant conversion o f natural habitats" or
"involve the significant conversion or degradation" o f any "critical natural habitat." Tlie EIA also
indicates that the Huangshan Mountain Authority is outstanding interms o f scenic park management-it
has received inany awards, including the 1999 UNESCO International Prize for Safeguarding and
Management o f Cultural Landscapes. I t i s one of the only three park authorities inthe world to be so
recognized. The Huangshan Mountain Authority is fully aware o f the expected increase in tourism and
the environmental pressure the increase will exert. The Huangslian Mountain Master Plan i s under
revision, and a series o f actions are being or will be undertaken to accoinniodate tlie anticipated increase
intourism.

Two rounds o f public consultation (during the preparation o f the TOR and after the completion o f the
first draft) were undertaken through public meetings, site visits, questionnaire surveys, interviews, group
discussions, and opinion-soliciting letters. A total o f 3,109 people such as fanners and villagers,
representatives o f local communities, and nongovernmental organizations, experts inenvironmental and
social fields, and officials o f relevant government agencies were consulted, and their views were
incorporated inthe design o f the project.

5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?

APCD engaged the Shanghai Ship and Shipping Research Institute (SSSRI) to undertake the EIAand the
EMP. The EMP identifies the institutional responsibilities for environmental management and
 supervision for both the construction and operation phases o f tlie project. It includes measures for
 avoiding, minimizing, mitigating, or otherwise compensating for the adverse impacts o f the project. It
 includes feasible and cost-effective measures necessary to mitigate project-related impacts by
 incorporating them inproject design and implementing them during the construction and operation
phases. It also includes clauses for the contract documents and links to tlie biddingdocuments. The E M P
 contains an environmental monitoringplan and specifies capacity training arrangements and the budget


                                                       - 20 -

needed to implement the proposed mitigation and monitoring measures. The contractors compliance with
the environmental provisions o f contract documents will be supervised by APCD and the supervision
consultants duringconstruction and monitored by the Bank during tlie supervision missions.

5.3 For Category A and B projects, tiineline and status o f EA:
                     Date o f receipt o f final draft: December 2002

The initial terms o f reference for preparing the EIA and EMP were compiled in February 2002 and were
reviewed, revised, and approved by the State Environmental Protectioii Agency inApril 2002. The first
draft EL4report was prepared inAugust 2002. Following comments by the Bank, the draft EIA was
revised and submitted to the State EnvironmentalProtection Agency inDecember 2002 and to the Bank
as well. Taking into account the Bank's comments, the final drafts o f the environmental assessment
documents were submitted to the Bank on December 27,2002, and were found to be satisfactory. APCD
has informedthe Bank that the State Environmental ProtectionAgency approved the Chinese version o f
the EINEMP inApril 2003.

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) eiivironinental screening and (b) draft EA
report on tlie eiivironmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?

Duringthe preparationo fthe EIA,two rounds ofpublic consultation were undertaken. Public meetings
were held, site visits, questionnaire surveys, interviews, and group discussions were conducted, and
opinion-soliciting letters were sent. Fanners and villagers who may be affected by the construction and
operation o f the proposed TTH and the improvement o f the rural roads were consulted. Also consulted
were local communities, nongovernmental organizations, experts invarious environmental and social
fields, and relevant government agencies, particularly the authorities o f the scenic zones.

The first round of consultationfor TTH was undertaken April 5-29, 2002, after draft TOR were
prepared, when the public was informed about the project and initial feedback was collected. The second
round o f consultationwas undertaken from June 17-July 5,2002, when the results o f the draft
environmental assessment and the proposed mitigation measures were presented to the public. A total o f
2,348 persons were consulted, and their views and general findings are incorporated inthe design and the
construction implementation and supervision o f the project. Similar consultation with 770 persons was
conducted along the five rural roads.

Inaddition, ahotline was establishedsothat stakeholders couldexpress their concerns throughout the
EL4preparation period. Information received from the hotline has beenrecorded inthe eiivironmental
assessment and incorporated into project designprocess when appropriate.

Incompliance withEL4processrequirements inChinaandthe WorldBank's safeguardpolicies, the
TOR o fthe EIAhave been disclosed by beingmade available inprovincial and city libraries since June
 19,2002, and the public being informed about the availability o f the report by advertisement inthe Anhui
Daily (of June 20, 2002), the website o f APCD, and local radio and television. The completeddraft EL4
 and E M P reports were displayed inpublic places along the expressway and the rural roads under the
project, and the public was advised o f project information and the availability o f these reports by
 advertisement inDecember 2002 as well as on the website o f APCD.




                                                        -21 -

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to inonitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the E M P ?

The E M P includes environmental monitoring programs for both the construction and operation phases.
Noise levels, air quality, and water quality will be monitored. APCD will engage independent and
accredited professional environmental monitoring institutes to undertake the enviroiimental monitoring:

         e    duringthe construction phase-once    a month for noise, water quality, and dust (once a
              month for lime and earth-mixing sites, and once a week for asphalt-mixing stations); and

         e    duringthe operation phase-twice    a year for air quality and noise and once a year for water
              quality.

Inaddition, visual inspectionfor water anddustpollution, simple monitoringofnoisewithportablenoise
meters, and supervision o f other environmental issues such as soil erosion, waste disposal, management
o f labor camps, and safety during construction will be conducted by trained environmental staff from the
contractors, supervision engineers and the PEO o n a daily basis. Contractors and supervision engineers
are required to submit monthly environmental monitoring reports to the PEO. Duringloan negotiation,
the Bank obtained assurances from APCD that: (a) the environmental protection measures stipulated in
the EMP with regardto the mainhighway and rural roads would be implementedin a manner satisfactory
to the Bank; and (b) APCD would f i n i s h to the Bank quarterly and annual environmental monitoring
reports for TTH and the rural roads duringthe construction phase and annual reports during the first
three years o f operation following the completion o f the project.

6. Social:
6.1 Summnarizekey social issues relevant to the project ObjeL"es, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

TTHwill be locatedinthe poorer areas o fAnliuiProvince, and the RRIP is a poverty-reduction
intervention. Consequently, the project will strengthen and complement Government poverty alleviation
efforts by providing more efficient and less costly means o f transportation to people inthe poor areas.
Besides the social assessment, a separate study was conducted by Zhongshan University from
Guangdong Province to assess the project impacts o n poverty reduction. The study was conducted
through collection and analysis o f government statistics and poverty target programs, meetings with local
government leaders and fanners, focus group discussions, interviews and case analysis.

The social assessment was conducted incommunities affected both directly and indirectly by the project.
It screened the socioeconomic settings, brought out the key social development issues inthe project
areas, and facilitated community consultation through focus group discussions, interviews, and
questionnaire surveys, and made recoinmendations for the project design. Feedback givenduring
consultations with the communities was incorporated into the project design. According to govemment
statistics, there are no ethnic minority coinmunities inthe project areas. Field work conducted duringthe
social assessment confirmed this infonnation.

Duringthe project planningprocess, the PEO conducted a survey along the project alignment to
determine impacts on cultural properties. Professional experts from Anhui Archaeology and Sociology
Institutejoined the survey team. The screening, the survey process, and findings were documented inthe
project environmental assessment.



                                                     - 22 -

The inajor adverse social impacts o f the project are related to land acquisition and the resettlement o f
affected households. Minimizing resettlement was a key criterion for selecting the alignment for the TTH
froin the alternatives considered. APCD engaged Anhui Highway Design Institute and East China
Hydropower Survey and Design Institute to carry out the resettlement planning. The resettlement
planning process included an inventory o f all affected assets, a ceiisus o f tlie affected population, a
socioeconomic survey, detailed consultation with the resettlers about livelihoodrehabilitation measures,
and a social assessment conducted by the Across-Cultural Research Center o f Zhongshan University in
Guangdong Province.

The TTH component o f the project will require:
         acquisition o f 9,365 muo f land, 4,440 inuo f which i s fannland, affecting a population o f 9,963
         people in 2,611 households;

    0    demolition o f 86,614 square meters o f housing requiring the relocation o f 1,8 15 people in430
         households; and

    0    relocation o f 24 small business.

The RRIP component meets criteria that include poverty and other social indicators. Field surveys
confirm that the RFUP will not require land acquisition or the relocation o f households. The Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP) contains details about census, inventory, legal framework, relocation programs,
livelihoodrehabilitation programs, resettlement budget, iinpleiiieiitation schedule, institutional setup,
consultations, and monitoring arrangements and has been reviewed by the goveniinent and the Bank.The
RAP is suimnarized inAnnex 13.

6.2 ParticipatoryApproach: H o w are key stakeholders participating inthe project?

All the affected households andvillages have been identifiedthrough the census and social assessment.
Project information was provided to the affected villages aiid local goveriiineiits through newspaper
announcement, posters, and public meetings. Particular attention was given to the screening for ethnic
minority groups inthe project areas to ensure that they were identified. Focus group discussions, key
infonnant interview, and questionnaire surveys were conducted to disseminate project infonnation,
collect people's concerns, needs with people affected by the project, and recoinmeiidatioiis, and consult
with tlie affected people inthe development o fthe resettlement and rehabilitation strategy.

Infonnationdissemination and consultation will continue duringproject implementation. A resettlement
infonnation booklet, including detailedinfonnation about entitlements and compensation o f each
householdas well as entitlement policies and grievance procedures will be distributed to the affected
people before resettlement implementation. The affected coimiiuiiities will play a key role in finalizing
 and implementing their livelihoodrestoration programs. Both intenial and independent monitoring o f the
 resettlement will be designed inthe Resettlement Action Plan for project iinpleinentation. The
 resettlement action plans were placed inlocal libraries and their availability were advertised inlocal
 newspapers.

 6.3 H o w does the project involve coiisultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
 organizations?

 The Cross-Cultural Research Center o f Zhongshan University in Guangdong conducted the social
 assessment and assessedthe project's impact on poverty reduction. East China Hydropower Survey and
 Design Institute and the Anhui Highway Design Institute carried out resettlement planning. At the same



                                                     - 23 -

time, village committees and farmer groups were consulted and participated inthe resettlement planning
process and the preparation o f the project.

6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

APCD has developed experience inpreparing and implementing the ongoing Anliui Highway Project. It
will establish a siinilar institutional setupfor the implementation o f the proposed project. The
institutional arrangements for resettlement implementationare detailed inthe RAP. A monitor who i s
independent o f the Anhui Provincial Government and the PEO will be contracted to conduct the
independent monitoringo f the resettlement program. The project will be monitored and the living
standards o f the project-affected people will be evaluated throughout project implementation. The
monitoring results will be reportedregularly and, ifnecessary, remedial actions will be designed.

6.5 H o w will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes'?

See E. 6.4.




    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                     Yes 0  KO
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                      YCS e  NO
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                        Yes 0  NO

    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                .Yes       N o
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                     Yes 0  NO
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                        0   Yes    NO
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                                Yes 0  KO
    Projects in InternationalWaters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                      Yes 0  NO
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                          Yes 0  NO



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.

For OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, see Section E.5.For OP 4.12,
Involuntary Resettlement, see Section E.6.

 F. Sustainability and Risks
 1. Sustainability:

  Experience from completed and ongoing Bank-financed highway projects indicates a strong commitment
 among Chinese officials to implement the physical components. Counterpart funds are generally made
 available on time. However, when the province faces financial constraints due to the general policy o f
 speeding up investment inthe highway sector, funds are sometimes diverted from maintenance to
 construction. T o mitigate this tendency, about 10percent o f project funds is allocated to improvingthe
 existing roads, especially inpoorer areas.




                                                      - 24 -

The level o f tolls will be reviewed periodically so that the project proves to be financially and
economically viable and the province can repay the Bank loan and provide inaiiiteiiaiice when required.
Recommendations from the studies on toll rates and toll highway operation conductedunder the ongoing
Anhui Highway Project will be taken hlly into consideration inthe proposedproject.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found iiithe fourth column o f Annex 1):

                    Risk                           Risk Rating                   Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputsto Objective
Traffic does not grow as projected in                  M             Critical review o f traffic studies by the Bank.
the Tongling-Tangkou corridor

Sector organization, operation, and                    M             The Bank will maintain an effective dialogue
management are not improved.                                         with the proviiicial government duringproject
                                                                     implementation.
Training programs are not relevant and                 M             Proper training subjects and trainees will be
managers are unwilling to give                                       selected according to the established criteria.
opportunities to trainees to apply new
skills.
From Componentsto Outputs
Political pressures interfere with                      M            A realistic implementationprogram was
implementation and adversely affect the                              prepared and assurance was sought during
quality o f construction.                                            project preparation that the agreed
                                                                     iinpleineiitatioii schedule will be followed.

Counterpart resources are not made                      M            Assurance was sought froin the central and
available ina timely manner.                                         local governments during project preparation
                                                                     that providing counterpart resources will
                                                                     remain a highpriority.

Traffic safety audit i s not implemented.               M            Supervision inissioiis will focus on the
                                                                     implementationo f the traffic safety audit.


Overall Risk Rating                                     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris , M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1eor Low Risk)


3. Possible Controversial Aspects:

None.

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition

The effectiveness condition i s the issuance o f acceptable legal opinions.




                                                       - 25 -

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used intlie Legal Agreeinelits.]

2.1 Agreement reached with the Government:

The Borrower ensured that the proceeds o f the loanwould be on-lent to the Beneficiary (AnhuiProvince)
on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with the Beneficiary bearing tlie foreign exchange
risk.

2.2 Agreement Reached with the Beneficiary:

a. Tongling-Tangkou Highway

        APCD shall carry out the EMP and RAP ina manner satisfactory to the Bank and furnishto the
        Bank for its prior approval any proposed revision to such plans;
        APCD shall prepare and furnish to the Bank: (i)     an annual enviroiiiiiental inonitoring report by
        May 15 o f each year, commencing May 15,2004, and untilcompletion o f the project; and (ii)        by
        May 15 and November 15 o f each year, coinmencing November 15,2003, through the second
        year following completion o f the project, an internal monitoring report o f tlie resettlement
        implementation activities and results thereof during the immediately preceding six-month period;
        APCD shall prepare and furnish to the Bank by February 15 and August 15 o f each year,
        coinmencing on February 15,2004, through the second year following completion o f
        resettlement activities under the project, an external monitoring report on the resettlement
        implementation activities and the results thereofprepared by an independent entity acceptable to
        the Bank, during the same six-month period referred to in clause (ii)    above;
        APCD shall prepare and furnish to the Bank monthly progress reports on the TTH civil works,
        commencing February 15, 2004, and untilcompletion o f the civil works under the project; and

        APCD shall undertake and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments an aiialysis and
        recommendation o f the structure o f toll rates on TTH by June 30, 2006, taking into consideration
        the results o f studies about this issue conducted under other Bank-financedhighway projects in
        China, the experience with toll rates on major roads inAnliui and other parts o f China, and the
        results o f surveys o f user responses to tolls.

b. Rural RoadImprovement Program

    0   APCD shall carry out the EMP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and furnishto the Bank for
        its prior approval any proposed revision to such plans; and

        APCD shall prepare and furnishto the Bank an annual monitoring report by May 15 o f each year
        commencing May 15, 2004, and untilcompletion o f the project.

c. Highway safety

    0    APCD shall, by December 31, 2005, complete the program o f improvements o f black segments
         and blackspots; and

    0    APCD shall complete under tenns o f reference acceptable to the Bank a training program on a
         safety audit schedule by March 31,2005.




                                                      - 26 -

d. Institutional strengtheningand training

   e    APCD shall, by November 15 o f each year, commencing November 15, 2003, and until
        coinpletion o f the project, furnish to the Bank an annual training program and cai-ry out such
        program taking into account the Bank's comments, if any;
        APCD shall complete and furnish, by June 30, 2005, the recoinmendations of the study on
        construction supervision and promptly prepare and carry out an action plan, taking into account
        the Bank's coinments on the recommendations, if any; and

   e    APCD shall coinplete and furnish, by June 30, 2005, the recoinmendations o fthe study on the
        overloading o f vehicles and promptly prepare and carry out an action plan, taking into account
        the Bank's coinments on the recoinmendations, if any.

e. Reporting,monitoringand auditing

        APCD shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
        ongoing basis, inaccordance with indicators acceptable to tlie Bank, the carrying out o f the
        project, including the implementation o f the EMPs, tlie RAP, and the achieveinent o f the
        objectives o f the project;
        APCD shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than February 15, M a y 15, August 15 and
        November 15 o f each year, commencing February 15,2004, and untilcoinpletion o f the project,
        quarterly progress reports on the implementation o f the project; and

        APCD shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, on or about February 15 o f each year, commencing
        February 15, 2004, a report integrating the results o f the inonitoriiig and evaluation activities on
        the progress achieved inthe carrying out o f the project duringthe period preceding the date o f
         said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
        project and the achievement o f the objectives thereof duringtlie period following such date and
        thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient coinpletion o f the project and the
         achievement o f the objectives thereof, on the basis o f tlie conclusions and recoinmendations o f
        the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.


H. Readiness for Implementation
    1.a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
~-       start o f project implementation.
-   1. b) Not applicable.

   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start o f
x3.The project implementation.
           Project Implementation Planhas been appraised and foundto be realistic and o f satisfactory

3      quality.
   4. The following items are lacking and are discussedunder loan coiiditioiis (Section G):




                                                     - 27 -

1.Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
  2. The following exceptions to Bankpolicies are recommended for approval. The project complies
     with all other applicable Bankpolicies.




                                      Jitendra N.Bajpai
Team Leader                           Sector ManagerlDirector




                                                 - 28 -

                                    Annex I: Project Design Summary
                                 CHINA: Second Anhui Highway Project
                                    Key Performance              Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives                 Indicators                                               Critical AssumDtions
Sector-related CAS Goal:       ,ectorIndicators:                 iectorlcountryreports:        'romGoal to Bank Mission)
Strengthen transport links                                                                      conoinic activity increases
withinand to lagging regions                                                                    nd accessibility improves in
                                                                                                I1 areas in the province.
                                                                                                )pportunities are enhanced in
                                                                                                11 sectors and contributions
                                                                                                re made to sustainable
                                                                                                nd equitable development.



                               htcome I Impact                   'roject reports:               ?om Objectiveto Goal)
Objective:                     idicators:
Support the social and         ieduced time spent on             'ravel speed and average       konomic conditions inthe
economic development o f         intraprovincial trips           lady traffic (ADT) on existing ountry and provinces remain
Anhui Province byproviding                                       oads                           3bust.
an efficient, safe, and          Lower traffic accident
cost-effective highway           fatality rate                   Progress on rural road         Counterpart hnds are not
infrastructure                                                    ehabilitation                 verextended and road
                                                                                                iaintenance is sustained.
                                                                 Progress on traffic safety




Output from each               Iutput Indicators:                Jrojectreports:                from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
 1. Transport capacity along     .1 ADT on new highway           'roject performance            iector organization, operation,
the TTH corridor increased     mndexisting road                  nonitoring reports             nd management improve.
and market integration inthe     .2 Average travel time on
low-income areas promoted      he new highway and
                               :xistingroad

 2. Existing road network      !.1 ADT on rural roads in         Project performance
    inlow-income areas         tffected areas                     nonitoring reports
    improved                   L.2 Household incomes in
                               tffected areas
                                L.3 Number o f poor
                                )opulation in the project
                                iffected area

 3. Traffic safety on existing 3.1 Number o f traffic             Project performance report
    network improved            iccidents causing fatalities anc
                                ;erious injuries reduced

 4. Technical and               1.1 Qualitative evaluation        Quarterly progress and annual rraining programs prove
    management capacity of      indicating the sharing o f new    monitoring reports            .elwant and managers willing


                                                             - 29 -

  APCD and its related       nowledge and the exercising                                        o give opportunities to
  departments strengthened    I fnew skills b y staff trained                                   rainees to apply new skills.
                             inder the project, as well as
                             inprovement o f performance
                             n specific functions and
                              ctivities




'roject Components I          nputs: (budgetfor each              'roject reports:              from Components to
;ub-components:               :omponent)                                                        )utputs)
 . Construction o f TTH       JSS496.46 inillion                  4onthly reports for civil     'olitical pressures do not
                                                                  iorks                         nterfere with implementation
                                                                                                .nd adversely affect the
                                                                                                luality o f construction.

!. RuralRoadImprovement       JSS69.13 million                    !uarterly progress report for 2ounterpart resources are
  Prograin                                                        i e entire project            nade available in a timely
                                                                                                nanner,

3. Highway safety             JSS2.51 million                     innual monitoring reports     rraffic safety audit is
                                                                                                niplemented.

1. Strengthening o f highway  JS$l1.35 inillion                                                 lpportunities are opened to
  management capacity and                                                                       rainees to apply new skills in
  training                                                                                      he workplace.

5. Provision o f road
  maintenance equipment

6. Land Acquisition and       US$20.35 million
Resettlement

      Total Project Cost      LJS$607.45 million

Interest during construction  US$21.88 inillion

Front-end fee                 US$2.50 million

Total FinancingRequired       US$631.83 million




                                                             - 30 -

                                                   Annex 1-1
                            Key Performance and Development Indicators


   Attainment of                                          2002      2005      2006       2008
JrojectObjectives            MonitoringIndicators       Baseline   Benchmark Benchmark Benchmark
'rovide an efficient, Traveltime in the TTH Corridor
,afeand cost          @in.)                                 230       255       265         85
:ffective highway
nfrastructure
                      f i T on TTH (veh./day in
                      absolute number)
                           Tongling - Xiaxichong                                         7,900
                           Xiaxichong Qingyang                                           7,900
                           Qingyang Yangmei                                              7,900
                           Yangmei Gantang                                               7,700
                           Gantang ---Tanjiaqiao
                                       -

                                                                                         7,700
                           Tanjiaqiao - Shancha                                          6.800
                      ADT on existing S103 and G205
                      (veh./day inabsolute number)
                           Tongling                       6,800                8,000     5,500
                           Qingyang Yangmei               6,800      7,700     8,000     5,500
                           Yangmei Gantang                6,600      7,700     7,700     5,400
                           Gantang --Tanjiaqiao
                                    --Qingyang

                                                          6,600      7,400     7,700     5,400
                           Tanjiaqiao Shancha
                                      -                   6,100      7,400
                                                                     6,400     7,200     6,700

                      ADT on RRIP roads (veh. /day in
                      MTEN
                           Shitai- Qiaotoudian             1,900     2,200     2,300     2,400
                           Jingxian - Maolin               1,700     1,900     2,000     2,200
                           Xianyuan -Xinilling-Sanxi       1,900     2,200     2,300     2,400
                           Hongmen    - Jinde              1,600     1,800     1,900     2,000
                           Xinqiao - Dabeifu               1,700      1,900    2,100     2,200
                      Household incomes in affected        (2001)
                       areas (yuan)
                           Qingyang                       2,194      2,600     2,700     3,000
                           Shitai                          1,152      1,400    1,500      1,600
                           Jingxian                        2,384     2,800     3,000      3,200
                           Huangshan                       1,510      1,800    1,900      2,100
                           Jinde                           2,436     2,900     3,000      3,300
                           Ningguo                         2,506      3,000    3,100      3,400
                           Qimen                           2,042      2,500    2,600      2,800
                       Accident rates (timesikrdyr) on     (200 1)
                           Hefei-Huainan (3206              1.80       2.28      I.46      1.53
                           Maanshan-Nangling G205           1.49       1.89      1.21      1.26
                       Number of poor population           (200 1)
                           Qingyang                      48,500      36,000   33,400     20,186
                           Shitai                        57,700      42,800   39,700  -A 24,886
                           Jingxian                      58,400      43,400   40,300     25,55 1
                           Huangshan                      14,700     I1,600    10,900     7,158
                           Jinde                          13,700     10,900    10,300     6,4 19
                           Ningguo                       26,000      22,000   21,100     13,857
                           Qimen                          18,500     14,100    13,200     9,883




                                                      - 31 -

                                   2003   2004     2005   2006   2007   2008

YOofcivil works completedon TTH            35        66    90    I00

YOof highwaysiniprovedi
rehabilitatedunder RRIP



%of unprovedblackspotsisegments         I  50    I  loo I      I      I
Y ofpreparationofaction plans(two          15        45    35      5
studies)

% ofperson-monthsof completed              20        40    60     80     too
training




                                           - 32 -

                               Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                               CHINA: Second Anhui Highway Project

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$524.05 million
                      -

Highway Capacity Expansion

Constructionof the Tongling-TangkouHighway-- US$496.46 million
1.      Construction o f the 116 kmTongling-Tangkou Highway (TTH) i s tlie main project component.
The proposed TTH is a segment o f the Tianjin-Shanwei Highway originating inTianjin in the north and
terminating in Shanwei, Fujian, inthe south. It forms part o f the National Trunk Highway (not NTHS).
TTH traverses the low-income southeastern areas o fAnhui and linkswith tlie major provincial cities and
eventually with coastal provinces through NTHS. The TTH alignment runs near the
UNESCO-recognized Huangshan and Jiuhuashan scenic sites and passes through Taipiiig Lake, a popular
scenic lake inthe province. Inthe north, TTH links to Lujiang-Tongling Expressway, which is under
construction and i s expected to be completed by December 2005. Construction o f the southern link from
Tangkou to the AnhdZhejiang border is scheduled for the eleventh Five-Year Plan, which starts in
2006. The extended southern section will connect to the Tunxi-Jingdezlien Expressway to the west and
Huizhou-Hangzhou Expressway to the east at Huangshan City. When tlie plannedhighwaynetwork is
complete, improved accessibility to these low-income areas will result in an increase injob opportunities
inagriculture and tourism-related industries and consequently will promote social and econoinic
development in the area.

2.      TTH is divided into two sections, one o f 57 kmbetween Toiigling and Yangmei village with a
design speed o f 100 Whr, and another o f 59 kmfrom Yanginei village to Tangkou with a design speed
o f 80 ludhr.The existing road from Shancha interchange to Tangkou township with a total length o f 6
kmwill be improvedbefore the proposedTTHopens. TTHincludes nine tunnels o fa total o f 12,600
meters, six interchanges, five toll stations, and three rest areas. It also includes one management and
maintenance center near Gantang. The TTH will operate as a closed toll highway system. I t also will
include electrical and mechanical facilities for tolling, monitoring, telecoimnuiiications. and lighting.

Supervisionof Construction US$8.13 million
                                --
3.       A supervision team o fboth local finns and international consultants, headedby a chief
supervision engineer, will supervise the construction o f TTH in accordance with FIDICprovisions. The
following aspects o f the construction supervision teain's organization have been determined:

        e    The chief supervision engineers' office will have 30 staff in four divisions (engineering and
             technical, laboratory, administrative, and finance).

        e    Four resident offices will be established along tlie alignment o f TTH. These offices will be
             responsible for the field supervision o f international competitive bidding (ICB) contracts for
             civil works, and o f national competitive bidding (NCB) contracts for electrical and
             mechanical (E&M) facilities and buildingworks.

        0    Resident offices will be staffed with 150 domestic supervisors (for about 5,000
             person-months), corresponding to one personper lun.




                                                      - 33 -

        0   Three foreign engineers (full time and part time) will be integrated into tlie core supervision
            team. They will provide services for project and contract management, earth and pavement
            works, bridge construction, and training o f local supervision staff before contractors are
            mobilized. These services are estimated at 79 person-months, including about 3
            person-months for the training services.

        0   Foreign consultants will be recruitedthrough international competitive selection, and the
            Bank and the Borrower will agree on their terms o f reference and schedule.

        0   Local supervisor engineers will be hired according to MOC regulations and procedures.

LandAcquisition andResettlement US$20.35 million
                                       --
4.      The construction o f TTH will affect 2,611 families (9,963 persons) and require tlie acquisition o f
about 9,365 inuo f land and the relocation o f 470 households. Inaddition, an estimated 2,525 muo f land
will be occupiedtemporarily duringconstruction, generally at sites o fmajor bridges and tunnels. Surveys
undertaken during project preparation have determined baseline data on income levels and standards o f
living. Coinpensation rates have been fixed after consultations with local governments and affected
people to ensure that the living standards o f the affected population are restored or improved and that
affected assets are compensatedat replacement cost. Landacquisition and resettlement costs include
coinpensation to affected individuals and the reconstruction o f public facilities. The land acquisition and
resettlement component i s discussed in detail inAnnex 13.

ProjectComponent 2 US$69.13million
                      -

Rural Road Improvement Program
5.      The rural road improvement prograin (RRIP) has been designed to help people in poor counties
increase their incomes by improving access to product markets, employment opportunities. and social
services and facilities. This program includes roads totaling about 243 kilometers in length, o f which 118
kmare Class I11roadand 125 kmare Class IV.The current Class IIUIV roads will be upgraded to the
Class IUIIIstandard. Intlie long term, these road improvements will provide the poor in these counties
the opportunity to increase their incomes and improve their general welfare.

6.      Among 13 prescreenedroad sections inlow-income counties, 5 sections with a total length o f
243 kmwere selected on the basis o f the following criteria (see Map IBRD 32133):

        0   current road condition;

        0   lack o f altemative transport infrastructure;

        0   expected impact on people's access to education, health, and other social activities, and on
            economic development;

        0   contribution to a provincial plan to improve the functional responsiveness o f the highway
            network;

        0   strong support by local government and residents; and

        0   expected EIRRo f higher than 20 percent.

The five road sections are incounties with a per capita cash income o f households o f between Y 1,164
and Y 2,697, which i s less than halfthe average inAnhuiProvince.




                                                      - 34 -

7.                        Implementation.The five roadsections to be improvedwill be divided into 13 contracts with an
average length o f about 19 kmand a total cost o f about USS60.5 million, o f which the Bank loan will
finance 40 percent. All contracts will be procuredusingthe N C B procedure. The supervision o f the
works will be organized by a local construction headquarters established by the Anhui Highway
Administration Bureau under APCD, and the domestic supervisors will be selected according to M O C
regulations. Supervision efforts are estimated at US$1.2 million. The sections will be improved from
2003 through 2007. The details are shown inTable A.

8.                        Monitoringand performanceindicatorsThe monitoring indicators include the following:

                      0                      average daily traffic inabsolute number and medium truck equivalents (MTE);

                       0                     number o f daily bus services along the route;

                       0                     ratio o f children attending secondary schools;

                       0                     number o f poor population;

                                             per capita cash income o f households; and

                       0                     gross output value o f farming, forestry, animal husbandry, and fisheries.

Baseline data for these indicators will be established, and target values will be estimated. The Bank and
APCD will review the implementationo f the programduring supervision missions, and results will be
compared with those agreed on duringthe previous year.

                                                                                Table A: RuralRoadImprovement Program(RRIP)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GOV of
                                                                                                                               Estimated Per Capita          Total                     Poor                         Farming,
    No.                                      Road                               County                Length Class of             Cost   Cash Income Population in                   Population                      Forestry,
                                             Section                                                  (km)          Road*         (Y          o f            2000                     in 2000                         Animal
                                                                                                                                million) Households                                                               Husbandry
    .........................................     .......".."....."......""".."l...._ll_._ll" ......-"   .... .... .....                 I!!.2999..(UI.... ..,, ....................,
                                                                                                                                                                                ..         ...........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 iX.!!!i!!.i?!!L
            1              S325, Shitai-                                Qingyang,                      74           ll/lII        148        2,237            280,000                      527                            459
                           Qiaotoudian                                  Shitai                                        (III)                   1,164            1 11,000                 19,133                              162
                           Section
            2 S322, Jing-                                               Jing                           35           ll/lII         70        2,285             359,000                   1,582                             709
                           Maolin                                                                                       (IV)
                            Section
            3               Xianyuan-                                   Huangshan                      44           Il/l I I       88        2,697             162,000                   1,806                             986
                            Xinming-                                    District,                                      (I I I)                2,321            152,000                   4,445                             368
                            Sanxi                                       Jinde
            4 S323,                                                     Ningguo,                       38           ll/lII         90         2,136            381,000                     332                         1,023
                            Hongmen-                                    Jinde                                           (IV)                  2,32 1           152,000                   4,445                             368
                            Jinde Section
             5              S221 Xinqiao-                                Qimen                         52                1 1 1    104         1,856            185,000                   1,148                             348
                            Dabeitun                                                                                    (IV)
                           Total                                            Seven                     243                         500         5,293        62;780,000                    463,726

    *--Roman                                  numeral in parentheses indicates the current class o f the road.
    Source: 2001 Anhui Statistical Yearbook and Feasibility Study Report for Tongling-Tangkou Highway




                                                                                                                               - 35 -

Project Component 3 US$2.51 million
                           -

Highway Safety
9.            APCD has undertaken a highway safety component uiider the ongoing highway project.
However, because o f the diffusion o f responsibilities between the APCD and the traffic police, the first
project included a relatively small safety component, priinarily inthe APCD's domain: a study on
highway traffic accidents; a pilot program for treatment o f blackspots; aiid provisioii o f iiistitutioiial
strengthening and training. The ongoing highway safety prograin was reviewed and it was found that it i s
s t i l l difficult to address highway safety issues in a comprehensive manner. While coiitiiiuiiig to inake
efforts to establish good coordinationbetween the Commuiiicatioiis Department and the traffic police,
the project will continue working on the engineering aspects o f highway safety. The safety component
for the proposed project consists o f the treatment o f black segments aiid blackspots and safety training.

10.           Black segments and blackspots.The proposedprogram was derived froin the results o f the
Study o f Highway Accidents completed under tlie previous project. An analysis o f traffic accident data
for the period December 26, 1998, to May 25, 2001, identified 42 black segments and 13 black spots on
3,253 kmroad sections inAnhui.After due consideration, it was agreed that tlie followiiig highway
sectioiis would be targeted for remedial actions under the project:

                  Hefei to Huainan section o f G206 (114 km); and

             0    Maaiishanto Nanling section o f G205 (88 lun).

The proposed remedial actions will consist o f : i)improveineiit o f black segments; ii)iinproveineiit o f
black spots; iii)improvement o f intersections; and iv) sigiiiiig aiid marking.                                       t


11.           Improvement works for the black segments and black spots are estimated at USS2.51 million.
Detailed designs o f the first batch o f civil works, including installing traffic safety facilities, will be
completedby July 2003, aiid the entire prograin will be implementedfroin 2004 to 2005. Work on about
20 locations will be grouped into two coiitract packages aiid procuredthrough NCB.

 12.           Safety training. The proposedtraining prograin will focus on safety audits for designs,
construction, operation, and maintenance o f highways. Safety audit procedures aiid inaiiuals were
developed uiider other Bank-financed highway projects aiid these will be good sources o f training
materials.

Project Component4 US$2.78 million
                            -

 Institutional Development and Road Sector Management
 13.            The objective o f this component i s to improve the efficiency and sustaiiiability o f the highway
 sector management inAnhui Province. This coinponent iiivolves a training program for staff o f APCD
 and its related agencies and technical assistance on policy reform 011 highway maiiiteiiaiice (overloading
 vehicles) and construction supervision.

 Subcomponent4.1           -- Training  Program -- US$2.28 million
 14.            A training programunder the previous project has startedto streiigtheii the capacity o fAPCD
 and its related agencies. The proposed training program was developed 011 the basis o f tlie following
 principles:




                                                          - 36 -

             The training program will take into consideration organizational reform and restructuring
             duringthe Tenth Five-Year Plan.
             Training aspects will be directly related to the implementation o f various components o f the
             project.
             Tlie training programwill buildon training begununder tlie previous project without
             duplicating those programs.
             All instructors will be requiredto produce proper and up-to-date written training materials,
             and participants will receive copies o f these course materials.
             Training courses will reflect the ongoing activities o f Aiihui Highway Project and will be
             designed to add value to various aspects o f the project.

The training program will cost an estimated USS2.28 million and will include overseas study tours (14
person-months), training courses abroad (93 person-months) and domestic courses (848 person-months).
The training program will be updated periodically duringproject implementation.

Subcomponent4.2       -- Study   onPracticesandFutureDirections in Construction Supervision          --
US$0.26 million
15.     The study will examine the status o f tlie supervision industry, tlie way supervision firms are
selected, the composition o f supervision teams, the roles and responsibilities o f members on a
supervision team, the relationships between clients and contractors, and reporting procedures. The study
will take into consideration the experiences o f other provinces and other countries. Tlie study will
investigate the possibility o f introducing a separate and independent quality control team.

Subcomponent4.3       -- Study   on OverloadingVehicles US$0.24 million
                                                             --
16.       The purpose o f this subcomponent is to provide APCD with a modern tool for managingroad
assets to address the overloading o f vehicles, which is one o f tlie more difficult asset management
questions. The proposed task will support the preparation and evaluation o f a pilot program on control
practicalities and applicable measures, with a view to developing a comprehensive provincial policy and
regulation framework. The study will be organized as follows:
             a practical study o f the nature and extent o f overloading;
             selection o f the four most serious locations;

             investigation o f the feasibility o f mobile inspection stations;
             staff training;

             development o f rules and regulations;
             construction o f four inspection stations, ifnecessary;

             implementation o f inspection and enforcement, including regulations;

             monitoring o f the pilot inspectionprogram and development o f a comprehensive inspection
             policy; and

             drawing up o f regulations on overloaded vehicles applicable to tlie whole province.




                                                       - 37 -

                                         Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                                   CHINA: Second Anhui Highway Project


I            Project Cost by Component                                   Local             Foreign                Total
                                                                     US $million         US $million          US $million
  1. Works
       a) Tongling-TangkouHighway(TTH)                                    256.54              178.13              434.67
              i)CivilWorks                                                246.83              163.22              410.05
             ii)E&MFacilities                                                3.09               12.09               15.18
             iii)Buildings                                                   6.62                2.82                9.44
       b) RRIP                                                             42.46                18.07              60.53




I                                     Total Proiect Cost'         I       377.69       1      229.76        1      607.45     I
  8. Interest during construction                                            0.00               2 1.88              21.88
  9. Front-end fee                                                           0.00                2.50                2.50
                              Total Financing Required                    377.69              254.14               631.83



                Project Cost by Category                                  Local             Foreign               Total
                                                                     US $million         US $million          US $million




 Note 1: ldcntifiable taxes and duties arc USS13.69 million, and the total projcct cost, net oftaxes. i s IJSShl7.14 million.
 Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 41.23% oftotal project cost net ufraxcs.




                                                               - 38 -

                               Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
                                CHINA: Second Anhui Highway Project



Summaryof BenefitsandCosts:
1.       The economic internal rate o f return (EIRR) o f the project is 20.8 percent and the net present
value (NPV) i s Y 3,647.1 million (12 percent). The economic evaluation o f the project covers the
following two project components:

                construction o f the 116.15 kmTongling-Tangkou Highway (TTH); and

           0    upgrading of the five rural roads (total 243 km) in the low-income areas included inthe
                Rural Road Improvement Program (RRIP).

2.       The EIRRs of the project coinponents and the overall project EIRR, calculated usingvehicle
operating cost (VOC), are summarized inthe following table.


                   ""                      y of*EconomicEvaluationResults
                                                              (ill%I)    NPV (Y 111
                  Tongling-TongkouHighway(TTH).
                    Section 1. Tongling- Yangmeicun         24 3               2,027 3
                    Section2. Yangmeicun- Tanjlaqiao        20 5                1,400 0
                    Section3. Tanjiaqlao-Tongkou             9 0                (1364)
                                 Subtotal                   207                3,320 6
                  RuralRoadImprovementProgram(RRIP)         21 4                 326 5
                                  Total                                        3,647.1-
                        I_-_-c---




Main Assumptions:

3.       The analysis is based on the actual and forecasted data on traffic volume, VOC, economic
project cost, and benefits to transport users. The evaluation relied on the following main inputs and
assumptions:

            0   capital investment and maintenance costs, reflecting March 2003 prices;
                the benefits stream, also reflecting March 2003 prices, which comprises savings inVOC
                and travel time, and a reduction inaccident costs;
                a capital investment period o f 2003-2007, depending on the roadbeing evaluated, and an
                evaluation o fbenefits over 20 years; and

            0   fullbenefits beginningto accrue in2008 for TTH and 2006 for RRIP.

4.       This annex has three parts: the economic evaluation o f TTH; the economic evaluation o fthe five
rural roads under RRIP; and the overall economic evaluation o f the project, iiicluding a probabilistic risk
analysis.




                                                    - 39 -

                   ECONOMICEVALUATION TONGLING-TANGKOU
                                                  OF                            HIGHWAY

5.       For evaluation purposes, TTH has been divided into three sections:

                                                     Length of the         Length of the new
                                                   existingroad (km)        expressway (km)--
               Section 1: Tongling - Yangmeicun           77.00                  57.02
               Section2: Yangmeicun-Tanjiaqiao            63.00                  48.95
               Section3: Tanjiaqiao -Tongkou              15.00                   10.18
                              Total                      155.00                 116.15

Highway Expansion Plan and Justification for Investment
6.       Anhui is a landlockedprovince inthe eastern central regionofChina o f about 139,200 sqkm.
Mountains (29.6 percent o f total area o f the province) predominate inthe west and south, and plains
(44.3 percent) inthe north, east, and central regions; hilly sections (26.1 percent) are scattered between
the mountains and plains. The provincial capital, Hefei, i s inthe center of the province. The Yangtze
River flows from the southwest to the east. AnliuiProvince's east-central inland location and the Yangtze
River make Anhui a major hub for both east-west transport (linking inland provinces and the coastal
provinces) and north-south transport (liilking the Yellow River region and the Yangtze River region) in
the eastern central region o f China.

7.       Anhui is apoor province. Its GDP per capita in2001 was Y 5,199, or only 70.3 percent o fthe
national average (Y 7,392). Anhui's major economic activities are concentrated along the northern
Yangtze River. The southern part o f Anhui -- the project area -- i s hilly and mountainous. The economic
development inthis area lags behind the rest o f the province. The proposed TTH will link three major
cities on the south side o f the Yangtze River: Tongling, Chizhou, and Huangshan. The total land area
served will be about one seventh o f the province (13.8 percent), and the population served makes up
one-sixteenth o f the province's population (5.9 percent) but about one-tenth (9.5 percent) o f the poor
population. The proposed project involves the first high-grade highway linking these three cities. It will
improve the localpeoples' access to the outside world and will balance economic development inthe
province.

8.       The Government o f China is planning to construct five     north-south highways, seven east-west
highways, and three main highway corridors throughout the country before 2020, according to its
National Key Trunk Roads Construction Plan, which calls for linking all major cities and seaports. The
AnhuiProvincial Communications Department (APCD) is planning to complete a cross-shaped highway
system before 2010, centered at Hefei and extending east (completed), west (under construction), north
(partially completed), and south (partially completed). Except for the proposed TTH, all other sections
are either completed or under construction. The proposed TTH i s also part o f the Tianjiii-Shanwei
(Fujian province) Expressway (TSE), which is part o f the National Key Trunk Roads Construction Plan
inAnhui Province. The total lengthofthe TSE is about 2,136 kmandthe lengthofthe TSE inAnhui is
about 330 lun.Because o f the important role this expressway plays for the country and its role inthe
Anhuiroadnetwork, the proposed project has the highest priority inAnhui's regional highway
development plan. The economic evaluation i s based on project impacts on traffic in served areas o f
Anhui Province with the roadnetwork at the time ofits opening. Longerterm andmore distant impacts
(beyond Anhui Province) are not taken into consideration.




                                                     - 40 -

Level and Timing of Investment
9.      Motorized traffic on the existing roads inthe project corridor increased on an average o f 10.4
percent per year during 1995-2001; it reached 15,300-16,300 motorized vehicles per day throughout its
alignment in 2001. Because the current design capacity o f the existing roads is 8,000-15,000 vehicles per
day - a limit that was exceededbefore 2001 - the optiinuin timing for constructing a new highway i s as
quickly as possible.



                                                         Section 1          Section 2           Section3
                                                        Tongling  -      Yangmeicun-          Tanjiaqiao -
                                                       Yangmeicun    "_    Tanjiaqao            Tongkou
           RoadClass (oldroad/ newroad)               I1I Expressway     I1/Expressway      111 ' Expressway
           RoadCondition (old roadI new road)           Bad/ Good          BadI Good           Bad1Good
           Terrain (old roadI newroad)                 Hilly/ Hilly      Mount. /Mount.     Mount. /Mount.
           Capacity(AADTiday) (old road/ new road)    15,000 / 64,000     10,000 / 54,000    8,000 151,000
           MotorizedTraffic -2001 (AADT/day)              16,300              15,800              15,300
           Year for Capacity                           Before 2001         Before2001         Before2001
           ProposedOpening Year                        October 2007        October 2007      October. 2007


Corridor Traffic
10.      Estimates o f base-year traffic were made on the basis o f routine traffic counts and a
comprehensive origin and destination (OiD)survey that took place inNovember 2000 (and were updated
inApril 2002). Projections o fnormal, generated, anddiverted traffic were made for 26 zones following a
conventional growth model. The traffic on the proposed TTH is mostly from diversion from existing
roads. Because the growth o f total traffic inAnhui (7.5 percent) and on two main local roads (G103 and
G205) inthe project area (6.4 percent) were lower than the growth o f total GDP in 1995-2000 (10.4
percent), and because annual econoinic growth i s expected to be about 8-9 percent during 2001-2010, the
projectedtraffic growth rates inthe project corridor were estimated at an overall 4.2 percent per year for
2000-2008, 3.2 percent per year during2008-2017, and 2.3 percent per year during2017-2027. The
overall traffic growth rates are summarized inthe following table.

                                              Annual Traffic Growth Rate: TTH
                                                            Car        Bus & Truck       Average
                              Actual:      1995 -2001      20 8%          6 7%            8 3%
                              Projection: 2001 - 2008       5.0%          4 0%            4 2?4
                                         2008 -2017         4.3%          3 0%            3 2%

                                 **      2017 -2027         3 7%          2 0%            2 3%
                                          .x_




Alternatives
11.      The TTH feasibility study considered four altemative routes, comparing costs, benefits, service
to local cities, and relationship to future econoinic development. The other major criteria for selecting an
altemative alignment were: avoiding interference with existing facilities (such as highways and dams),
avoiding house demolition (and resettlement), and minimizing construction costs, taking into account
local terrain and geology. The preferredalignment was selected because it had the lowest overall cost and
a higher EIRR, and offered better coordination with the local econoinic development plan and local
transport networks.




                                                       -41 -

Traffic on the TTH
12.      The new highway is plannedto become operational in October 2007. Currently, there are five
main roads inthis corridor (S215, G104, G206, S103 and G205). The traffic on the two main roads (S103
and G205) constitutes the major corridor's traffic. The new highway traffic will be diverted mainly from
these two roads. Diversion ratios were calculated with the data from the feasibility study, by using
financial VOC for road users, the impact o f the level o f proposed tolls on the new highway, travel
distance, and experience from recent Bank-financed highways in China. The analysis indicates that the
majority o f traffic on S103 and G205, which i s equivalent to 33-36 percent o f the total corridor traffic,
depending on the road section, may be diverted to the new highway in2008. This proportioii will
increase to 37-40 percent by 2017. The traffic diversion is expected to increase linearly in the first 10
years and stabilize thereafter.

13.     Traffic generatedby TTH i s assumed to be 10 percent o f the base traffic. This assumption i s
consistent with other recent expressway projects inChina. No diversion o f traffic from the railway to
TTH has beentaken into account. This is because the railway is mainly for long-distance transport, with
different origiddestination (O/D) than the highway, which serves mostly local transport needs. (The
average rail passenger and freight transport distances for Anhui in 2000 were 628 lunand 928 km,
respectively, compared with 78 kmand 100lun,respectively, for roads). Inaddition, a much higher
highway tariff does not encourage traffic diversion from the railway. (The highway tariff i s about Y 0.28
per passenger-lun and Y 0.50 per ton-km; the railway tariff is about Y 0.10 plunand Yuan 0.33 tkm). The
corridor traffic forecast i s summarized by section inthe following table.


                                                           Section 1      Section2     Section3
                                                           Tongling -
                                                              - -      Yangmeicun     Tanjiaqiao -
                                                         Yangmeicun     - Tanjiaqiao   Tongkou
                      The existing road traffic  1995        10,236         9,711        9,50 I
                                                 I999        14,887        14,402       13,912
                                                 2000        15,53 I       15,072       14,477
                                                 2001        16,364        15.862       15.279
                                                 2008        13,850        13,432       13,537
                                                 2017        17,356        16,85 I      17,083
                                                 2027       22,059         2 1,457      2 1,207

                      TTE traffic                2008        7,93 I         7,688         6,790
                                                 2017        I1,753        I1,397         9 3 4 I
                                                 2027        14,903        14,457       12,216

                      Traffic diversion          2008        36.4%         36.4540      33.4%
                                                 2017        40.4%)        40.3Vo       36.6%
                                                 2027        40.3540       40.3%        36.5%


Economic Costs
14.     Investment costs have been converted to economic costs by eliminating price contingency, taxes,
and custom duty on importedmaterials and by applying a shadow price factor. The resulting overall
economic cost is about 106.4 percent o f the financial cost.




                                                     - 42 -

Economic Benefits
15.     Project benefits were estimated by usingthe VOC equation that was developed by the Highway
Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III).The economic analysis includes the benefits
derived froin VOC savings on the new highway for normal and generated traffic, time savings through
relieved congestion on the existing road, and lower accident costs. The benefits resulting froin lower
levels o f congestion were quantified. The value o f passenger time savings was estimated at Y 2.0 per
passenger-hour, on the basis o fupdated values for highways in China (Rust PPK, Australia Feasibility
Study Methodology Report, March 1996). The table below presents the VOC o f the project.

                                              Economic Vehicle Operating Cost

                                             New Highway                         Existing Roads
                                    Section 1 Section 2   Section 3     Section 1  Section 2--  Section 3
                  Car                0.635      0.655       0.655        0.750       0.767       0.767
                 Medium bus          1.862      2.086       2.086        2.480       2.683       2.683
                  Large bus          2.6 I O    3.028       3.028        3.615       4.046       4.046
                  Small truck        0.727      0.836       0.836        0.838       0.953       0.953
                  Medium truck       1.530      1.819       1.819        1.978       2.293       2.293
                  Large truck        2.078      2.460       2.460        2.723       3.116       3.116
                  Tractorkrailer     4.099      4.956       4.956        5.333       6.279       6.279



                                    Sample of Economic Vehicle Operating Cost Calculation
                                        (Yuan per 1,000 vehicle-km, March 2003 prices)
                                                        Medium     Large Small !Medium Large       Trailer/
                                                Car        bus     bus   truck   truck     truck  Container
                  New Highway
                   Fuel                         286        743     693    365      618       689     1,417
                   Tires                           3        27     506     54      293       620     1,107
                   Maintenance                  249        852     912    33 I     758       015     1,882
                   Crew                          22         28       52    33       45        48        50
                   Depreciation                  19         75      I88    53       105      188       500
                            Subtotal            - 1.725_
                                                579                2.351  836    1.8192.460          4.956
                   Time value of passengers       76        361     677
                             Total              - 2.086
                                                655                3,028  -
                                                                          836    1,8192.460          4.956
                  Existing Road
                   Fuel                         308       1,052    1,126  409      935     1,130     2,323
                   Tires                            3       27      572    59      323       680     1,220
                   Maintenance                  277         947    1.013  368      842     1,017     2,09 1
                   Crew                           43        54       I04   59       76        80        89
                   Depreciation                   21        83      208    58       117      209       556
                            Subtotal            - 2,163
                                                652                3.023  -
                                                                          953                        6,279
                   Time value of passengers      1 I 5      520    1.023
                              Total             - 2.683
                                                161                4,046  -
                                                                          953     2J933,116          6,279


Economic Evaluation
 16.       Total costs and benefits streams, the EIRR and NPV, for each section o f the expressway were
calculated by usingthe VOC equation. The overall ERR for the TTH i s estimated to be 20.7 percent,
with the following results for each road section:




                                                      - 43 -

                                          Economic Evaluation of TTE
                                                               EIRR (in %)                          NPV (12%, Yuan........million)    ___
                                                                                  ~          ".ll__                    ""
                           Tongling - Yangineicun                        24.3                                         2,027.3
                           Yangmeicun - Tanjiaqiao                       20.5                                          1,400.0
                           Tanjiaqiao - Tongkou                              9.0                                        (136.4)
                                   Whole route                           20.1                                         3,320.6

17.      The distribution o f the estimated benefits shows that the main beneficiaries are the road users on
this highway corridor, and that trucks willreceive 44.4 percent o fproject benefits, cars 18.5 percent, and
buspassengers 31.2percent. Benefits to bus passengers are inore likely to accrue to lower-income
people. The breakdown o f benefits is as follows:



                                                             Roaduser                  Road agency                   Society
                        Total benefits:                      6,726.9                     (3,406.3)                   3,320.6

                        Byvehicles:                Cars       Buses                       Tmcks                     Trailers      Total
                                                1,245.2      2,095.7                      2,984.9                    400.9       6,726.9
                                                  18.5%       31.2%                        44.4%                       6.0%       100.0%


Sensitivity and Switching Values Analysis
18.      The evaluation o f the project (base case) shows that the selected aligninelit i s econoinically
viable. The sensitivity tests with respect to a two-year delay inproject completion, zero value o f time, no
generated traffic, and lower traffic projections on the new highway confinn this position.

                                   Sensitivitv Tests on Economic Evaluationof TTH

                     ""                  " "
                                         ... .............      .......................
                                                                                   EIRR(.ah) .?!V1l?.o!i?uY"!!an
                                                                                                   ................                mi!!i, ?!!I....
                                                                                                                                          ......
                    Delay in completion by two years                "                   18.1                              2,496.8               "



                    Zero value o ftime                                                 19.7                               2,854.0
                    Zero generated traffic                                             20.1                               3,039.5
                    Lower traffic growth rate projection (-20%)                         18.9                              2,433. 1
                                  Switchingvalues                                                                 % increase
                    Cost increase to reduceEIRR to 12%                                                             210%
                    Benefit reductionto reduce EIRR to 12%                                                           48Yo


19.      Inaddition, the sensitivity tests, with variations inproject costs andbenefits, indicatethat the
conditions causing the project's viability to fall below the acceptable -- that is, a negative NPV or an
EIRRlower than 12percent       -- are  unlikely to occur. Benefits would have to fall to less than 48 percent o f
those inthe base case with no change incosts, or the costs would have to increase to more than 2.1 tiines
those o fthe base costs, or costs would have to increase by 125 percent and benefits fall to 60 percent at
the same time. The sensitivity o f the project's success to cost and benefit variations i s shown inthe
following table.




                                                             - 44 -

             Se
                 Variation                           Variation in benefits
                  incosts    -70%     -60%    -50%     -40%      -30%      -20%     -10%         0%
                   -40%      12.5%    15.6%   18.3%    20.7%    22.9'h     24.9Yo   26.7%      28.5%
                   -30%    10.9%/13.9%        16.4%    18.7%    20.7%      22.6%    24.3%      25.9%
                                                       17.0%     18.9%     20.7%    22.3%      23.9%
                                                       15.6%     17.5%     19.1%    20.7%      22.2%
                    0%                                 14.4%     16.2%     17.8%)   19.3%      20.7%
                                                       13.4%     15.1%     16.6%    18.1%      19.4%




                                ECONOMICEVALUATION THE RRIP    OF

Selection of RRIP and Traffic
20.      APCD identified 13 sections o f roads (totaling 1,188 la)that need to be rehabilitated urgently.
Of these, five (totaling 243 lun)were selected for Bank financing under the RRIP. All five ruralroads are
inpoor areas intheprovince. The proposedrehabilitationplan would improve not only localroad
conditions but also accessibility to the TTH. The main objective o f the RRIP i s to upgrade the existing
Class I11or Class IV roads to Class I1or Class I11roads with adequate pavement. The inain characteristics
o f the RRIP are listed inthe following table.


                                            Length       Traffic                      Road class               Grade
                                          - A k m )                                               ........ (Old/new)
             I, Shitai-QiaotoudianRoad          74     (MTE,E!"!.l..".~~Q!V!C-.".~Old/new)Max.
                                                          1,842          61     I.23   III111-111         8.0% / 6.5%
             2.  Jingxian -Maolin Road          35        1,658          48     I.66   IV I 11-111        7.7% 16.5%
             3.  Xianyuan - Sanxi Road          44        1,830          42     1.22   111/ 11-111        8.0% / 6.0%
             4.  Hangmen - Jinde Road           38        1,535          41     1.54   IV/II-III          10.0%/8.0%
             5.  Xinqiao - Dabeifu Road         52        1,662          48     1.66    IV / I11          9.0% 17.5%
                           Total              243


21.      The current motorized traffic levels o f three roads are inthe range o f approximately 1,500-1,800
inediuin truck equivalent (MTE). Because all five roads are inthe same region, the local economic
development and traffic patterns are similar. Based on actual traffic levels and local econoinic growth
rates, traffic growth rates were estimated conservatively to be 4.0 percent for 2000-2005 and then
reduced by 1.0 percent for each five-year period froin 2005 to 2025. Inthese less densely populated
rural areas, it is assumed that there i s no generated traffic.

Economic Costs and Benefits
22.       Financial costs were converted to economic costs usingthe same method and factors as for the
TTH, with the following results:




                                                     - 45 -

                                      FinancialandEconomicCostsof RRIP (Yuanmillion)
                                                                  Financial."".....
                                                                                 E:?"?-      ........
                                                                                                   consw,r!    ,,period
                      1.  Shitai - Qiaotoudian Road                 148.00         157.39        Oct. 2003 - June 2006
                     2.   Jingxian -Maolin Road                      70.00           74.44       Oct. 2003 -June 2006
                     3.   Xianyuan - Sanxi Road                      88.00           93.58       Oct. 2003 -June 2006
                     4.   Hongmen- Jinde Road                        90.00           95.7 1      Oct. 2003 - June 2006
                     5.   Xinqiao - Dabeifu Road                    104.00          1 10.60      Oct. 2003 - Jmie 2006
                                      Total                         500.00         531.I2


23.      The VOC equation was used to quantify the economic costs and benefits on each iura1road
under the RRIP. The main evaluated benefits are reduced VOCs because o f better road surfaces;
upgrading roadclasses also results inhigher traffic speed and a higher road roughness index.

EconomicEvaluationand Sensitivity Analysis
24.      The best estimates of EIRRs for the five rural roads range froin 17.2 percent to 29.4 percent. The
overall EIRR for the RRIP i s 21.4 percent and the NPV (12 percent) i s Y 326.5 million.

                                                  EIRRandNPVfor RRIP
                        I                                            -
                                 _I_I-                      -xx_II                          NPV (12%, Yuan mil
                        1.     Shitai- Qiaotoudian Road                        19 2                      74 0
                        2.     Jingxian - Maolm Road                          20 6                       36 5
                        3.     Xianyuan - Saiixi Road                         22 0                       56 9
                        4.     Hongmen -Jiiide Road                           29 4                      120 8
                        5      Xinqiao - Dabeifu Road                          I 7 2                     38 3
                        *          -
                            s w      * ^ - Total-                             21.4
                                                     ~    ~                                             326.5

25.      The following risks are associated with the evaluation o f the rural roads:

                 slower than projectedgrowth o f traffic;

                 higher thanprojectedcost o f civil works; and

            a    less than expected VOC savings.

26.      All these risks were analyzedthrough sensitivity tests, and the evaluation results were found to
be robust for all o f them. For the project component to be unacceptable (Le., with an EIRR lower than 12
percent or a nil NPV), benefits would have to fall to less than 62 percent o f those inthe base case with no
change incosts, or the costs would have to increase to more than 1.62 times those o f the base costs, or
the costs would have to increase by 125 percent and the benefits fall to 77.5 percent at the same time.

27.      Additional benefits, not included inthe EIRRcalculation but expected froin the projects are: an
increase inthe incomes o f local farmers who live along the roads because o f better access to town
markets andjobs, and an improvement in accessibility to scliools and hospitals because o f improved and
all-weather roads. The quantifiable benefits are estimated to be about 11,360 extra children attending
school (15 percent o f 75,771 children inthe directly influenced areas) and 59,440 extra people receiving
health services (15 percent of 396,270). Benefits for each road are as follows.




                                                                  - 46 -

                                                      Extra Benefits for RRIP
                                                                Extra children        Extra people attending
                                                               attending school           health services
                         1 .  Shitai - Qiaotoudian Road             I.490                       7 850
                         2.   Jingxian - Maolin Road                3,090                      14,700
                         3.   Xianyuan - Sanxi Road                 2,100                      I1,830
                         4.   Hongmen- ShengdeRoad                  2,940                      15,900
                         5.   Xinqiao - Dabeih Road                 1,740                       9.160
                                          Total                    11,360                      59,440



                            OVERALLECONOMIC            EVALUATIONTHEPROJECT
                                                                       OF

Overall EIRR
28.     The overall ERR o f the project is 20.8 percent and the NPV (12 percent) i s Y 3,647.1 million.
The overall EIRR o f the project calculated usingVOC equation is summarized as follows:


                                          Summary of Economic Evaluation Results
                                                         -,,*-
                                                                                    NPV (YuanI111illoi1, 12%)"
                       Tongling-TongkouHigliwav (?THY
                         Section 1. Tongling - Yangnieicun               24 3                2,027 3
                         Section2: Yangmeicun - Tanjiaqiao               20 5                1,400 0
                         Section3: Tanjiaqiao -Tongkou                    9 0                 (136 4)
                                         Subtotal                        207
                       Rural RoadImprovementProgram(RRIP)                21 4                  326 5
                                          Total                          20.8                3,647.1
                                                               "  /




Project Risks
29.       The TTH and RRIP show acceptable economic returns. APCD has extensive experience inthe
constructioii and operation o f expressways and rural roadprojects, which minimizes the technical risks o f
implementing the project. The main tangible risk is prolonged delays affecting the construction schedule.
This will be testedthrough the probabilistic riskanalysis to estimate the degree o f uncertaintyfor the
project.

Probabilistic Risk Analysis for Economic Evaluation of TTH
30.       To detennine the degree o f uncertainty for the project, a probabilistic risk analysis usingMonte
Carlo techniques was carried out. Ina Monte Carlo analysis, each uncertainty factor i s allowed to vary at
random between set limits and all uncertainty factors are allowed to change simultaneously. Monte Carlo
simulation provides probability distributions o f the potential outcomes of decisions. By analyzing these
distributions, i t is possible to assess the risk associated with making various decisions (or probabilistic
riskanalysis). The outcome o fthe analysis is ajudgment          011 the possible range o f the decision variable,
and on the likelihood o f each value within this range.

31.       Interms o fthe capital cost, because the five ruralroads constitute only about 11.8 percent o f
total capital investment, and their EIRR is higher than the returnon the TTH, the probabilistic risk
analysis for the project focuses on the construction o f the TTH. The highest uncertainty factors
associated with the economic evaluation o f the TTH were identifiedas: (a) traffic growth rate, (b) traffic
diversion ratio to the new highway, (c) the value o f VOC, (d) changes in the amount o f capital



                                                         - 4 7 -

investment, and (e) a delay inopening the new highway by one year. The results of the probabilistic risk
analysis indicate that the EIRRfor the most likely scenario i s 19.6 percent. Inthe low scenario case, it is
10.5 percent, and the high scenario case is 28.8 percent. The standard error of the mean i s 0.5 percent.
The detailed results of the Monte Carlo test and probabilistic risk analyses are shown inAppendix A and
suinmarized as follows:




                                            Rangeof EIRR      Mostlikely EIRR   StandardError of the Mean
          Section I:Toagling - Yangmeicun    13.I%32.8%
                                                  -                23.0%                  0.6%
          Section 2: Yangmeicun -Tanjiaqiao  10.1% 28.3%           19.4%                  0.6%
          Section 3: Tanjiaqiao -Tongkou     I.4%                   9.1%                  0.4%
                      TotalTTE              10.5% ---16.8%
                                                     28.8%         19.6%                  0.5%




                                                     - 48 -

                                                                                                    APPENDIX A
                                 TONGLING-TANGKOUHIGHWAY
                         EIRRSimulationand ProbabilisticRiskAnalysis


Suminaiy:
        Display Rangc is from -10.0% to 70.0%
        Entire Rangc is from -8.2% to 92.5%
       Aftcr 1,000 Trials, the Std. Error o f thc Mcan is 0.5%

Statistics:                                        Valuc         Perccntilcs:
                                                                                       -
       Trials                                       I000
       Mean                                       2 I.4%                                    Pcrccntilc          Valuc
        Mcdian                                    19.6%                                            0Yo          43.2%
       Mode                                           _ _ _                                       10%            1.3%
       Standard Dcviation                         16.5%          Low Scciiario                   20%             6.1%
       Variancc                                    2.7%                                          30%            10.5%
       Skcwncss                                     0.61         Most Likciy                     40%            15.3%
       Kurtosis                                     3.16         I                               50%            19.6%
       Cocff. of Variability                        0.77         High Sccnario                   60%            24.1%
       Range Minimum                               -8.2%         I                               70%            28.8%
       Range Maximum                              92.5%                                          80%            34.4%
        Rangc Width                               100.7%                                         90YO           43.8%
       Mcan Std. Error                            0.52%                                          100%           92.5%

                           Forecast: EIRR- T T E (open in 2009) Total Project
        1,000Trials                                Frequency Chart                                    6 Outliers




                     -10.0%            10.0%                30 0%             50 0%              70 0%




                                                  Assumptions

Traffic Growth Rate                                              Traffic Diversion
Normal distribution with paramctcrs:                             " m a l distributioii with paramctcrs:
Mean                         100.0%                              Mcan                         I00.0"/0
Standard Dcv.                 10.0%                              Standard Dcv.                  10.0%
Sclcctcdrangc is from -Infinity to +Infinity                     Sclcctcd rangc is fi-om -Infinity to +Infinity
Mcan valuc in simulation was 100.8%                              Mcan valuc in siiiiiilation was 99.8%

VOC Value                                                        Capital Cost
Triangular distribution with paramctcrs:                         Triangular distribution with paramctcrs:
Minimum                       90.0%                              Minimum                      100.0%
Likclicst                    100.0%                              Likclicst                    I 10.0?/a
Maximuin                     110.0%                              Maxiintiin                   I15.0%
Selccted rangc i s from 90.0% to 110.0%                          Sclcctcd rangc is from 100.0% to I15.0%
Mcan valuc in simulation was 99.8%                               Mean vniiic in simulation was 108.4%




                                                            -49-

Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:




                 ___..._....l_l.____""
                                     _I___._..."................................................. "...__I_"...............................
                                                                                                                              EIRR               ( O h )                   NPV (12%, Yuan million)
                                                                                                                    "                 .................. ..................... ...... .. ..................................... ...................................
                                                                                                                                                                          .....
                   Delay in completion by two years                                                                                     18.1                                                     2,496.8                                                "



                  Zero value o ftime                                                                                                    19.7                                                     2,854.0
                  Zero generated traffic                                                                                               20.I                                                      3,03 9.5
                   Lower traffic growth rate projection (-20%)                                                                          18.9                                                     2,433.1
                                       Switching values                                                                                                                     % increase
                   Cost increase to reduce EIRRto 12%                                                                                                                             210%
                   Benefit reduction to reduce EIRRto 12%                                                                                                                            48%




                                                                                                       - 50 -

                                      Annex 5: Financial Summary
                               CHINA Second Anhui Highway Project


1.      The financial evaluation o f the project covers the revenue-earning entity (TTH), the lion
revenue-earning entity (RRIP), and the financial capacity o f APCD to sustain highway activities.


                                      FINANCIAL                  EVALUATION TTH
                                                                             OF

2.      TTH is the only income-generating component, and its cost constitutes about 82 percent o fthe
total project cost. TTH funding will come from the World Bank loan (47 percent) and grant capital (53
percent); an overall average cost o f capital o f 5 percent i s appliedto both sources o f funds. APCD plans
to open TTH to traffic inOctober 2007. After the TTH is completed, the operation entity will be
responsible for the day-to-day management, operation, and maintenance o f TTH. The main financial
revenue o f the TTH will be toll income from roadusers.

Financial Objective
3.       APCD has indicatedthat the purpose o f toll collection on TTH is to repay the Bank loan and
cover operation and maintenance expenditures insteado f maximizing the financial rate o f return on the
investment. The toll rate will be set accordingly. For 2008, the weighted average toll rate i s estimated at
Y 0.91 per vehicle-km, which is about equivalent to the average toll rate charged under the
Bank-financed expressways intwo coastal provinces (Zhejiang and Guangdong) in2000. The toll
charges are assumed to increase once every five years (15 percent over 5 years, or an average o f 2.8
percent per year).

Financial Forecasts
4.        Toll. The toll will be charged on the basis o f vehicle size (small passenger cars, large buses,
small trucks, mediumtrucks, large trucks and trailers) and distance traveled. Toll-exempted vehicles
(ambulances and police and military vehicles) are expected to make up 10 percent o f total traffic. The
proposed toll charges are as follows:


                            Sma!!ve!c!F: ...................Mediumvehicle
                                n.m                                                                          !!e!lk!e.  .....
                                                                0.90      Large1.20
                                                                              ve'ic'e ................HeavyI.60

5.        Operations. The operating costs o f TTH can be broken down into working costs (wages and
benefits, maintenance, operating materials and supplies, administration, other) and depreciation. All other
expenses, including interest payments on the loan, are also taken into account inthe calculation o f the
profitability o f TTH.

6.        Profitability. It is estimated that TTH's revenue will generate low profits inthe early years o f
operation (2009-20 12)primarily because o f lower traffic and higher financial charges than inthe later
years. (See the income statement, page 1o f 3, Appendix A.)

 7.       Cash flow. The slower toll increase assumptionmay cause lower profits, but it will not affect
the cash flow o f the TTH. This is because o f the large depreciation reserves. For example, the total
 aimual depreciation reserve in2008 (Y 100.07 million) will be about 1.85 times total annual working



                                                                    -51 -

costs (Y 54.21 million), which will generate sufficient internal cash flow and provide sufficient funds for
TTHoperations. These include the funds needed to repay the IBRDloan and for inajor maintenance
work. The revenue forecast shows that TTH will not need any external cash iiijection over the life o f the
project (See Sources and Applications o f Funds, page 2 o f 3, Appendix A).

8.       Leverage and Liquidity. The low profitability inthe early years o f operation and the high
proportion o f loans (weighted to about 47 percent o f the total project cost) will affect the financial
leverage o f TTH, which will cause the debtlequity ratio and debticapital ratio (the financial leverage o f
the expressway company) not to be sound until2013. But this will not affect the liquidity o f TTH, mainly
because o f the strong cash flow status. The current ratio will be in the sound range o f 7.2 or inore (to
avoid short-term solvency problems, the current ratio should be at least 1.0). (Balance sheet, page 3 o f 3,
Appendix A). To ensure the financial viability o f the project, APCD has reiterated its full coimnitment to
the TTH and released an official document to the Bank. The inajor assumptions for the financial
evaluation are shown inAppendix B.

9.       Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR). The FIRR for the TTH i s estimated at about 1
percent. Because the TTH is an integral part o f the Hefei-Tangkou corridor, the financial retum o f the
TTH section has to be seeninthe wider context o f that corridor. Most traffic onthe TTH will come from
long-distance travellers that will also travel other sections o f the corridor. The two sections o f toll
highway to the north o f the TTH (the Lujiang-Tongling, currently under construction, and Hefei and
Lujiang Highways, the latter financed under a previous Bank-supported project) have higher financial
rates of return (10.1 per cent and 12.0 percent respectively) because they have higher traffic levels and
lower construction costs. The TTH has traffic levels about halfthose on the inore northern section
because it is farther from the urban area o f Hefei, the provincial capital and construction costs about 50
per cent higher (U$4.3 millionper kminstead o f US2.9 millionper km) because it passes through
inountainous terrain rather than the level terrain o f the other two sections.

 10.      Financial Probabilistic RiskAnalysis. To detenniiie the degree o f financial uncertainty for the
project, a probabilistic risk analysis usingMonte Carlo techniques was carried out. The six most
uncertain factors that may affect the financial evaluationwere identified: (a) traffic growth rate, (b) the
base toll rate, (c) increase intoll rates, (d) total working costs, (e) capital investment, and (f) a one-year
delay in opening TTH. The risk analysis reveals that the most likely FIRR i s 1.2 percent, while the worst
and the best FIRRsare 0.3 percent and 2.6 percent, respectively. Details are inAppendix C and
summarized inthe following table.




          ....,............
            FIRR.......................%)........,...,.......
                       "                                     ...............................
                                                                 " "         "       "                        ........".           FIRR I NPV
                                                                                          ~
                           (in                                                                1.3................
                                                                                               ...                       1.1      - 0.3           I.2      0.1
            NPV (5.0%, Yuan million)                                                        - 1,324                     -1,422   - 1,135 - 694
                                                                                                                                       ---2.6   - 1,250    29.3


 Impact on Level of the Toll Charge
 11.      Most traffic is long distance and thus little sensitive to changes in tolls. Raising tolls, which are
 already high, would be very detrimental to local short-distance users and along the project corridor there
 would be vastly different toll rate levels, which would not be acceptable. The evaluation o f the EIRR and
 FIRRat different toll levels is suinmarized inthe following table.




                                                                                                                        - 52 -

                                            0.91                       20.7               I.3
                                            1.00                        19.9             2.6
                                            2.00                        18.7             10.1
                                            3.00                        16.2             13.3
                                            4.00                        13.3             15.4
                                            5.00                         9.7             15.7



                                        FINANCIAL     EVALUATIONOF W P

12.       All five ruralroads under RRIP are toll free. The financial evaluationof these non
revenue-earning roads will focus on the APCD's capacity to minimize financial risks, i.e., the lack o f
counterpart funds for construction and future operating expenses for these roads.

13.       APCD budget forecasts show that the investment and maintenance expenditures for the
free-access roads included inthe project constitute only a small fraction o f APCD's funds flow.
Therefore, the fiscal impact would be minimal. According to APCD's plan, the capital investment in
RRIP is less than 2.0 percent o f annual revenue. The requiredinaintenance expenditure for RRIP i s about
0.3 percent o f total maintenance expenditures o f APCD. These low ratios indicate that the project
presents a modest financial risk with regard to the availability o f a counterpart fund for construction and
maintenance o f RRIP roads. Details are shown inAppendix D.


                                                          2004       2005        2006        2007          2008
                InvcstmcntsandRevenue:                                                                  ~




                 RRIPInvcstinents(a)                      178.00    235.00       87.00           _ _           __
                 Total APCD Revenue(b)                 12,450.30  13,382.85   14,294.34  14,793.42   15.311.88
                 Ratios(a)/(b)                             1.4%       1.8')/"     0.6%           _ _           _ _
                Maintenance Exuenditures:
                 RRIP(c)                                      _ _      I.60        5.1 I      5.29          5.48
                 Total APCD MaintcnanccExpcnditurc (d)  1,345.61   I.42I.94    1,493.59    1,569.02      1,648.42
                 Ratios (c)/(d)                               --      0.1%        0.3YO       0.3%          0.3%


                                         FINANCIAL    ASSESSMENT APCD
                                                                   OF

 14.      APCD has provided its financing plan and forecasts on revenue and expenditures for the Tenth
Five Year Plan (2001-2005) and the Eleventh Five Year Plan (2006-2010). According to the Anhui
highway development plan, APCD should acquire sufficient funds to finance the increased length o f the
provincial roadnetwork and allocate resources for the maintenance o f the existing road network. A
inoderate self-financing ratio (27.3 percent for the Tenth Five-Year Plan) will ensure the implementation
o f the proposed development plan. This ratio will remain at the same level (26.5 percent) for the Eleventh
Five-Year Plan. The details on highway revenues and expenditures for 2001-2010 are shown inAppendix
D.

 15.      T o avoid a capital squeeze effect (Le., given limited annual capital resources, high priority is
 given to new construction while maintenance costs for existing roads are reduced), APCD has also given
 special attention to roadmaintenance. With regards to the sustainability o f road maintenance, the
 increase inmaintenance expenditures during the Tenth Five-Year Plan (3.9 percent a year) exceeds the



                                                        - 53 -

expansion rate o f the roadnetwork (1.7 percent a year), which causes an increase inthe average
maintenance expenditure for each kilometer. Duringthe Eleventh Five-Year Plan, maintenance
expenditures will increase by 3.6 percent annually, although the road network will expand by only 1.4
percent annually.

                                                                    APCD: Average Increase inthe RoadNetwork and

                                                                                                                                                                       10thFYP             11th FYP
             ........................................................................
                  Average annual increase in..................................................................................
                                             -                                        "
                                                                                      ..................................                                                                        ? E O )
                                                                                                                         the road network  .................. .......(2001 2005). ...... (?006 : .........
                                                                                                                                                                          1.7                 1.4
                  Average annual increase inmaintenance expenditures                                                                                                     3.9                  3.6




                                                                                                                                    - 54 -

                                                                                                           APPENDIX A
                                                                                                                 Page 1 of3
                                           Second Anhui Highway Project
                                                   IncomeStatement- TTH
                                         (Yuan million,year ending December 31)

                                   2008     2009      2010     2011    2012   2013     2014    2015    2010    2017    2018

Traffic (million veh-km) /I       395.02    409 35   424 29   439 81  456 01  472 83  490 33  508 54  527 46  547 16  567 67

Revenue
 Tolls                            359.86    372.63   385.93   399.69  414.08  494.39  512.29  530.86  550.10  570.15  680.48
 Othcrs
 Total                            -
                                  359.86    372.63
                                             - 385.91    - 399.69~414.08 ~    494.39  512.29
                                                                                        _ 530.86_550.10 ~     570.15  680.48
                                                                                                                        ~     ~ -

Ooerating Taxes
 Busiiicss tax                      17.99      18.63   19.30     19.98  20.70   24.72   25.61   26.54   27.5 I  28.51   34.0
 City tax                             1.26      I.30      1.35    I.40   I.45    I.I3     I.79   I.86     I,93   2.00    2.3
 Education lcvy                      0.54       0.56     0.58     0.60   0.62    0.74    0.77    0.80    0.83    0.86    I .o
              Total                 19.79 20.40        21.23     21.98  22.77   27.19   28.17   2').20  30.27   31.37   -
                                                                                                                        37.4
Net Revenue                        340.07 352.14 364.68 377.71 301.31 467.20 484.12 501.(16 519.83 538.78 643.0
Ooeratine Costs
 Wagcs and bcncfits                  6.00       6.30     6.62     6.95   7.30    7.67    8.05    8.45    8.87    9.31    9.7
 Maintcnancc                         5.81       6.09     6.40     6.72  5 I.89   7.4 1   7.78    8.17    X.58  117.13    9.4
 Opcrating inatcrials and supplies  33.22      34.88   36.62     38.46  40.38   42.40   44.52   46.74   49.08   51.53   54.1
 Administration 81 management        3.60       3.78     3.97     4.17   4.38    4.60    4.83    5.07    5.32    5.59    5.8
 Othcis /2                           5.58       5.85     6.15     6.45   6.78    7.12    7.47    7.84    X.24    8.65    9.0
 Total working costs                54.21      56.90   59.76     62.75 110.73 (,0.20 72.65      75.27   8o.oL) 192.21   -
                                                                                                                        88.3
           Dcprcciation            100.07    100.07    100.07  100.07  100.42  100.47  100.52  100.58  100.63  101.41  101.4
 Total operatingcosts              154.28 156.97 159.83 162.82 211.15 16').67 173.17 176.85 Ixo.72 293.62 189.7

Ooerating Profit                   -195.17-214.89- 297.53
                                   185.79             204.85           180.16      - 324.81339.11
                                                                                       310.95    ~245.16- ~ ~          453,2
 Financial chargcs: IBRD                 -     92.20   87.84     83.27  78.46   73.41   68.10   62.53   50 07   50.52   44.0
                     Local Bank
 Othcr incoinc (cxpcnscs)                          -  (13.38)  (13.38) (13.38) (13.38) (13.38) (13.38) (13.38) (13.38) (13.3E


Profit Before Taxes                ~ 103.63
                                   185.79    102.97             118.24  88.32  210.74  229.47  248.90  269.06   181.26~395.8
 Incoinctax                         61.31      33.98   34.20     39.02  29.15   69.54   75.73   82.14   8X.7')  59.82   130.6


Net Profit After Taxes             ~
                                   12448       6899    6943
                                                          ~ 7922        59 ~ 14120
                                                                            17          15374~I6676     18027  ~ 2652
                                                                                                                12144        _   _

Working ratio                       16         16      16        17     2X      15      15      15      15      36      14
Operating ratio                     45         45      44        43     54      36      36      35      35      54      30
Rate of return on average net
fixed assets                        4.3       2.4      2.5      2.9     2.3     5.6     6.4     1.2     8.1     5.1    13.1
/l:willbcopcncdtotrafficonOctobcr2007.
    TTH
12: Othcrs: Includinghighway rcsearch, studics and misccllancous.




                                                               - 55 -

                                                                                                                 APPENDIXA
                                                                                                                          Page 2 of 3


                                           Second Anhui Highway Project
                                          Sources andApplicationsof Funds- TTH
                                          (Yuan million, year endingDecember 31)

                   2004   2005     2006   2007   2008   2009    2010   2011    2012    2013   2014    2015    2016     2017     2018


Sources:
Nct profits                                     - 124.48 68.99   69.43  79.22    59 17  141.20 153.74  166.76  1X0.27   121.44  265.22
Deprcciation                                    - 100.07 100.07  100.07 100.07  100.42  100.47 100.52  IO058   100.63  101.41    101.48
State contribution  156.62 280.81 280.81   156.61
Local contribution  181.04 324.59 324.59   181.03
Borrowing: IBRD 333.88     598.62 598.62   333.88
             Local
Others
       Total       _
                   671.54  1204.02 1204.02
                                      _    671.52 224.55~169.06  169.50 17'1.29
                                                                        ~       lS9.59  241.67 254.26  267 34  2X0.90  222.85    366.70


Aaalications:
Capital
expcnditurc         671.54 1204.021204.02  671.52  11.62  11.85   12.08  12.33   12.57   12.82  13.08   13.34   13.61    13.88    14.16
Other cxpenditurc
Loan rcpaymcnt:
IBRD                                                   - 86.02    90.38 9495     99.76  104.Xl l10.12  115.09  121.55   127.70   134.17
Local
Changc w/ capital                                      - (0.91)  (0.90) (089)    (0.89) (6.40)  (0.87)  (1.86)  (185)    (1.85)   (8.18)


       Total        671.54 1204.021204.02  671.52        96.96 101.56           111.44         122.33  127.17  133.31    139.73  140.15


NetFundsFlow                                    - 212.93  72.10   67.94  72.90   48.15  13044  131.93  14017   147.59    83.12   226.55

  Opcn balancc                                         - 212.93  285.03 352.97  425.87  474.02 00446   736.39  876.56 1,024.15 1,107.27
  Closing balancc                               - 212.93 285.03  352.97 425.87  474.02  604.46 736.39  876.56 1,024 15 1,107.27 1,333.82

D/SCover              _ _    __      --     --     --    1.47    1.48   1.51    1.36    1.83   1.87    1.92    1.97     1.58     2.41




                                                               - 56 -

                                                                                                    APPENDIXA
                                                                                                           Page 3 o f 3
                                       SecondAnhui HighwayProject
                                                  Balance Sheet- TTH
                                        (Yuanmillion, year ending December31)

                              2008       2009   2010    2011    2012    2013   2014    2015    2016    2017    2018

Assets:
Fixcd Asscts
 At cost                      3002.04 3002.10 3002.16 3002.22 3012.60 3014.08 3015.64 3017.27 3018.99 3042.42 3044.31

 LCSSDcprcciation               100.07   200.14  300.21 400.28   500.70 601.17 701.69  802.27  902.90 1004.31 1105.79


          Nct fixed asscts    -------~-~-
                              2901.97 2801.96 2701.95 2601.94 2511.90 2412.91 2313.95 2215.00 2116.09 2038.11 1938.52

Currcnt Asscts
 Invcntoly                          1.80    1.86   1.93   2.00     2.07   2.47   2.56    2.65    2.75    2.85     3.40
 Rcccivablc                         0.90   0.93    0.96    1.00    1.04   1.24   1.28     1.33    1.38    1.43    1.70
 Cash                          212.93    285.03  352.97 425.87   474.02 604.46 736.39   876.56 1024.15 1107.27 1333.82


           Subtotal            - -287.82- 355.86
                               215.63                ~ 428.87~ 477.13_ 608.17
                                                                           _ 740.23
                                                                                  ~ 880.54 1028.28 1111.55 1338.92
                                                                                           _ _ ~ - -

Othci Assets

         Total Assets         -
                              31176Q 3089-72 305781 3
                                              ~              ~
                                                             m 298903 3021 OX
                                                                           ~  3054 I 8 309514 314417 114966 327144
                                                                                         -             _               _ _

Liabilities & Eauitv
Statc funds- Equity           1222.60 1279.80 1337.21 1404.16 1461.14 1591.00 1733.22 1888.27 2056.65 2187.64 2440.59

L/TIoans     IBRD             1865.00 1778.98 1688.60 1593.65 1493.89 1359.08 1278.96 1163.27 1041.72  914.02   779.85
             Local

           Subtotal           --~----~---
                              1865.00 1778.98 1688.60 1593.65 1493.89 1389.08 1278.96 1163.27 1041.72  914.02   779.85

Current Liabilities               30.00   31.00   32.00  33.00    34.00  41.00  42.00    44.00   46.00  48.00    57.00

Othci Liabilitics

Total Liabilities & Equity    - - - - - ~ ~ ~_ _ _ _ ~ -
                              - - ~3089.78 _ _ _ _ _ - _3021.08~3054.18 3095.54 3144.37 3149.66 3277.44
                              3117.60     - - 3057.81 3030.81 2989.03           -

Debt: capital ratio             60.4     58.2    55.8   53.2     50.6   46.6   42.5     38.1    33.6    29.5    24.2
Debt/ equity ratio             61/39     59141  56/44   54/46   51/49   47153  43/57   39161   35/65   31169   26/74
Current ratio                    7.2      9.3    11.1    13.0    14.0   14.8   17.6     20.0    22.4    23.2    23.5


Fixcdasscts: 80% of capital investment and20% of maintcnance.
Equity=Total assct - Total Liabilities.




                                                            - 57 -

                                                                                                                   APPENDIX B

                                         SecondAnhui Highway Project
                                      Assumptions for FinancialForecasts-TTH

1. Norinal Traffic (AADT):
                          Sinall      Medium       Large          Sinall      Mcdiuin          Largc       Tractor
                           car          bus          bus          truck        truck           tiuck       -Trailer  Total
     Scction 1      Tongling Yangineicun
                             -
      2008                1,328        2,179         324          1,045         I.:55          1,206        494      7,93 1
      2017                2,199        3,153         469          1,515         1.959          1,744        714      I I.I53
      2027                3,256        3,844         572          1,847        2,388           2,126        870      14.903
     Scction 11:    Yangmcicun - Tanjiaqiao
      2008                1,298        2,193         229           998          1,315          1,171        484      7,688
      2017                2,156        3,171         331          1,448         1,901          1,692        698      I 1,397
      2027                3,191        3,866         404          1,765        2,3 I 7         2,063        85 I     14,457
     Scction 111:   Tanjiaqiao - Tongkou
      2008                1,095         1,779        382           905          1.166          1,038        425      6,790
      2017                1,752        2,597         558          1,323         I.702          1,355        554      9,841
      2027                2,354        3,166         68 I         1,613        2.075           I,65I        676      12,216

2. Toll Rates (Yuan/ veh-kin :
     7
                          Sinall      Medium        Largc          Small      Mcdiuin          Largc       Tractor
                           car          bus           bus          tnick        truck          truck       -Trailer
           2008           0.600        0.900         1.200         0.600       0.900           1.200        1.600

3. Opcrating Taxcs:
   a. Busincss Tax                           5% of total rcvcnuc.
   b. City Tax                               7% of businesstax.
   c. Education lcvy                         3% of busincsstax.

4. Opcrating Cost:                              lncrcasc 5 % pa.
   a. Wages and bcnefits:                       Y 30,000/ staff/ ycar, 40 staffs/ station, 5 stations.
   b. Maintcnancc (million Yuad kin):
                         Routinc                          Mcdium                                      Major
                         (annual)                         (i5 ycars)                               [.:10ycars)
                          0.05                              0.35                                       0.65

   c. Operatingmatcrials andsupplies       0.286 inillion Yuan pcr km.
   d. Administration                      60.0% of wagc andbenefits.
   c. Othcrs                               0.048 million Yuan pcr kin.
   f. Dcprcciation                            30 ycars straight-line mcthod

5. Incoinctax                              33.0% of total profit bcforc taxa
6. Borrowing:       The IBRD              5.00% on 20 ycar maturities, LIBOR US$bascd singlc currciicy
                                                 including 5 years gracc period.




                                                                - 58 -

                                                                                                 APPENDIX C

                                TONGLING-TANGKOU                            HIGHWAY
                       FIRRSimulationandProbabilisticRiskAnalysis

Summary:
       Display Rangc is from -5.0% to 10.0%(in %)
       Entire Rangc i s from -5.7% to 10.3% (in %)             -
       Aftcr 918 Trials, thc Std. Error o f thc Mcan is 0.1%

Statistics:                                      Value         Pcrccntilcs:
       Trials                                     918
       Mcan                                      I.2%                                     Pcl-ccntilc         (in %)
       Mcdian                                    I.2%                                              0%         -5.7%
       Modc                                         ___                                          10%          -2.3%
       Standard Deviation                        2.6%          Low Sccnario                      20%          -I.3%,
       Variance                                  0.1%                                            30%          -0.3%
       Skcwness                                   0.18         Most Likclv                       40%           0.5%
       Kurtosis                                   2.64          a=-                              50%           1.2%
       Cocff. o f Variability                     2. I 8       High Sccnario                     60%           I.Y%
       Range Minimum                            -5.7%                                            70%           2.6%
       Range Maximum                            10.3%                                            X0%           3.4%
       Range Width                              16.1%                                            90%           4.6%
       Mean Std. Error                          0.09%                                           100%          I0.3%,

                                              Forecast: FIRR (2009)
        918 Trials                            Frequency Chart                                   2 Outliers




                        x
                    -5 0%             -13%                 2.5%             6 3%                10 0%
                                                         (in %)       .


                                                   Assumptions

Traffic growth                                                 Basic toll
Noiinal distribution with parametcrs:                          Normal distribution with paramctcrs:
Mean                         100.0%                            Mcan                          100.0%
Standard Dev.                 10.0%                            Standard Dcv.                   10.0%
Sclccted rangc is from -Infinity to +Infinity                  Sclcctcd rangc i s fro111-1nfinlty to +infinity
Mcan valuc in simulation was 1OO.I%                            Mcan valuc in sim~ilationwas 100.I%

Total working cost                                             Capital Investment
Triangular distribution with paramctcrs:                       Triangular distribution with paraamctcrs:
Minimum                      90.0%                             Minimum                         90.0%
Likcliest                    100.0%                            Likeliest                     105.0%
Maximum                      110.0%                            Maximum                       110.0%
Sclccted range IS from 90.0% to 110.0%                         Sclcctcd ra11gcIS froill 90.0% to I10.0%
Mcanvaluc in simulation was 99.9%                              Mcan valuc in simulation was IOl.G%

Toll charges growth
Triangular distribution with paramctcrs:
Minimum                      90.0%
Likclicst                    100,0%
Maximum                      110.0%
Sclcctcd rangc is from 90.0% to 110.0%
Mcan value in simulation was 100.0%




                                                         - 59 -

                                                                                                          APPENDIX D
                                                                                                                   Page 1 o f 2

                 Anhui: HighwayRevenue andExpenditureDuringTenthFiveYear Plan
                                                         (Yuan million)

                                                                  2001       2002     2003      2004      2005      Total

Revenue:
         1 Road maintenance fee                                  1,230.1 9  1,292.69 1,356.28  1,424.09  1,495.30 6,798.55
        2 Toll revenue                                           1,200.00   1,260.00  1,323.00 1,389.15  1,458.60 6,630.75
        3 Surcharge on passenger tickets                            192.57   202.19    2 12.30   224.19    235.40   1,066.65
        4 Surcharge on freight tickets                             252.19    264.77    278.01    293.56    308.24   1,396.77
        5 Vehicle purchase fee                                       25.00                                       -     25.00
        6 Financial allocation                                                 75.00    75.00     75.00     75.00     300.00
        7 MOC subsidy                                              923.00    800.00    850.00    900.00    950.00 4,423.00
        8 State (SDPC) subsidy                                      l00.00    100.00    100.00   100.00     100.00    500.00
        9 Bank loan                                              2,500.00   2,500.00 2,500.00  2,500.00  2,500.00 12,500.00
       I O Fund-raised by enterprise                               400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00   2,000.00
       11 Other funds                                            3,200.48   3.883.86 4,489.41  5,144.3 1 5,860.31 22,578.37

                                  Total                          10.023.43 10,778.51 11.584.00 12,450.30 13,382.85 58,219.09

 Exoenditure:
       INewconstructionandrehabilitation                         7,840.56   8,467.80 9,145.23  9,876.85 10,667.00 45,997.44
       2 Tax                                                         81.87     95.14    102.47    110.43    1 19.06   508.97
       3 Traffic safety supervision                                  28.42     31.81    35.34     38.49     41.98     176.04
       4 Major maintenance                                         475.65     504.19   534.44    566.5 I 600.50 2,68 1.29
       5 Medium maintenance                                        407.70     432.16   458.09    485.58     514.71 2,298.24
       6 Routine maintenance                                       257.21     268.78   280.88    293.52     306.73  1,407.12
       7 Adnunistration and study                                   180.00    189.00    198.45   208.37    218.79     994.61
       8 Repayment o f interest and principle                       752.02    789.63    829.I O  870.55     914.08 4,155.38

                                  Total                          10,023.43 10,778.51 11,584.00 12.450.30 13,382.85 58,219.09

 Total Road Network (hi)   -(a)                                     65,353    67,000    68,000    69,000    70,000     --
 Average annual increase                                            46.9Yo      2.5yo    1.5%      1.5%)      1.4%      1.7%
 Total maintenance expenditure (million Yuan)-(b) /-I             1,140.56   1,205.13 1,273.41  1,345.61  1,421.94  6,386.65
 Average unit maintenance expenditure (`000 Y/hl)- (b)/(a)                      17.99    18.73     19.50     20.31     18.82
 Average annual increase                                             __17.45    3.1%     4.1%      4.1%)      4.2%      3.9%

/-I:Sumofrehabilitation,major,mediumandroutinemaintenance.
    Actual :2001; Best estimate: 2002; Forecast: 2003 thereafter.




                                                            - 60 -

                                                                                                         APPENDIX D
                                                                                                                 Page 2 o f 2

               Anhui: Highway RevenueandExpenditure DuringEleventhFive Year Plan
                                                        (Yuan million)

                                                                 2006      2007     2008       2009      2010      Total

Revenue:
          1 Road maintenance fee                                 1,570.07  1,648.57 1,73 1.OO 1,817.55   1,908.43 8,675.62
         2 Toll revenue                                          1,531.52  1,608.10 1,688.50  1,772.93   1,861.57 8,462.62
         3 Surcharge onpassenger tickets                          247.17    259.53   272.50     286. I 3   300.44  1,365.77
         4 Surcharge on freight tickets                           323.65    339.83    356.82    374.67    393.40   1,788.37
         5 Vehicle purchase fee
         6 Financial allocation                                    100.00    100.00   l00.00    100.00     100.00   500.00
         7 M O C subsidy                                          900.00    850.00    900.00    900.00     900.00 4,450.00
         8 State (SDPC) subsidy                                    100.00    100.00   100.00    100.00     100.00   500.00
         9 Bank loan                                            2,000.00  2,000.00  2,000.00  2,000.00   2,000.00 10,000.00
        I O Fund-raised by enterprise                              500.00   500.00    500.00    500.00     500.00 2,500.00
        11 Other funds                                           7,02 1.93 7,387.39 7,663.06  7,999.33   8,346.65 38,418.36

                                  Total                        14,294.34 14,793.42 15.31 1.88 15.850.61 16,410.49 76,660.74

  Expenditure:
        1 New construction and rehabilitation                  11,500.00 11,845.00 12,200.35 12,566.36 12,943.35 61,055.06
        2 Tax                                                      128.36    138.40   149.21     160.87    173.44    750.28
        3 Traffic safety supervision                                45.79     49.94    54.47     59.40      64.79    274.39
        4 Major maintenance                                        634.13    669.64   707.14    746.74     788.56  3,546.21
        5 Medium maintenance                                       543.53    573.97   606.11    640.06     675.90 3,039.57
        6 Routine maintenance                                      315.93    325.41   335.17    345.23     355.58  1,677.32
        7 Administration and study                                 225.35    232.11   239.08    246.25     253.64  1,196.43
        8 Repayment o f interest andprinciple                      901.25    958.95 1,020.35   1,085.70  1,155.23  5,121.48

                                  Total                        14.294.34 14.793.42 15.31 1.88 15,850.61 16.410.49 76,660.74

  Total RoadNetwork (km) -(a)                                      71,014    72,044   73,088     74,147    75,222     --
  Average annual increase                                            1.4%     1.5%      1.4%      1.4%       1.4%      1.4%
  Total maintenance expenditure (million Yuan)-@) /-1            1,493.59  1,569.02 1,648.42   1,732.03  1,820.04  8,263.10
  Average unit maintenance expenditure (`000 Y/km)- (b)/(a)         21.03     21.78    22.55      23.36     24.20     22.61
  Average annual increase                                           3.5%      3.5%      3.6%      3.6%      3.6%       3.6%

/-1: Sum of rehabilitation, major, medium and routine maintenance.
    Actual :2001; Best estimate: 2002; Forecast: 2003 thereafter.




                                                            -61 -

                               Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                              CHINA: Second Anhui Highway Project

Procurement

Summary of PPCA'sFindings
1.      A procurement capacity assessment ofthe project executing agencies was begun inSeptember
2002 and completedinJanuary 2003. The Procurement Capacity Assessment Report is intlie project file,
and this annex summarizes its findings.

2.      APCD will be responsible for all project-related procurement activities. It has developed relevant
experience as the implementing agency for tlie Bank-financed Anhui Provincial Highway Project. APCD
established a dedicated Project Execution Office (PEO) under tlie previous project that will conduct the
day-to-day management o f the proposed project. The PEO has about 30 experienced staff fully versed in
Bank procurement processes and procedures and will increase the number o f staff to as many as 40
duringthe project implementation. As a government organization, PEOhas been authorized to implement
the project.

3.       APCD has selected C M C InternationalTendering Company (ITC-CMC) as procurement agent.
ITC-CMC has 17 years o f experience inBank-financed projects, especially ininternational competitive
bidding(ICB) procurement. APCD and ITC-CMC are also fully familiar with national competitive
bidding(NCB)procedures inBank-financedprojects.

4.       The procurement capacity assessment found the overall risk o f the procureinelit process
"average" and confinned the capacity and capability o f APCD and tlie other agencies iiivolved to manage
project procurement activities satisfactorily. The assessment took tlie following factors into
consideration:

             APCD has experience with a Bank-financed project.
             PEO has set up a unitwith an experienced procureinelit agent to inanage project
             procurement. Staff who worked on the previous project will continue to serve for the new
             project and have enhanced their knowledge o f the Bank's requirements for procurement and
             tlie selection o f consultants duringproject preparation.

             APCD has agreedto implement recommendations inthe procurement assessment to
             strengthen the capacity o f implementing agencies, including the preparation and distribution
             o f a procurement manual to all procurement staff, on-the-job training, and occasional
             procurement seminars and workshops.
             The Bank will monitor procurement closely through its standard review procedures,
             seminarslworkshops, supervision missions, and procurement post-review missions.

5.       As the procurement capacity assessment indicates, China's procurement procedures has
variations from the Bank's procurement guidelines (for example, by pennittiiigbracketing and merit
point system for bid evaluation), and tlie Chinese Govemineiit has yet to finalize new model bidding
documents or reach agreement with the Bank on new guidelines for use inBank-financed projects.
However, Anhui provincial government and APCD are committed to followiiig the Banli`s guidelines,
 and if discrepancies arise between domestic policy and Bank guidelines, tlie Bank's policy and guidelines
will prevail.



                                                     - 62 -

6.      The Project Agreement provides the following:

    a. All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper with iiatioiiwide
        circulation inChina and ina local newspaper of province-wide circulation in the project entity.
    b. Such advertisement shall provide adequate time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification
        or biddingdocuments and prepare and submit their response; and inany event a minilnuino f 30
        days shall be given to bidders between the date of advertisement and the deadline for submission
        o f bids, and the advertisement and the biddingdocument shall specify the deadline for such
        submission.

    C.  Qualification requirements o f bidders and the method o f evaluating tlie qualification o f each
        bidder shall be specified indetail inthe biddingdocuments.
    d. All bidders shall be requiredto provide security inan amount sufficient to protect the project
        entity in case o f breach o f contract by the contractor, and the biddingdocuments shall specify the
        required form and amount o f such security.

    e. The time for opening o f all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt o f bids.
    f. All bidsshallbeopenedinpublic; allbidders shallbe afforded anopportunity to bepresentif
        they so desire (either inperson or through their authorized representatives) at the time o f bid
        opening.

    g.  N o bidmay be rejected solely on the basis that the bidprice falls outside any standard contract
        estimate, or margin, or bracket o f average bids established by the bidding entity.
    11. Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that is to say, the
        bidder who meets the appropriate standards o f capacity and resources and whose bidhas been
        detenninedto be substantially responsive to the biddingdocuments issued to bidders and to offer
        the lowest evaluated price.

     1. The winningbidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake responsibilities
        for work not stipulated inthe biddingdocuments or otherwise to modify the bid as originally
        submitted.

    1.  A provision requiring suppliers and contractors to permit tlie Bank to inspect their accounts and
        records relating to the performance o f the contractor and to have them audited by auditors
        appointed by the Bank.

ProcurementMethods(Table A)

7.      Procurement arrangements are outlined inTable A. The procurement o f goods and works will be
carried out incompliance with the World Bank's Guidelines: procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA
Credits (January 1995,revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999) and the
procurement o f services will comply with Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002). The
Chinese goveminent and the Bank standardized the documentation for procurement, which covers the
prequalification o f contractors, I C B and N C B for civil works, and ICB for goods, for Chinese conditions
on the basis o f model documents with appropriate changes to reflect the latest Bank Standard Bidding
Documents that will be used for all relevant procurement processes under the project. When no agreed
model documents exist, Bank standard documents will be used. The general procurement notice for the
project was published inU.N.Development Business, issue No. 593, o f October 31, 2002 and will be



                                                      - 63 -

updated annually. For ICB, differences between the Chinese model biddingdocuments and the Bank
standard biddingdocuments will be addressed through the preparation and issuance o f a change list that
will be included inthe biddingdocuinents.

8.       Works (US$568.5 million,includingcontingencies).Civil works for Tongling-Tangkou
Highway (TTH) will be divided into 18 contracts with an average size o f about USS23 million. The
contract packagingwas determined takmg into consideration construction volumes, inajor tunnels and
bridges, construction procedures and approaches, the source o f materials, andjurisdictional divisions.
The 18 civil works contracts for TTH will be procuredunder ICB procedures. There will be one tender
call for the 18 civil works contracts, which will be bid on a slice-and-package basis; to attract
international contractors and large Chinese contractors, qualified finns will be allowed to bid for inore
thanone contract. Contractors biddingfor civil works under ICB will be prequalified. The specific
procurement notice for the civil works and consulting services requiredto supervise TTH was published
inthe UNDevelopment Business onNovember 16,2002. Eachcontract for works estimatedat US$50
million or inore will provide for a dispute review board inthe standard biddingdocuinents (referred to in
paragraph 2.42 o f Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits). For contracts estimated
at less than USS50 million, a dispute review expert will be used. Chinese contractors are no longer
eligible for domestic preference under I C B works procurement. Electromechanical works will be
procured with local funds following local procedures.

9.       Other works, including buildings (estimated at US$10.78 million, with three contract packages),
rural road improvement (US$69.13 million, with 13 contract packages), the highway safety program
(US$2.5 1 inillionwith two contract packages), and weighing stations (US$0.44 inillion with one contract
package), for which each contract has a value of less than US$l0 million, will be awarded following
NCBprocedures acceptable to the Bank. Because the contracts will be relatively small, scattered
throughout the province, and implemented over four years, ICB i s notjustified or practical; however,
foreign f i r m s will not be prevented from participating.

10.      Equipment(US$7.65 million). Under the previous Anliui Provincial Highway Project, APCD
procured some maintenance equipment. Taking into account the convertibility o f spare parts among the
existing equipment fleet, APCD intends to procure equipment under this project as well. APCD decided
to procure additional equipment with local financing.

 11.      Consultants(US$10.91 million, includingcontingencies).This component includes
consultants financed by the Bank for an estimated US$2.32 million, and consultants financed from
domestic sources for an estimated USS8.59 million and procured through domestic procedures.
Consultants financed by the Bank and required for construction supervision (international finn),staff
training, and studies will be selected and employed under tenns and conditions acceptable to the Bank
according to Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January
 1997, revised inJuly 1997, January 1999 and May 2002). The Standard Request for Proposals (July
 1997, revised inApril 1998, July 1999 and March 2002) will be used for these consultant services.
Consulting services from firms with an estimated contract cost o f more than US$l00,000 to a total value
o f US$1.46 million will be procured through quality- and cost-based selection (QCBS). For training
programs and studies, services from firms with an estimated contract o f less than USS100,OOO to a total
value o f USSl.O million will be selected through consultant's qualification selection. Services that are
estimated to cost less than USS100,OOO per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured
by single-source selection inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraphs 3.8 through 3.11 o fthe
 Consultant Guidelines. Local experts froin various independent provincial universities and institutes will
be used to the extent possible ensuring that eligibility requirements stated inthe Guidelines are met and



                                                       - 64 -

their participation i s consistent with Bank requirements on hiring universities and institutes. All
consultant services financed by the Bank for inore than US$200,000 will be advertised inDevelopment
Business and all consultants' contracts will be nationally advertised.

Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)

12.      Prior review procedures will be used for civil works contracts with an estimated cost o fUS$5
million or more and consulting services with an estimated contract cost o f more than USS350,OOO for
firms and US$lOO,OOO for individuals. This will apply to 97 percent o f the total contract values of works
and 53 percent o f the total contract values o f services financed by the Bank. For contracts below these
limits, post-review procedures will be followed, with a sample ratio o f 1:10. Single-source selections,
regardless of the value o f the contract, will be subject to the Bank's prior review.

Advance Contracting

13.      APCD has requested advance contracting and retroactive financing for consultants for
construction supervision o f TTH. This would allow for the training o f local staff, setting up o f the
supervision offices, and the startup of construction supervision by the time contracts are signed with
contractors. Expenses to be incurred by the implementing agency are estimated at USS400,000, and the
amount subject to retroactive financing is estimated at US$364,000.




                                                      - 65 -

Procurement methods (Table A)




                                                  (2.50)             (2.50)
  Total                        468.34    82.86    4.96     75.67   631.83
                              (212.03)  (33.15)   (4.82)   (0.00)  (250.00)




                                        - 66 -

                                                       Selection Method
  Consultant Services
  Expenditure Category   QCBS        QBS       SFB      LCS         CQ        Other      N.B.F.   Total cos(
A. Firms                   1.46      0.00      0.00     0.00       0.99        0.00      8.45          10.90
                          (1.33)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)      (0.99)     (0.00)     (0.00)       (2.32)
8. Individuals            0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00       0.01        0.00      0.00          0.01
                         (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)       (0.00)
                  Total    1.46      0.00      0.00     0.00        1.00       0.00       8.45         10.91
                         (1.33)     (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)      (0.99)     (0.00)     (0.00)       (2.32)




                               ContractValue                                       Contracts Subject to
~~          ~




  Expenditure Category           Threshold                Procurement                  Prior Review
                              IUS5 thousands)                Method                    (US5 millionsl
  1.Works                       > 10million             ICB, Prior Review           18 contracts (TTH)
                                                                                    USS468.34million

                            >5 million <10million      NCB, Prior Review            13 contracts (RRIP)
                                                                                     USS69.13inillion
                                 < 5 inillion
                                                        NCB, Post Review                6 contracts
                                                                                     USS 13.73million
  2. Services                    > 100,000             QCBS, Prior Review         2 contracts (supervision,
                                                       for >S 350.000 firins               study)
                                                                                     U S $ 1.46million
                                 < 100,000              CQ, PostReview,
                                                            Individuals         10 contracts (study, training
                                                                                      US%1.OO million

             Total value of contractssubject to prior review:             32 contracts, USS538.77 million
                     Overall Procurement RiskAssessment:                 Average
  Frequency of procurement supervisionmissions proposed:                  One every 6 months (includes
                                                                          special procurement supervision
                                                                          for post-review/audits)




                                                 - 67 -

              Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                               CHINA: Second Anhui Highway Project

Financial Management
1. Summary of the FinancialManagement Assessment

1.       Conclusion of financial management assessment.The task team has assessedthe adequacy o f
the project financial management system for the Second Anhui Highway Project. The assessment,
conducted according to guidelines issued by the Financial Management Sector Board on June 30,2001,
has concluded that the project meets the Bank financial management requirements stipulated inBP/OP
10.02. Inthe task team's opinion, the project will have an adequate project financial management system
inplace that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status o fthe
project inthe reporting format agreed with the project and as requiredby the Bank.

2.       Fundingsources for the project include the Bankloan and counterpart funds. The Bank loanwill
be signed betweenthe Bank and the People's Republic o f China through its Ministry o f Finance (MOF),
and on-lending arrangements for the Bank loans will be signed between MOF and the Government of
Anhui through the Anhui ProvincialFinance Bureau(APFB), andbetween APFB andthe Anliui
Provincial Communications Department. The Bank loan proceeds will flow from the Bank into the
special account maintained by APFB for the project inrespect o f reimbursable expenditures incurred, or
to contractors or suppliers via bank accounts with major commercial banks acceptable to the Bank. The
project will disburse according to traditional disbursement techniques and will not use FMR-based
disbursements, inaccordance with the agreement between the Bank and MOF. The counterpart funds to
be contributed directly to the project will come from three sources: appropriations by the Ministryo f
Communications (MOC), contributions by APCD, and loans from domestic commercial banks.

3.       N o outstanding audits or audit issues exist with any o f the implementing agencies involved inthe
proposed project. The task team, however, will continue to be attentive to financial management matters
and compliance with audit covenants duringproject supervision.

4.       Country Issues. N o country financial accountability assessment (CFAA) has beenperformed for
China, although dialogue with the Chinese Government inrespect o f the C F A A exercise i s underway.
The planned approach to CFAA i s to build on the Asian Developinent Bank's Study o f Financial
Management and Governance Issues in China in2000 and analyze areas that have changed rapidly inthe
past few years or that deserve further scrutiny and over time cover all major areas usually assessedas
part o f a full CFAA. Currently, for reference purposes, the Bank relies on the Asian Development Bank
study.

5.       Nevertheless, developments inpublic expenditures, accounting, and auditing, and the Bank's
recent experience with projects inChina, show that substantial achievement has been made infinancial
accountability, and further improvement is expected inthe next few years. As economic reformunfolds,
the Chinese Government has come to realize the importance o f establishing and maintaining an efficient
and effective market mechanismto ensure transparency and accountability and minimize potential fraud
or corruption.

6.       According to a unique arrangement with PRC, funding o f Bank projects (inparticular Bank
loans) i s controlled and monitored by MOF and its extension, i.e., finance bureaus at provincial,
municipaUprefecture, and county levels. However, project activities usually are carried out by
implementing agencies o f a specific industry or sector because o f the technical expertise required for


                                                     - 68 -

project implementation. This arrangement usually requires close coordiiiatioii for projects, because the
multilevel management o f funding and implementation mechanisms often presents a great challenge to
smooth project implementation. This assessment therefore focuses on APFB, which will handle
special-account activity for the project, and the Project Execution Office, which will be responsible for
implementing the project.

7.       StrengthandWeakness The project personnel who have been identified to assume financial or
accounting positions have relevant work experience and educational background, and most o f them have
had experience with the ongoing Bank-financed project. Inaddition, the project execution office will
benefit from the extensive experience that APFB has had with Bank projects. However, an accounting
software that will be used to track financial activities has been developed only recently and introduced in
the accounting department o f APCD. Although the software i s considered appropriate for the proposed
project, i t has not been widely used inChina, and project accounting staff have not receivedtraining on
it. A monitoringmechanism and a backup plan should be inplace incase the accounting software
package does not function as expected. The task team will inoiiitor accounting work closely, particularly
at the initial implementation stage, to ensure proper setup and accounting activities.

8.       ImplementingEntity.A project leadinggroup will be formed to provide overall guidance and
coordination and monitor project implementationat the provincial level. The group will be chairedby
Mr.HuangYuezhong, the vice govemor ofAnhuiProvinceincharge o fcoinmunication-related matters
and will consist o f representatives from line departments o f the provincial goveniinent, such as Anhui
Provincial Development and Planning Commission, Anhui State Land Resources Administration, APFB,
and APCD. M O C will provide coordination and supervision guidance at the central level.

9.       The PEO, established under APCD and headed by Mr.H e Guang, director o f APHAB, has been
formally established. PEO will assume overall iinpleinentatioii and coordination responsibility and
directly implement all project components.

10.      Inaddition, the ForeignFundDivision ofAPFB willplay amajor role inproject implementation,
including overall monitoring, implementing financing arrangements, and financial management. APFB
also will be responsible for maintaining, monitoring, and reconciling the special account to be established
for the project, and reviewing, verifying, and approving withdrawal applications prepared by the project
before submitting them to the Bank for disbursement processing. The foreign fund division has
experience with Bank projects and i s familiar with Bank disbursement procedures. Inaddition, the
Bank's experience with APFB interms o f special account management and disbursement processing
indicates that APFB meets and complies with the Bank's relevant policies or procedures. For smooth and
successful project implementation, close cooperation and coordination between APFB and PEO are
critical.

11.      FundsFlow. One special account for the project will be set up and managed directly by APFB,
and on-lending agreements will be signed between MOF and APFB, and between APFB and APCD. The
Bank loan proceeds will flow from the Bank to the project special account, to APCD for reimbursement
o f expenditures incurred for the project and advancedby the APCD, or directly to contractors or
suppliers. Counterpart funds include contributions made by M O C and funds raised by APCD, including
lending from commercial banks. The contributions will be appropriated by M O C directly to APCD, and
domestic loan proceeds will also be injected directly to the project.




                                                      - 69 -

12.     Staffing. Adequate project accounting staff with educational background and work experience
commensurate with the work they are expected to perform is one o f the factors critical to successful
implementation o f project financial management. Onthe basis of discussions, observation, and the
review o f the educational backgrounds and work experience of the staff identified for financial and
accounting positions, the Bank task team considers that the staff are appropriate for the responsibilities to
be assumed. Inaddition, the task team notes that most o f the project financial staff have experience from
the ongoing AnliuiHighway Project.

13.     T o strengthen financial management capacity and achieve consistent quality o f accounting work,
the task team has suggested that a project financial management manual be prepared. The manual will
provide detailed guidelines on financial management, internal controls, accounting procedures, fund and
asset management, and withdrawal application procedures. APCD has prepared a draft manual and
submitted i t to the Bank inOctober 2002. It was found satisfactory and appropriate for the project. A
finalized copy will be available to all relevant project staff before project effectiveness.

14.     Accounting policies and procedures.          The administration, accounting, and reporting o f the
project will be set up inaccordance with the following MOF regulations and circulars:

        0    Circular no. 127, Temporary Regulations on Financial and Accounting Management for
             Projects Financedby the World Bank, issued in 1993. Inline with other Bank-financed
             projects inChina, the project will use this circular as a basis for bookkeeping and preparation
             o f project financial statements and management reports. Accrual accounting and
             double-entry bookkeeping will be adopted by the project.

        0    Circular no. 12, Regulation for the Submission o f Withdrawal Applications. issued in
             December 1996. This circular includes detailed procedures for preparing and submitting
             withdrawal applications and retention o f supporting documentation.

        0    Circular no. 13, Accounting Regulations for World Bank-Financed Projects, issued January
             2000 by MOF. The circular provides in-depth instructions for the accounting treatment of
             project activities and covers the following:

             o    Chart o f account
             o    Detailed accounting instructions for each project account
             o    Standard set o f project financial statements
             o    Instructions on the preparation o f project financial statements.

 15.     This standard set o fproject financial statements has been agreed to betweenthe Bank
and MOF and applies to all Bank projects appraised after July 1, 1998. It includes the following
financial statements:

        0     Balance sheet
        0     Statement o f source and use o f fund
        0     Statement o f implementation o f credit/loan agreement
              Statement o f special account.

 16.     Circulars 127 and 13 are simplified versions o f the Accounting Standards for State-owned,
InfrastructureOriented Projects (the "Standards"), taking into consideration unique characteristics o f
Bank projects. The Standards are modeled after the principles o f International Accounting Standards and
provide detailed guidelines for accounting for activities o f an infrastructure-oriented project.




                                                      -70-

17.     The PEO will manage, monitor, and maintain accounting records o f the project, prepare financial
statements, and subinit them to the Bank for review and coinmelit on a regular basis.

18.     Internal Audit. The internal audit department and fiiiaiicial division o f APCD, as well as APFB
will assume internal audit responsibilities. The task team will evaluate work performed by such internal
auditors and determine the degree o f coinpliaiice inrespect of project implementation and Bank
supervision mission.

19.     ReportingandMonitoringandFormatof FinancialStatements. The following financial
statements represent the standardproject financial reporting package agreed to between the Bank and
MOF, and have been discussedand agreed with the proposedproject office. The project financial
statements will be submitted as part o f the Financial Monitoring Report to the Bank 011 a semiannual
basis no later than August 15 and February 15 o f the subsequent year and include the following four
statements:

        0    Balance sheet
        0    Summary o f Sources and Uses o f Fundsby Project Component
        0    Statement o f Implementationo f Loan Agreement
        0    Statement o f Special Account.

20.     InformationSystems.As stated inparagraph 7, an accounting software developed byAPCD
and approved by the provincial scientific coimnittee will be used to track project financial activities. The
Bank task team will monitor accounting work closely, particularly at the initial implementation stage, to
ensure proper accounting setup and operations.

21.     Supervision Plan. Conductingtwice yearly supervision missions for financial management is
recommended at the initial implementation stage to ensure proper accounting setup and operations and
assess the need for further assistance or training. From the inidpoint on, an annual supervision mission
for financial management aspects may be sufficient. To maximize the efficiency and effectiveness o f
supervision missions, reviews o f procurement and financial manageinent, statements o f expenditure, and
disbursement should be carried out simultaneously.

2. Audit Arrangements

22.     The Bank requires that project financial statements be audited inaccordance with standards
acceptable to the Bank. Inline with other Bank-financedprojects inChina, the project will be auditedin
accordance with the Government Auditing Standards o f PRC (the 1997 edition). The Anliui Provincial
Audit Bureauhas been identified as auditor for the project. Annual audit reports will be issuedinthe
name of Anhui Provincial Audit Bureau and will be subject to reviews by the China National Audit
Office (CNAO). The Bank accepts audit reports issued by CNAO or provincial audit bureaus for which
CNAO i s ultimately responsible.

23.     Audit reports on annual consolidated financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6
months o f the end o f each calendar year, with a separate opinion on statements o f expenditures and the
special account.




                                                     -71 -

3. Disbursement Arrangements

24.     The project will disburse using the traditional disbursement method and will not use FMR-based
disbursements, inaccordance with the agreement between the Bank and MOF.

25.     Bank loan proceeds will be disbursed against eligible expenditures as stated inTable C.

26.     Disbursement methods such as replenishment, direct payment, and special commitment are available to
the project. The statement o f expenditure limits will be set up inline with procureineiit post-review thresholdas
follows: (i)each contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent o f USSS million or less; (ii)
                                                                                                        each
contract for consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent o f USS350,OOO or less and (iii) each contract for
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO or less.

27.     One special account will be established for the project and maintainedby APFB. The authorized
allocation of the special account will be equivalent to about 4 months of eligible expeiises reimbursable through
the special account. The allocation o f the special account is proposed to not exceed US$18 million equivalent.
However, the authorized allocation will be limited to US$12 inillion equivalent untilthe aggregate withdrawals
and outstanding special commitments are equal to or exceed US$75 million equivalent.

28.     APFB will be directly responsible for the management, monitoring, maintenance, and reconciliation o f
the special account activities o f the project. Supporting documents required for Bank disbursements will be
prepared or collected by the PEO inAPCD and submitted to APFB for verification and approval before the
APFB sends them to the Bank for further disbursement processing.

4. Retroactive Financing

29.     Retroactive financing o f up to USS364,OOO will be appliedto expenditures made after June 1,2003 for
the training under construction supervision.




                                                     - 72 -

  Allocation of loan proceeds(TableC)

                                 Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds

           Expenditure Category               Amount in US$million       Financing Percentage
  Works
\  TTH Civil Works                                  196.82                           48%
II RRIP
   TTH Buildings                           III       3.78                           40%
                                                    24.2 1        III               40%                III
   Blackspot Improvement                             0.88                           40%
   Weighing Station                                  0.16                           40%
IServices                                  I                      I                                     I
   Construction Supervision                           1.25             919'0 o f foreign expenditures
   Training                                          0.90              100% o f foreign expenditures
   Studies                                           0.21              91% o f foreign expenditures
  Unallocated                                        19.29

  Total Project Costs with Bank Financing -         247.50
                                                                  I
               Interest during construction          0.00
                              Front-end fee1I        2.50         I                 100%                I
 ITotal                                             250.00




                                                  - 73 -

                                Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                              CHINA: Second Anhui Highway Project

1 Proiect Schedule                              I          Planned         I     Actual       I
/Timetaken to prepare the project (months)      I        14                I                 I
  First Bank mission (identification)                   03/29/2002              03/29/2002
 Appraisal mission departure                            03/03/2003              0211612003
  Negotiations                                          04/2112003              05/12/2003
  Planned Date of Effectiveness                          1211012003


Prepared by:
AnhuiProvincial Communications Department

Preparation assistance:
Japanese Trust Funds

 Bank staff who worked on the proiect included:
                                                        Speciality
                                         Task Team Leader
  Han-Kang Yen, EASTR                    EconomicIFinancial Evaluation
  Toshiyuki Yokota, TUDTR                EngineeringJRural Roads
  Tony Whitten, EASES                    EnvironmentlBiodiversity
  Ani1 Somani, EASES                     Environment
  Peishen Wang, EACCF                    Environment
  Zhang Chaohua, EASES                   Social/Resettlement
  Zhefu Liu, EACCF                       SocialIResettlement
  KarinNordlander, LEGEA                 Legal
  Robert O'Leary, LOAG3                  Disbursement
  Yang Dawei, EACCF                      Procurement
  Cliau-Ching Shen, EACCF                Financial Management
  Zhang Fang, EACCF                      Disbursement
  Teresita Ortega, EASTR                 ProgramAssistant
  Xin Clien, EACCF                       Operation Assistant
  Setty Pendakur                         SafetyITraininglSocial Assessment
  ~   h Kumar
          n                              ConstructionQuality




                                                 - 74 -

                             Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                            CHINA Second Anhui Highway Project


A. ProjectImplementationPlan
   Project Implementation Plan   *                                             January 2003

B. Bank Staff Assessments
   Project Procurement Capacity Assessment                                     January 2003
   Project Financial Management Assessment    **                               November 2002

C. Other
   Pre-Feasibility Study Report (Hetongliuang (Tongling to Taolin) Highway)    November 2001
   Feasibility Study Report (Tongling-Tangkou Expressway)                      December 2001
    Supplementary Report to Feasibility Study Report                           June 2002
   Traffic volume at each interchange and road crossing                        June 2002
   Feasibility Study Report for Shitai-Qiaotoudian Road Improvement Program    April 2002
   Feasibility Study Report for Jingxian-Maolin Road Improvement Program       April 2002
   Feasibility Study Report for Xianyuan-Xinmingsanxi Road Improvement         April 2002
   Feasibility Study Report for Hongmen-Jinde Road Improvement Prograin        April 2002
   Feasibility Study Report for Xinqiao-Dabeifu Road Improvement Program       April 2002
   Environinental Impact Assessment TOR for Tongling-Tangltou Highway(TTH)*    May 2002
   Environmental Assessment Summary for TTH       *                            December 2002
   Environmental Assessment Report (TTH)                                       December 2002
   Environmental Management Plan (TTH)                                         December 2002
    Environmental Impact Report (Jingxian-Maolin Section)                      December 2002
    Environmental Impact Report (Xinqiao-Dabeifu Section)                      December 2002
    Environmental Impact Report (Shitai-Qiaotoudian Section)                   December 2002
    Environmental Impact Report (Hongmen-Jinde Section)                        December 2002
    Environmental Impact Report (Xianyuan-Xinmingsanxi Section)                December 2002
    Resettlement Action Plan  *                                                November 2002
    Appraisal Report on Poverty Alleviation inAffected Areas                   July 2002
    Report on Cultural Relic Investigation                                     October 2002
    Social Appraisal Report for TTH                                            August 2002
    Phase IFinal Report -- Review o f Engineering Designs andBiddingDocuments  August 2002
    Institutional Strengthening and Training Report                            August 2002
    Study o f Rural Road Improvement Prograin                                  October 2002
    Study o f Highway Maintenance Component
    Concept report on Road Safety ImplementationPrograin
    Financial Manual
    Strengthening and Reforming Highway Maintenance (a backgroundnote)

*Including electronic files




                                                 - 75 -

                                           Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                              CHINA: SecondAnhui Highway Project
                                                             23-May-2003
                                                                                                                     Difference between expected
                                                                                                                              and actual
                                                                  OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
 Project ID   FY    Purpose                                   IBRD        IDA                  GEF    Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO68058      2003 CN-Yixing Pumped Storage Project             145.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00   145.00        0.00      0.00
PO70441      2003 CN-Hubei Xiaogan Xiangfan Hwy                250.00      0.00                 0 00     0.00   247.50      22.83       0.00
PO58847      2003 CN-3rd Xinjiang Hwy Project                  150.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00   141 50        6.50      0.00
PO60029      2002 Sustainable Forestry Dev(Natura1Forest)        0.00      0.00                 16.00    0.00    16.57        0.30      0.00
PO64729      2002 SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY DEVELOPMENTPRO           93.90      0.00                 0 00     0.00    88.46       -2.30      0.00
PO58846      2002 CN-Natl Railway Project                      160.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    65.33       -7.17      0.00
P070459      2002 CN-Inner Mongolia Hwy Project                100.00      0.00                 0.00     0 00   95.50         0.50      0.00
PO68049      2002 CN-Hubei HydropowerDev in Poor Areas         105.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00   105.00        8.50      0.00
PO71147      2002 CN-Tuberculosis Control Project              104.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00   95.33        -8.67      0.00
PO58845      2001 Jiangxi II Hwy                               200.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00   161.23       -1.77      0.00
PO51859      2001 CN-LIAO RIVER BASIN                          100.00      0 00                 0.00     0.00    83.15       14.23      0.00
PO56199      2001 CN-3rd Inland Waterways                      100.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    93.34        2.84      0.00
PO45915      2001 CN-Urumqi UrbanTransport                     100.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    65.26      31.16       0.00
PO56596      2001 CN-Shijiazhuang UrbanTransport               100.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    92.28      41.68       0.00
PO56516      2001 WATER CONSERVATION                            74.00      0.00                 0.00     0 00    50.59        3.14      0.00
PO47345      2001 CN-HUAI RIVER POLLUTIONCONTROL               105.50      0.00                  0.00    0 00    98.31       -7.19      0.00
PO56424      2000 TONGBAI PUMPED STORA                         320.00      0.00                 0 00     0.00   301.06       75.46      0.00
PO49436      2000 CN-CHONGQINGURBAN ENVMT                      200.00      0 00                 0.00     0.00   17986        37.26      0.00
PO42109      2000 CN-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT II                    349.00      0.00                 25.00    0 00   312.22      142.08      0.00
PO45264      2000 SMALLHLDRCATTLE DEV                           93.50      0.00                  0 00    0.00    32.43       17.48      0.00
PO45910      2000 CN-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                   15000       0.00                 0 00     0.00   135.81       36.56      0.00
PO58844      2000 3rd Henan Prov Hwy                           150.00      0.00                  0.00    0 00   105.29       32.29      0.00
P064730      2000 Yangtze Dike StrengtheningProject            210.00      0 00                  0.00    0.00   140.48       79.48      0.00
PO58843      2000 Guangxi Highway                              200.00      0.00                 0 00     0.00   137.17       44.67      0.00
PO64924      2000 CH-GEF-BEIJINGENVMT II                         0.00      0.00                 25.00    0 00    24.19       13.76      0.00
P042299      1999 TEC COOP CREDIT IV                            10.00     35 00                  0.00    0.00    37.39       -7.35      0.00
PO41890      1999 CN-Liaoning Urban Transpor!                  150.00      0.00                  0 00    0.00    56 61       45.41       0.00
PO36953      1999 CN-HEALTH IX                                  10.00     50.00                  0 00    0 00    40 86       16.62       0.00
PO38121      1999 CN-GEF-RENEWABLEENERGY DEVELOPMENT             0.00      0.00                 35 00    0.00    26.93       19.72       2.46
PO43933      1999 CN-SICHUAN URBAN ENVMT                       150.00      2.00                  0.00    0.00    97.50       55.12      12.17
PO46829      1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                 100.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00    12.87       99.87       0.00
PO41268      1999 CN-Nat Hwy4/Hubei-Hunan                      350.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00   107.40       39.65       0.00
P046564      1999 Gansu & Inner Mongoiia Poverty Reduction      60.00     100.00                 0.00    0.00    79.01       35.76      -8.01
PO46051      1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                        20.00      50.00                 0.00    0.00    27.96       27.70       0.00
PO49665      1999 ANNING VALLEYAG.DEV                           90.00      30.00                 0.00    0 00    34.04        7.65       0.00
PO03653      1999 CN-Container Transport                        71.00      0.00                  0 00    18.61    3.89       22.35       0.00
PO51856      1999 ACCOUNTING REFORM& DEVELOPMENT                27.40      5.60                  0.00    0 00    20.83       20.53       0.00
PO60270      1999 CN-ENTERPRISEREFORMLN                          0.00      5.00                  0.00    0.00     2.75        4.44       2.93
PO51888      1999 GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                          80.00      20.00                 0.00    0.00    54.25       32.55       0.00
PO51705      1999 Fujian II Highway                            200.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00    94.56       77.06       0.00
PO50036      1999 Anhui Provincial Hwy                         200.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00    70.08       28.58       0.00
PO56216      1999 LOESS PLATEAUII                               100.00     50.00                 0 00    0.00    60 60       48.82       0.00
PO58308      1999 CN-PENSION REFORMPJT                           0.00       5.00                 0.00    0.00     1.89        2.04       0.00
PO57352      1999 CN-RURALWATER IV                               16.00     30.00                 0.00     0.00   27.99       15.95       1.08
PO37859      1998 CN-GEF Energy Conservation                     0.00       0.00                22.00     0.00    4.11       21.97       0.00
PO49700      1998 IAlL-2                                        300.00      0.00                 0 00     0.00   16.67        6.59       0.00
PO46952      1998 FOREST.DEV. POOR AR                           100.00    100.00                 0 00     0.00   54.11      -52.96       9.39
PO40185      1998 CN-SHANDONGENVIRONMENT                        95.00       0.00                 0.00     1.40   28.29       25.29       0.00
PO51736      1998 E. CHINNJIANGSU PWR                           250.00      0.00                 0.00    86.00   62.95      148.95       4.36
PO46563      1998 TARIM BASIN II                                 90.00     60.00                 0.00     2.67   45.26       39.17       0.00
PO03619      1998 CN-2nd Inland Waterways                       123.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00   69.06       61.06       0.00
PO35698      1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                          300.00      0.00                 0 00   145.00   84 76      211.76       9.16
PO03614      1998 CN-Guangzhou City Transpor!                   200.00      0 00                 0 00     0.00  12954       128.46       0.00




                                                                 - 76 -

                                                                                                                        Differencebetween exoected
                                                                                                                                 and actual
                                                                    OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                             disbursements"
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                     IBRD          IDA                    GEF   Cancel.  Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
PO03566     1998 CN-BASIC HEALTH (HLTH8)                           0.00      85.00                 0.00      0.00   36.28       21.88       0.00
PO03606     1998 ENERGY CONSERVATION                              63.00       0.00                22.00      0.00   42.34       15.01       0.00
PO03539     1998 SUSTAINABLE COASTAL RESOURCES DEV.              100.00       0.00                 0.00      2.31   50.84       40.65       4.27
PO45788     1998 Tri-Provincial Hwy                              230.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00   48.00       29.20       0.00
PO36949     1998 CN-Nat Hwy3-Hubei                               250.00       0.00                 0 00      0.00   33.00       10.50       0.00
PO36414     1998 CN-GUANGXI URBAN ENVMT                           72.00      20.00                 0 00      0.00   76.87       58.92       8.47
PO03590     1997 QINBA MOUNTAINS POVERTY REDUCTION                30.00     150.00                 0.00      0.00   47.61       51.05       0.00
PO03643     1997 CN-2nd Xinjiang Hwy                             300.00       0.00                 0.00     60 00    9.78       69.78       9.78
PO03637     1997 CN-NATL RURAL WATER 3                             0.00      70.00                 0 00      0.00    3.84        6.43       6.26
PO44485     1997 SHANGHAI WAlGAOQlAO                             400.00       0.00                 0 00      0.00  122.29       79.59      19.34
PO36405     1997 WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                            400.00       0.00                 0.00     75 00   49.86      124.86      24.86
PO35693     1997 FUEL EFFICIENT IND.                               0.00       0.00                32.80      0.00    8.79       32.81       0.00
PO38988     1997 HEILONGJIANG ADP                                120.00       0.00                 0.00      0 00   13.08       13.08       0.00
PO34081     1997 XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                            430.00       a.00                 0.00     78.53    0.28      118.73       7.88
PO03654     1997 Nat Hwy21Hunan-Guangdong                        400.00       0.00                 0 00      0.00   71.59       71.59       0.00
PO03650     1997 TUOKETUO POWEWINNER                             400.00       0.00                 0.00    102.50   41.31      129.86      -3.43
PO03599     1996 CN-YUNNAN ENVMT                                 125.00      25.00                 0 00     19.48   53.28       72.17      -4.56
PO40513     1996 2nd Henan Prov Hwy                              210.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00   42.88       42.88      12.88
~oo36112    1996 CN-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                      125.00      25.00                 0 00     28.32   44.54       74.90       7.90
PO03649     1996 SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                              0.00      100.00                0 00      0.00    2 12       11.40       0.00
PO03648     1996 CN-SHANGHAI SEWERAGE II                         250.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00   60.16       60.16      -0.70
PO34618     1996 CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                             10.00      20.00                 0.00      0.00    5.54        7.77       0.00
PO03646     1996 CN-CHONGQING IND POL CT                         170.00       0.00                 0.00    164.82    1.31      166.13       1.31
PO03589     1996 CN-DISEASE PREVENTION (HLTH7)                     0.00      100.00                 0.00     0.00   13.07       22.68       0.00
PO03594     1996 GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                              60.00      90.00                  0.00     0.00   78.39       57.14       0.00
PO03638     1996 SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                             80.00      20.00                  0.00    16 00    5.20       22.25      -0.57
PO03571     1995 CN-7th Railways                                 400.00       0.00                  0.00   119.00   50.25      169.25      40.28
PO03585     1995 SHENYANG IND. REFORM                            175.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00   33.112      33.02       0.00
PO36947     1995 CN-Sichuan Power Transmission Project           270.00       0.00                  0.00    95.00   11.79      106.79       6.59
PO03647     1995 China Economic Law Reform -LEGEA                  0.00       10.00                 0 00     0.00    3.40         3.92      0.00
PO03642     1995 CN-ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                          400.00       0.00                  0.00     0 00   34.79       40.29       0.00
PO03598     1995 CN-LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                         110.00        0.00                 0.00     8.50    0.30         8.80      8.80
pa03603     1995 CN-ENT HOUSING & SSR                            275.00      75.00                  0.00    50.36   59.67      108.34       7.31
PO03404     1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV. CON                              0.00        0.00               10.00      0.00    0.02         0.78      0.00
PO03644     1994 XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                           0.00      110.00                 0 00     0.00    0.114       -1.85     -1.95
PO03626     1994 Fujian Prov Highway                             140.00        0.00                 0.00    18.11    6.65       24.76      24.74
PO03609     1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION                  255.011       0.00               10.00     37.67    9.11       46.78       0.00
PO03595     1994 RED SOILS II AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECl             0.00      150.00                 0.00     0 00    4.95         0.10     -1.73
PO03473     1993 CN-ZHEJIANG MULTlClTlES DEVELOPMENT               0 00      110.00                 0.00     0 00    0.14         0.30     -2.02
PO03592     1993 REF. 1NST'L.B PREINV                              0.00       50.00                 0.00     0.00    2.07         2.48      2.48

                                                       Total:  12902.30     1752.60             197.80    1129.27  5543.44     3721.53    211.72




                                                                   - 77 -

                                             CHINA
                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                         Jun30 2002
                                                 -
                                       InMillionsUSDollars

                                                       Committed                     Disbursed
                                                     IFC                           IFC
FY Approval    Company                          Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997           Orient Finance                   9.52   0.00    0.00  11.90    9.52   0.00    0.00   11.90
1997100        PTP Holdings                     0.00   0.03    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.03    0.00   0.00
1997           PTP Hubei                       11.72   0.00    0.00  23.29   1 1.72  0.00    0.00   23.29
1996           Pacific Ports                    0.00   2.54    0.00   0.00    0.00   2.54    0.00   0.00
2001           Peak Pacific                     0.00   0.00   25.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998           Rabobank SHFC                    0.90   0.00    0.00   0.90    0.90    0.00   0.00   0.90
2000           SSIF                             0.00   6.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.45   0.00    0.00
1998           Shanghai Krupp                  30.00   0.00    0.00  68.80   19.74    0.00   0.00   45.26
1999           Shanxi                          17.87   0.00    0.00   0.00   15.32    0.00   0.00    0.00
1993           ShenzhenPCCP                     3.76   0.99    0.00   0.00    3.76    0.99   0.00    0.00
200 1          Sino-Forest                     25.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  20.00     0.00   0.00    0.00
1995           Suzhou PVC                       0.00   2.48    0.00   0.00    0.00    2.48   0.00    0.00
1998           WIT                              5.00   0.00    0.00   5.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
2000           Wanjie Hospital                  15.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   15.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1996           Weihai Weidongri                  1.92   0.00   0.00   0.00     1.92   0.00   0.00    0.00
1993           Yantai Cement                    11.13   1.95   0.00   0.00   11.13    1.95   0.00    0.00
1998           Zhen Jing                         0.00   2.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   2.00   0.00    0.00
2002           Advantage                         0.00   0.25   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
1999100102     Bank of Shanghai                  0.00  24.67   0.00   0.00     0.00  24.67    0.00   0.00
1996           Beijing Home1                     2.50   0.50   0.00   I.65     2.50   0.50    0.00   1.65
1998100        CIGHoldings PLC                   0.00   3.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002           CPEF                              0.00  20.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1996           Caltex Ocean                     18.53   0.00   0.00  28.64   18.53    0.00    0.00  28.64
1998           ChengduHuarong                    1.40   3.20   0.00   8.60     3.70   3.20    0.00   4.30
1998           Chengxin-IBCA                     0.00   0.36   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.36    0.00   0.00
198ll92194     China Bicycles                    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1994           China Walden Mgt                  0.00   0.0 I  0.00   0.00     0.00   0.01    0.00   0.00
1994           China Walden Ven                  0.00   0.21   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.21    0.00   0.00
1994           Dalian Glass                      0.00   2.40   0.00   0.00     0.00   2.40    0.00   0.00
1999           Dujiangyan                       25.59   0.00   0.00  30.00   16.1I    0.00    0.00  18.89
1995           Dupont Suzhou                    12.46   4.15   0.00  10.40   12.46    4.15    0.00  10.40
1994           Dynamic Fund                      0.00   9.75   0.00   0.00     0.00   8.09    0.00   0.00
1999           Hansom                            0.00  16.10   0.00   0.00     0.00  16.10    0.00   0.00
2002           Huarong AMC                      31.50   0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002           IEC                              20.00   0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1996           Jingyang                         32.50   0.00   0.00  69.23   32.50    0.00    0.00  69.23
1998           LeshanScana                       6.10   I.35   0.00   0.00     4.50   1.35    0.00   0.00
2001           Maanshan Carbon                   9.00   2.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002           NCCB                              0.00  26.58   0.00   0.00     0.00  26.46    0.00   0.00
1996           Nanjing Kumho                     6.82   3.81   0.00  19.38     6.82   3.81    0.00  19.38
2001           New China Life                    0.00  30.70   0.00   0.00     0.00  23.32    0.00   0.00
1995           NewbridgeInv.                     0.00   1.95   0.00   0.00     0.00   1.95    0.00   0.00
                       Total Portfolio:        304.22 166.98   25.00 277.79  206.13  127.02    0.00 233.84




                                               - 78 -

                                               Aoorovals PendingCommitment
FY Approval    Company                       Loan      Equity    Quasi    Partic
2002           Darong                        10.00       0.00      ISO     8.00
2002           NaradaBattery                  6.60       0.00     0.00     0.00
2002           Zhong Chen                    25.00       0.00     0.00    32.00
2002           ASIMCO                         0.00      13.50              0.00
2002           Sino Mining                                         1.so
                                              5.00       0.00     0.00     5.00
2002           Shuang Deng                   12.50       0.00     2.80     0.00
2002           KHIT                           0.00       0.00     3.00     0.00
2002           SML                            0.00       0.00     6.00     0.00
1996           Jingyang                       4.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
1998           PTP HubeiBLINC                 0.00       0.00     0.00     1.50
2000           CIG Zhapu                      6.00       5.00     0.00     0.00
2000           Meijing                        9.00       0.00     0.00     7.30
2000           CIMIC Tile                    15.00       5.00     0.00    15.00
2001           Daning Coal                    0.00       0.00     2.00    15.00
2001           AACI                           0.00       0.00     2.00     0.00
2001           Minsheng                       0.00      23.50     0.00     0.00
2002           Huarong AMC                   15.00       0.00     3.00     0.00
2002           IEC                            0.00       5.00     0.00     0.00

               Total PendingComniitment:    108.10      52.00     21.80   83.80




                                          - 79 -

                                                     Annex I O : Country at a Glance
                                          CHINA: Second Anhui Highway Project
                                                                                   East     Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                               Asia B    middle-                                                   .-     ~


                                                                   China         Pacific   income            Developmentdiamond'
2001
Population,mid-year(millions)                                     1,271.9          1,826     2,164
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                   890            900      1,240                           Life expectancy

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                  1.129.3          1,649     2,677
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                                        0.9            1.1        1.o
Laborforce (%)                                                        1.o            1.3        1.2          GNI                                     -       Gross

Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                                        per                                        primary
                                                                                                             capita                                  enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationalpoverty line)                    5
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                               38             37         46
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                       71             69         69
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                               32             36         33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                            10             12          11                Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                    75             74         80
Illiteracy(?Aofpopulation age 75+)                                    15             14          15
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                   107           107        107                *       China
    Male                                                              106           106        107                        Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                            109           108         107

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                         1981       1991           2000       2001
GDP (US$ billions)                                       228.3      402.6        1,077.5                     Economic ratios'
                                                                                           1,150.'
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                             32.5       34.8          36.1        37.9
Exportsof goods and services/GDP                           8.6       19.4          25.9        25.8                                Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                32.9       38.1          38.8        40.3
Gross nationalsavingsiGDP                                 32.8       38.5          38.0        39.4

Current account balance/GDP                                0.4        3.8            1.9        1.5                                /l
Interestpayments/GDP                                       0.2        0.7            0.6        0.6          Domestic
                                                                                                             savings                                 Investment
Total debVGDP                                                                                                                     lqi
                                                           2.5       15.0           13.9       14.8
Total debt service/exports                                 6.9       10.1            7.4        6.8
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                            12.5       11.7
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                       46.0        43.5
                                                                                                                              inaemeaness
                                          1981-91 1991-01           2000           2001    2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           10.0         9.7        8.0            7.3        6.9                       China
GDP per capita                                 8.4         8.6        7.1            6.6        6.1                       Lower-middle-incomearou~
EXDO~~Sof aoods and services                  12.1         8.3       30.6            5.0        7.7



(?Aof GDP)                                                          I991           2ooo       2o01           Growth of inves?m%and       GDP(%)F
                                                                                                                                                          ~




Agriculture                                               31 8       245            159        152          :E                                                    I
Industry                                                  464        42 1          509         51 1
   Manufacturing                                          385        327            345        354          lo
Services                                                  21 8       334            332        336
                                                                                                              0
Privateconsumption                                                                                                    96      97      98    99        00       01
General governmentconsumption                             145        131            13 1       13 7
Imports of goods and services                              8 2       161            232        234                             '*'GDI      -GDP



(average annualgrowfh)                                1981-91 1g91-01              2ooo                      Growth of exports and imports (%)                    I
                                                                                                                        ~~                                      __
                                                                                                                                                  ~~~




                                                                                                                                                                  I
Agriculture                                                 5 2       4 0            2 4        2 8         40                                                    I
Industry                                                   114       126             9 6        8 7         20
   Manufacturing                                           11 1      11 6            9 1        9 0
Services                                                   126        8 7            7 8        7 4           O

Private consumption                                         8 3       8 6            8 7        6 2
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                9 9       8 5           122        115
Gross domestic investment                                  104       103             4 2       128
Imports of goods and services                               9 6       6 4           245        108

Note:2001 data are preliminaryestimates.
*The diamonds showfour key indicators in the country(in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill be Incomplete.




                                                                               - 80 -

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1981     1991    2000     2001          ~


Domestic prices                                                              Inflation (%)
(77change)
Consumer prices                             25.7      3.4      0.4     0.7
Implicit GDP deflator                        2.3      6.7      0.9     0.0
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                             24.2     16.9    15.3     17.2
Current budget balance                         ..     2.3      0.6     1 0
Overall surDlus/deficit                      0.8     -1.1     -3.6    -3 2                   GDP deflator     ""OICPI         I
TRADE                                                                                                                         I
                                           1981     1991    2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                                Export and import levels(US$ tnk)
Total exports (fob)                       22,007  71,843  249,210  266,155
 Food                                     2,924     7,226                    300 000
                                                           12,282   12,780
 Fuel                                      5,228   4,754    7,851    8,420
 Manufactures                             11,759  55,698  223,752  239,800
Total imports (cif)                       22,015  63,791  225,097  243,610
 Food                                      3,622    2,799  4,758     4,980
 Fuel and energy                             83     2,113  20,637   17,490
                                                                                                                              I
 Capital goods                             5,866   19,601  91,934  107,040
Export price index (1995=100)                 16       51      67       65            95    96    97     98     99     00   01

Import price index (1995=100)                 13      49       75       73                   M Exports          IImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    118      103      90       90

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                           I981     1991    2000     2001                                           ~. ._
(US$ mi//ions)                                                               current account balanceto GDP (a)
Exports of goods and services             24,410   78,909 279,561  299,410   5
Imports of goods and services             23,426  65,339  250,688  271,324
Resource balance                            984    13,570  28,873   28,086
Net income                                 -124       840 -14,666  -19,173
Net currenttransfers                           ..     830   6,311    8,492
Current account balance                     860    15,240  20,519   17,405
Financingitems (net)                           ..  -4,149  -9,971   29,920
Changes in net reserves                        .. -11,091 -10,548  -47.325        95    96     97   98       99       00    01
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         .. 48,154  171,753  219,970
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocal/US$)             2.1      5.4      8.3     8.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1981     1991    2000     2001                                          ~      -..-
(US$ millions)                                                               Composition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      5,798   60,259  149.800  170,000
  IBRD                                        0     3,494  11,118   11,479
  IDA                                         0     3,672   8,771    8,550               G: 17,682  A. 11.479

Total debt service                         1,744    8,305  21,728   20.900
  IBRD                                        0       357   1,291    1,716
  IDA                                         0       23      131      164
Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants                             19      406     147
  Official creditors                         506    2,044   1,927
  Private creditors                          89     2,493  -2,302
  Foreign direct investment                   0     4,366  42,096   47,052
  Portfolio equity                            0       565   7,814    2,404
World Bank program
  Commitments                                196    2,622   1,536    1230    A - IBRD                            E - Bilateral
  Disbursements                                0    1,280   1,907    1,947   B IDA
                                                                               -         D - Other multilateral  F Private
  Principal repayments                         0      131     644      999   C - IMF                             G Short-term
                                                                                                                    --
  Net flows                                    0    1,149   1,263      948
  Interestpayments                             0      250     778      881
  Net transfers                                0      899     485       67




                                                         -81 -

       Additional Annex 11:EnvironmentalAssessment and Action Plan Summary
                             CHINA Second Anhui Highway Project

A.      Background

1.      The Second Anhui Highway Project, to be financed by a World Bank loan, is classified as a
Category A project as per OP 4.01. The environmental assessment (EA) for the Tongling-Tangkou
Highway (TTH) component o f the project was carried out by the Sliangliai Ship and Shipping Research
Institute (SSSRI), with support from an independent environmental specialist. A separate assessment was
carried out on each rural road section. Drafts o f EA documents, including the environmental impact
assessment (EIA), the environmental inanageinent plan (EMP), and the executive suimnary were
reviewed and discussed indetail during project.preparation. The final drafts o f the EA documents were
submitted to the Bank inDecember 2002 and were found to be satisfactory.

2.      The preparation o f the EA reports followed the policy and administrative requirements for the
environmental assessment o f development projects inChina and the Bank's safeguard policies. The
inajor Chinese laws and regulations appliedto the EA assessment include: (a) Eiiviroiiineiital Protection
Law o f the People's Republic o f China (PRC), 1989; (b) Water and Soil Conservation Law, 1991; (c) Air
PollutionPreventionLaw, 2000; (d) Water Pollution Prevention Law, 1996; (e) Noise Pollution
PreventionLaw, 1996; (f) Circular on Strengthening EIA for Construction Projects Receiving
International Financing; and (g) Technical Rules for Enviroiiinental Impact Assessment, State
Environmental ProtectionAgency (SEPA), 1997. Of the 10 World Bank safeguardpolicies, the project
triggered OPIBPIGP 4.0 1 on Environinental Assessment; OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement; and OP
4.11 on Cultural Property. OPIODs on Forestry (OP/GP 4.36), Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), and Pest
Management (OP 4.09) were consulted inpreparingthe EA.

B.       ProjectDescription

3.       The project includes a new 116 lun,four-lane, access-controlled expressway from Tongling to
Tangkou inAnhui Province with an XOi100 kndhdesign speed. Other project coinpoiieiits include the
upgrading o f five rural roads under the Rural Road Improvement Program (RRIP) with a total length o f
234 luninseven counties, including four poor counties, from Class III/IV to Class IIIIIIstandards. The
total investment for the project i s about US$630 million, o f which the World Bank loan will be US$250
million. The construction o f the TTH i s scheduled for 2003-2007, and the RRIP i s scheduled for October
2003-June 2006.

C.       BaselineEnvironment

4.       Several significant natural reserves, scenic sites, and forest parks are located in the project region
and their distances from the TTH range from 0.3 kmto 4 lun,except for Taiping Lake. a inaninade scenic
lake, which the TTH traverses for about 9 lun.The natural reserves were the focus o f impact assessments
on the ecosystems, while the scenic sites are more sensitive to increasedvisitors and visual impacts from
the proposed highway. Some o f the sites, such as Huangshan mouiitaiii and Jiuliuashan mountain, are
world-renowned scenic sites and tourist attractions. Tourism is a inajor source o f income inthe
impoverishedregion and plays an important role inthe local economy. One o f the rural roads inthe RRIP
passes through the test (buffer) area o f the provincial Guniujiang nature reserve but does not require a
new alignment.




                                                    - 82 -

5.       The ecosystem inthe project area is primarily forest, with 70 percent forest coverage inmost
parts o f the project region, including plantedwoodland and secondary forest. Other vegetation coverage
includes bamboo, bush,tea garden, and agricultural crops. There is one protected species o f vegetation
within 1kmo fthe TTH alignment-one tree inHuangslian Districtnear the end o f the highway. A site
wildlife investigation inthe project area found a number of provincially protected species, but most o f
the wildlife is found inhigher altitudes inmountainous areas away froin areas with liuinan activities.

6.       A total o f 64 villages andtownships, 5 schools, and 2 senior houses were identified through field
investigation as sensitive or otherwise vulnerable sites along the TTH alignment. Noise monitoring was
conducted July 9-1 1, 2002 for 13 sensitive sites. Monitoring shows that both daytime and night-time
noise levels fall mostly below the applicable standards, except at one priinary school, where noise levels
exceededthe standards slightly at night.This indicates the high acoustic quality inthe area.

7.       For the five rural roads, there are 33 schools, four clinics, and 23 villages along the roads. A
similar noise-monitoring program was conducted. The results show that all recorded levels fall below or
far below the applicable standards, indicating a high-quality acoustic environinent in these rural areas.

8.        Existingambient air quality was determinedusingdata froin monitoring stations supplemented
by a monitoring programduringthe EApreparation (July 2002). Two representative monitoring points
were selected for the air quality baseline. The results show that total suspended particulate, NOx, and
NO2 measured at these locations all fell below applicable standards (Class I1inthe Air Quality
Standards), indicating highambient air quality and highassiinilative capacity inthe project areas. Similar
monitoring results were obtained for the rural roads. All air quality parameters met applicable standards,
confirming the highambient air quality o f the existing environinent.

9.        The proposed TTH will intersect several inajor surface water bodies, including Shuiqiao Lake,
Taiping Lake, Puxi River, and Machuan River, as well as several smaller water bodies. Surface water
quality was monitored in Shuiqiao Lake near the TTH bridge in July 2002 and previous water quality
data for other lakes and rivers are used inthe baseline assessment. The inonitoring results show that
water quality mostly complies with the standards, except for the permanganate index inthe Puxi River.
The rivers intersected by the existing rural roads are o f a high quality.

 10.      A survey by a professional archaeology and cultural relics institute was conducted betweenMay
and June 2002 and again in October 2002, covering the main highway alignment, the alternative
alignments, and all proposed borrow pits and waste disposal sites. The survey included data collection
and evaluation, walk-through o f the entire alignment, visual observation, and subsurface investigation
through boring. A total o f nine cultural relics were discovered, including seven froin the highway
alignment and one each froin a borrow pit and disposal site, including a dinosaur egg fossil site,
residential sites, a kilnsite, a cultural temple, and several tomb groups. None i s significant enough to be
classified as a state, provincial, or city-level protected cultural relic site. There are four county-level relic
sites along two o f the five rural roads (two pagodas and two bridges).

D.        Analysis of Alternatives

 11.      Four corridors were proposed, analyzed, and compared. A preferredcorridor was selected on the
basis o f the least overall environmental and socioeconomic impact. Five alternatives in short segments
were further analyzed within the preferred corridor. The alternative selected had relatively low impact to
inajor scenic sites; low impact on the ecosystem, including natural vegetation, ecosystem integrity, and
wildlife; low incremental increases innoise levels; the next-to-lowest impact on surface water bodies;



                                                      - 83 -

better compliance with urban development plans; better topography and geological conditions; and better
connection to the Huangshan mountain scenic site for effective promotion o f tourism in the region. The
selected altemative also received the support o f the local governments. Details o f the analysis o f
alternatives studied are discussed inthe EA report.

E.       Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Plan

12.      The major potential environmental impacts associated with the project and mitigation measures
are presented in detail inthe project EIA reports. These impacts include soil erosion, construction noise,
borrow pits and disposal o f excessive materials, construction camps, construction safety, temporary
access roads during the construction phase, and increased noise, motor vehicle emissions; and community
severance during the operation phase. The EA has developed a series o f measures to avoid, minimize,
mitigate, or otherwise compensate for the adverse impacts o f the'project.

Design Phase

13.      For biodiversity protection, the following mitigation measures have been incorporated into the
highway design:

             The highway alignment has been selected carefully to avoid occupying the core o f or
             otherwise sensitive ecosystems.

             Vegetation species will be selected carefully during landscaping planning.
             At the highway sections where wildlife may be active, 1.5-2 ino f thick bushwill be planted
             to avoid the impacts o f motor vehicle lights at night.
             A number of animal pathways will be constructed at Huangshanmountain, Shilishan
             mountain, and inYangmei village areas to facilitate crossings by animals.

             Creeping plants will be used at interchanges, bridges, and other buildings and structures to
             promote aesthetics.


14.      Measures to minimize noise have been incorporated into the design for sensitive receptors where
the noise level is predictedto exceed standards. These measures include noise insulation windows, noise
barriers, tree planting, increasing perimeter walls, and relocation. Inaddition, in several villages where
no mitigationmeasures are plannedbecause the noise levels are predictedto fall below the standards,
noise monitoringwill be increased to ensure that noise levels duringexpressway operation comply with
the predictions. Mitigation measures will be taken ifthe monitoring data show that noise levels exceed
the standards. Similar measures and applicationprinciples will be taken at sensitive receptors along the
connecting roads and rural roads where the noise level i s predicted to exceed standards.

15.      To minimize the impact on water quality, wastewater treatment facilities will be designed and
built at the service areas along the highway, including motor vehicle maintenance and repair shops, car
washing operations, and other domestic facilities. Two treatment processes are to be applied: For
car-washing water, the processes include sedimentation, oillwater separation, and filtration, with the final
effluent to be recycled for car washing. For domestic sewage, the treatment process will be sludge bed
reactor, and then discharge to the environment. These processes are based on mature and reliable
technologies and are capable o f meetingthe discharge standards.




                                                     - 84 -

16.      To minimize project impacts on community and farmland severance in the 15 townships and 48
villages directly impacted, 139 vehicle and pedestrian underpasses, 11overpasses, and 16 grade
separations were planned inthe project design. On average, there will be one crossing every 580 ino f
highway, which intheory is the greatest distance residents will have to walk to find a pass for crossing
the expressway. There are 4.1 crossings on average per village. Crossings allow farm vehicles to pass and
couldbe widened inthe future.

17.      Two sets o f mitigation measures will be implementedduring the design stage to minimize
impacts to the cultural relic sites already identified. For tlie Waiijiashong and Huangnixiang sites,
preservative excavation at the cultural relic sites will be conducted and completed before expressway
construction begins. Duringthis process, all valuable archaeological and cultural articles from the sites
will be uncovered, studied, andkept by tlie county museum. The excavated sites will bephotographed,
measured, documented, and modeled ifnecessary before being handed over to contractors for expressway
construction. For all other sites, the highway alignment will be altered to avoidpassing directly through
the site. Warnings and public notice boards will be erected inthose sites to alert the public for site
protection duringconstruction and operation o f the highway.

18.      The construction o f the TTH will encourage an increase intourisin to the scenic sites inthe
project regions. There are several environmental programs inthese reserves, including a inajor
environmental upgrading program for Huangshan mountain and Jiuhuashan mountain, funded partially
by the ADB. Furthermore, pollutioncontrol and environmental protection are major components inthe
master plans for the reverses and scenic sites. These programs will be implemented, mostly prior to the
opening o f tlie TTH in2008. Mitigation measures will include locating motor vehicle parking lots 300 in
from the reserve areas, providing sufficient garbage bins and washroom facilities, careful designing and
locating o f the tourist facilities such as hotels, encouraging tourists to have accommodations o f f the
mountains, and movingpollution-generating operations such as laundry o f f the mountains.

 19.     To control soil erosion and stabilize the exposed surface, permanent engineering works such as
concrete and stone pavement on deep slopes and other cut and fill areas are included in the design to
completely stabilize the soil surface. Other works include interceptionditches and landscaping. The six
borrow pits will be rehabilitatedby converting them into ponds or landscaping them after
earth-borrowing operations are completed. For the 16 construction waste disposal sites, retaining walls,
settling ponds, and drainage systems will be built. The stockpiles o f waste will be covered with soil and
landscaped. The same measures will be taken at all borrow pits and disposal sites used for the connecting
and rural roads.

20.       The design o f the highway will follow the natural terrain as much as possible and will avoid deep
cutting and highfilling. For areas where deep cuts or highfills cannot be avoided, mild slopes will be
adopted inthe design so that they look natural. The channel entrance and exits will be shaped to match
tlie surrounding environment. For the service areas, the color o f tlie structures will be selected to blend
into tlie backgroundcolors. For outstanding and eye-catching structures such as interchanges and bridges,
the architecture will have local characters and configurations that harmonize with the surrounding
 scenery and landscape. Highway supporting facilities, such as drainage, will be hidden under greenery
where possible.

 Construction Phase

 21.      Experience with previous World Bank-financed highway projects in China, including the
 ongoing Anliui Highway Project inthe same province, indicates that contractors' awareness o f and
 participation inenvironmental management during construction are critical for ensuring environmental


                                                       - 85 -

performance and pollution control at the construction sites. The environmental impact mitigation
measures and environmental management and monitoring plans will be incorporated into bidding
documents. Short training courses will be providedto all winning contractors and construction
supervisors on environmental policies and regulations, potential impacts, mitigationmeasures, daily
monitoring and reporting, and handling o f emergencies.

22.      The temporary-use sites will be restoredpromptly. For the most sensitive construction activities,
i.e., those in woodlands or near natural habitats, the forest authority will bc notified. Whcn nccessary,
protected zones will be defined or protection walls or slopes built. Construction noise such as explosions
will be avoidedat nightwhen wildlife is most active. Other mitigation measures duringconstruction
include careful selection o f sites for borrow pits and waste disposal, strict control o f the use o f wood
products froin outside, education and training for contractors, and close supervision and monitoring.

23.      Large and noisy construction activities will be kept at least 150 infroin populated areas.
Operation of loud construction machinery and major construction activities will be restrictedto the
daytime. Temporary noise barriers will be constructed to protect the sensitive receptors froin the impact
of construction noise. Construction vehicles will be directed to avoid sensitive locations and will be
banned at night.

24.      To ininiinize adverse impacts to surface water duringcoiistruction, cofferdam techniques will be
used inbridge-column construction, with complete isolation o f work areas. Bridge construction activities
will be scheduled to the extent possible duringlow-flow periods. Sewage froin plant sites and
construction camps will be held either at the sites and transported to treatment facilities regularly or
treated through on-site treatment such as septic tanks to meet the irrigation discharge standards.

25.      Unpaved access road and construction sites will be sprayed with water twice a day (once inthe
morning and once inthe aftemoon), or more frequently on dry and windy days to suppress airbome dust.
The mixingplant stations and other point sources o f air emissions will be located at least 300 inleeward
o f sensitive receptors. Trucks loaded with soil and other dusty materials, as well as stockpiles o f material,
will be covered with canvas. Temporary access roads will be located away froin residential areas to the
extent possible, and exits to truck parking will be covered with bamboo or straw sheets ifnecessary to
prevent dust from becoming airborne.

26.      All contractors and supervision engineers will receive basic training on identifying and
protecting cultural relics and the procedures to follow when they encounter chance finds during
construction. A procedure for handling chance finds -unexpectedly encountering a cultural relic during
construction -will be prepared and provided to the contractors, who will be requested to halt
construction until any chance finds have been studied by professional archaeologists. Contractors may
resume work at the site only if so instructed by authorities and cultural relics specialists following their
on-site investigation. The requirements will be included inconstruction contracts as contractors'
contractual obligations.

 Operation Phase

 27.      Pest management stations will be built on both ends of the highway, and motor vehicles
 suspected o f carrying forest pest will be inspected and controlled. Honking o f car horns will be banned in
 sections frequented by wildlife. The highway operators will be requested to establish contacts with
 Wannan (South Anhui) Wildlife Emergency Center to exchange inforination and save wildlife during
 incidents involving wounded animals along the TTH.



                                                     - 86 -

28.      No new school, hospital, or other sensitive facility will be allowed to be built within 200 ino f the
central line o f the highway. No new villages will be allowed to be sited within 50 ino f the highway.
Traffic management will be enforced and motor vehicles will not be allowed to speed or honk while
going through sections near sensitive receptors such as schools and homes for seniors.

29.      Motor vehicle emissions control requires an integrated approach froin numerous government
agencies as well as private sector stakeholders. The province will enforce standards for inotor vehicles
and fuels and will implement motor vehicle inspection programs to minimize air emissions from the
increased motor vehicle traffic on the highway.

30.      The province will set up a leading group involving relevant government agencies to handle the
transportation o f hazardous materials and emergency response inthe event o f a traffic accident involving
trucks loadedwith hazardous materials, particularly in sensitive locations such as bridges and places near
surface water bodies. Licensing and permitting procedures will be strictly enforced to control the traffic
involving hazardous materials on the provincial expressway and rural roadnetwork.

31.      Extensive environmental monitoring programs will be implementedduring both construction and
operation phases (details below) to ensure that adverse environmental impacts are as projected during the
EA andthat the mitigation measures proposedwill be implementedand effective. Inadequatemitigation
and unexpected adverse impacts will be detected promptly by the monitoring programs and appropriate
new actions will be taken to address them.

F.       EnvironmentalManagementPlan

32.      An environmental management plan (EMP) has been developed and is a separate document. The
EMPprovides a framework for implementingmitigation measures and environinental management and
monitoring during project implementation.

33.      Two layers o f organizations will be responsible for environmental performance o f the project. At
the first layer are found environmental management organizations, including the Environmental Office of
MOC, APCD, PEO, the expressway company to be established, and various technical groups for
environmental monitoring and design. The other layer i s made up o f the environineiital supervisory
organizations, which include SEPA and the environmental protection bureaus o f different levels o f
government inthe province.

34.      The E M P includes environmental monitoring programs for both the construction and operation
phases. The parameters to be monitored include resettlement, soil erosion, noise, dust, degradation o f
water quality, stream sedimentation, solid waste disposal, and electroinagnetic radiation. Duringthe
constructionphase, environmental monitoring will be conducted following two approaches: daily and
routine monitoringconsisting mainly o f visual observations and liinited equipment measurements such as
hand-held noise meters; and periodic monitoring byprofessionals usingstandard methods recognizedby
regulatory authorities. Monitoring reports will be compiled once every three months, summarizing the
findings o f the monitoring. The reports will be submitted to PEO as well as relevant agencies and the
World Bank. Duringthe operation phase, air quality and noise levels will be monitored once every six
months, and water quality will be monitored once a year.

G.       PublicConsultation andInformationDisclosure

 35.      Two rounds o fpublic consultation were carried out during the preparation o f the EIA: the first
round at the preparationo f the terms o f reference for the EA April 5-29, 2002, and the second round at


                                                    - 87 -

draft EA reports June 17-July 5 2002. Various techniques were used to consult the public, including
conducting public opinion surveys through questionnaires, holding public meetings at villages and with
local people's representatives, and holding interviews with affected groups and individuals. The people
consulted included mainly those who will be affected directly by the project. Relevant government and
nongovernmental organizations and experts on various environmental and socioeconomic issues also
were consulted. Intotal, 2,348 people participated inthe public coiisultatioii program.

36.     The EA team interviewed 60 people, including relocated persons, teachers, and management staff
from the scenic sites. Inaddition, they consulted eight township governments, seven local People's
Congresses, the local tourisin bureau, tlie forest bureau, and the nature reserve management authority.
These individuals and groups expressed their views on the highway construction and made suggestions
for mitigating adverse impacts.

37.      The public consultation was extended to tourists who will be affected by the projects. One
hundred copies o f a questionnaire were distributed randoinly to tourists at Huangshan mountain,
including 20 foreign tourists. The EA team received 97 completed copies. Among those surveyed, only
17.5 percent came to the site through the highway corridor (using S103), and inany felt tlie transportation
is inconvenient or very inconvenient (57.7 percent and 28.0 percent, respectively). The majority o f the
tourists wished to see the highway constructed (8 1.4 percent) and considered the protection o f
Huangshan mountain and convenient transportation equally important (78.4 percent).

38.      The EA teain also consulted tlie affected public along tlie five rural roads M a y 10-3 1, 2002. In
total, 291 affected local residents, local government officials, and local schoolteachers participated in
public meetings, 211ininterviews, and 245 in a questionnaire survey. The primary concern raisedduring
the public consultation is increased noise and the impact on traffic during construction.

39.      The EA teain has responded to the public's concerns. It has made provisions for setting up land
acquisition and resettlement offices under the APCD to develop, supervise, and iinpleiiieiit a resettlement
action plan (RAP).

40.      hicompliance with EIAprocess requirements ofthe Chinese government andthe WorldBank,
the completed draft EL4 and EMP reports as well as part o f the public consultation records were
distributed inpublic places along the highway, such as libraries and townships. Tlie concerned public can
have access to and review the reports at these places. Inaddition, project iiifonnatioii and the availability
of the reports were advertised inAnhui Daily, the province-wide newspaper, and two o f tlie most popular
InternetWeb sites inthe province (one o f which is a nationwide Web site). The dates and places o f
public consultation and information disclosure are summarized inthe tables below. Tlie final EA reports
were disclosed to the general public inDecember 2002.




                                                     - 88 -

                                       PublicConsultation


    Substance      By whom,with whom           When              Where              Bank's
                                                                                  requirement

EA TOR, using       By SSSRIwith eight       April 13-26,
group discussion,   township                    2002      governineiit offices,
personal interview  governments, seven                    school offices
                    Peoples Congresses,
                    andfour schools
Draft EA TOR        By SSSRIwith two         April 23-27, Offices o f these sites   OP4.01
Public meetings and nature reserves and         2002
interviews          one scenic site
Draft EA reports,   By SSSRI, with           June 19-26,  Village coinmittee
public meetings,    affectedrural residents     2002      halls, school yards    I  OP4.0i
group discussion,   in32 villages andtwo
and interviews      homes forseniors
Draft EA using      By SSSRI, with 1,684      June 2002   Villages and              OP4.01
public opinion      affected rural residents              Huangslian
questionnaires      and 97 randomly                       iiiountain and
                    selected tourists                     Jiuhuashaii
                                                          mountain scenic
                                                          sites
EA,usingpublic      By HDRI,with a total      May 2002    Villages along the        OP4.01
meetings,           o f 747 affected                      five rural roads
interviews and      residents along the
questionnaire       five rural roads
survey




                                             - 89 -

                                     InformationDisclosure


  Time                Location                                    Description
2002-4-11 AnhuiTransportation Daily          Report of Tongling -Tangkou Expressway
2002-6-20 Anhui Daily                        Public notice for information disclosure for Tongling
                                             -Tangkou Highway
2002-6-27 AnhuiMarket Daily                  The Tongling -Tangkou Highway will be constructed
                                             soon
2002-6-21 Web site o f Anhui Provincial      1. Information notice
          Transportation Bureau              2. Project briefing
          (www.ghj tt.ah.gov.cn)             3. Diagram o f alignment
2002-6-19 AnhuiProvincial Library            TOR for EA for the Tongling -Tangltou Highway
2002-6-18 Radio station o f Huangshan        Public notice for project information
          District
2002-6-21 Library o f HuangshanDistrict      TOR for EA for the Tongling -Tangltou Highway
2002-6-22 Web site o f Qingyang County       Public notice for information disclosure
          Transportation Bureau
          (www.ahqyjt.gov.cn)
2002-6-26 TV station of Qingyang County      Public notice for information o f project
2002-6-25 Library o f Qingyang County        TOR for EA for the Tongling-Tangkou Highway
2002-12   Qingyang County and                EA report of Tongling-Tangkou Highway
          Huangshan District libraries
2002-12   Village coinmittees o f Panlong,   Sumnary o f EA for TTH
          Hongshan, Dongbao,Fenshi,
          Yangmei, Sankou and Shancha
2002-12   Village halls, county libraries,   Draft EA reports for the five rural roads
          township government; and
          announced inlocal broadcasting
          svstein




                                              -90-

Additional Annex 12: Social Assessment and PovertyAlleviation Impacts Assessment
                            CHINA Second Anhui Highway Project

1.      At the suggestion ofthe World Bank, APCD engaged the Cross-cultural Research Center of
Zhongshan University inGuangdong Province to conduct a social assessment in the project areas and an
assessment o f the impact o f the project on poverty reduction. The center conducted its fieldwork inMay
and July 2002 inareas affected directly and indirectly and completed the reports inJuly and August
2002.

Social Assessment

2.      The social assessment was conducted to:

   0    identify the broad socioeconomic environmental and social development issues inthe project
            area;

   0    facilitate community participation and mobilization in project plaiining activities;

   0    solicit the stakeholders' perceptions, concerns, and recommendations for the project;

   0    assess the social impacts o f the project;

   0    propose measures to address these impacts inline with Bank policies;

   0    identify any ethnic minority communities inthe project areas; and

   0    assess project impacts o n thein and propose necessary mitigation measures.

3.      The social assessmentwas conducted ina sample o f 16 farming villages inboth directly and
indirectly affected areas. Participatory rural appraisal methodologies were used, including focus group
discussions, interviews, and questionnaire surveys. During group discussions and village meetings, the
assessment teain also employed community mapping, resource diagramming, preference ranking,
problem trees, seasonal calendars, and daily activity charts to facilitate fanners' participation and
thorough analysis. Analytical data come inainly from government statistics, historical records, and field
surveys.

4.      Data collected through statistics, records, and fieldwork were analyzed and the following
conclusions were reached:


         The project areas are situated inmountainous areas and are among the underdeveloped areas o f
         the province. Among the project counties, one ranks as a national-level poverty county and four
         are provincial-level poverty counties.
         Livelihood patterns are largely o f three types, with core activities based on cultivation, cash
         crops, and tourism. A large number o f local laborers have migrated to urban areas for
         employment, and the number o f migrants appears to be the deciding factor incharacterizing the
         economic status o f a village or a household.
         There are 110 ethnic minority villages inthe project areas.
         Gender discrimination has become less obvious over the years. The number o f women going
         out for employment is increasing.




                                                     -91 -

    e      Traffic conditions are generally poor and there i s great deinaiid for improving communication
           conditions. The project will improve access to markets, employment opportunities, and
           investment conditions. This project, with improved coimnuiiicatioii conditions, will facilitate
           economic development and reduce income disparity.

     0     Tlie biggest concern o f the local people is that different levels o f government will reduce their
           land compensation payment. They request establisliinent o f a complaint hotline regarding
           payment o f the compensation funds.

Assessmentof ProjectImpactonPovertyReduction

5.       This assessment was conducted     011 the basis o f the social assessment. The teain also conducted
fieldwork inanother 12 villages ineight counties. The assessment was conducted through PRA exercises
intlie villages, key informant interviews, focus group discussions, and analysis o fdata collected. The
assessment was to enable a better understanding of: i)tlie natural eiiviroiiiiieiit and social and economic
developineiit o f the local areas; ii)poverty status, reasons for the poverty, the government's strategy and
measures to reduce poverty; and iii)perceptions o f local people o f the project's impact.

6.       The team analyzed the collected infonnation. Its findings are described below.

7.       The project lies inthe south o f Ailhui Province, a mountainous underdeveloped area. It i s rich in
natural resources, with great potential for tourism. However, the transport system is poorly developed
and this poses one o f the biggest constraints for local development. This i s reflected inthe lack o f road
systems and the low grade o f roads.

8.       The project covers several state and provincial level poverty counties. There also are also pockets
o fpoverty inother counties, and seveii townships are targeted as key poverty townships. The poverty
population as defined by the government is about 140,000 inthe project areas.

9.       There are many reasons for the poverty situation. They include poor natural conditions
(mountainous area, little arable land), frequent natural disasters (flood, drought, wind, snow, hail), little
investment ininfrastructure development, low exposure to the outside world, and a mentality o f
dependence.

10.       The government has been implementing a multisectoral poverty reduction strategy intlie
province and the project areas. APCD has given priority to these poor areas iniiivestinent, and road
systems have seen gradual improvement.

 11.      The project, with an expressway and five rural roads, will significantly improve the transport
system inthe project areas. Indirectly, it will facilitate the socioeconomic development of the project
areas by promoting tourism, improvingthe overall investment environment, and facilitating tlie transfer
of information and new ideas and the implementationof the 10thFive-Year Plan, which is geared
towards poverty reduction.

 12.      Tlie local population i s divided in its opinion o f the project. The majority o f tlie population
ardently supports the project, believing the project will benefit them directly. Some are indifferent to or
are against the project. This is a small group that belongs mostly to the affected group that will lose their
land and houses.




                                                       - 92 -

              Additional Annex 13: Summary of the Resettlement Action Plan
                             CHINA: Second Anhui Highway Project

Background

1.        The TTH component requires land acquisition and the relocation o f households. APCD entrusted
Anhui Highway DesignInstituteand the East China Hydropower Survey and DesignInstitute inZhejiang
Province to carry out the resettlement planning. DuringMay-June 2002, these institutes completed the
inventory, census, and socioeconomic survey. The East China Hydropower Survey and Design Institute
carried out consultations with the affected villages to determine specific resettlement and rehabilitation
measures for each. A t the same time, the Cross-cultural Research Center o f Zhongshan University in
Guangdong Province was engaged to conduct a social assessment. The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
was prepared on the basis o f this fieldwork. Further fieldwork was carried out inOctober 2002 following
Bank recoinmendations, and the RAP was revised, incorporatingthe Bank's comments and the findings
o f the fieldwork.

2.        Much consideration has gone into the resettlement planning. Project alternatives were compared,
and the current alignment has the least resettlement impact. The RAP was prepared in accordance with
the LandAdministration Law o f the People's Republic o f China, which became effective inJanuary
1999, and with World Bank OP 4.12 on involuntary resettlement. The objective o f the resettlement
program i s to ensure the restoration o f livelihoods and production o f the affected people.

ProjectImpacts

3.        The project will require the acquisition o f land, relocation o f houses and tombs, and cutting
down o f trees. The project also will have an impact on some infrastructure, such as roads and power and
coimnunication lines. TTH will require the acquisition o f 9,365 inuo f land, of which cultivated land
makes up 4,440 mu, or 47 percent o f the total, and uncultivated land makes up 4,925 mu, or 53 percent.
The total number o fpeople affected through land acquisition is 9,963 in2,611 households. It i s estimated
that TTH may require 2,525 muo f land temporarily duringconstruction. The project also will require the
demolition o f 86,6 14 square meters of housing, including 79,832 square meters o f residentialhousing,
which will make it necessary to relocate 1,8 15 people in430 households.




                                                       - 93 -

                                    Tonglin        Qingyang         Shitai County    Huangshan        Total
                                    County         County                           District
 Pennanently Acquired Land
     Total:    mu                          616            4,058             209             4,481      9,365
     Cultivated land                       409            2,558               31            1,442      4,440
     Orchard                                 0                52               0               24         76
     Pond                                   58               136               0               25        219
     Forest land                            83             1,047             178            2,744      4,050
     Other lands                            64              265                1              246        575
 Number of HouseholdsAffected
     By land acquisition                   238             1,303              36            1,034      2,611
     By house demolition                     7               48                0              120        175
     Bybothland and house                   15               150               0               90        255
 Number of PAPS
     Byland acquisition                    944            4,943              130            3,946      9,963
     By house demolition                    84               160               0              479        723
     By both land and house                139               566               0              387      1092



Strategy for Livelihood Restoration

4.      Principles. The following were the guidingprinciples for developing the RAP:

     1. The affectedpeople should improve or at least restore their original living standards.

     ii.Anyonewholoseshisorherhouseshouldgetnewfreeplotsfornewhousecoiistructioninhisor
         her current village.
    ...
    111. Resettlement plans, sites o f new houses, standards, and building areas, as well as the
         corresponding compensation standards, should be determined after consultation with the affected
         people.
    iv. For all affected buildings, the compensation shouldbe calculated on the basis o f the current
         replacement cost without consideration o f depreciation. The construction materials froin the
         houses to be demolished belong to the owners o f the liouses.

     V.  The affectedbusinesses should be relocated as near as possible at their preference.

    vi. Landwill be redistributed to fanners losing land. Anyone who opts for self-resettleinent with
         non-farm employment can receive a resettlement subsidy.

5.       Relocation of households. Given the linear nature o f the project and the sinal1 number o f
affected households ineach village, all houses to be replaced are plannedto be built intheir existing
villages. The villages will provide new residential plots, and the specific house sites will be finalized
through consultation with the affectedhouseholds. Farmers will buildtheir own liouses with cash
compensation for replacement costs. A detailed unit rate analysis has been conducted for the replacement
cost of the different types o f affectedbuildings.Resettlement i s sclieduled to be completedbefore civil
works start.

6.       Rehabilitation of infrastructure. The infrastructure affected is mainly power,
telecoimnunications, water conservancy, and transportation facilities as well as roads. For these facilities,
compensation based on the replacement cost will be paid to the owners. The owners or the government
departments responsible for the facilities will be incharge o f the reconstruction.


                                                    - 94 -

7.       Enterprises and institutions. The sinal1businesses to be affectedare mostly family-run
operations, such as shops and haircutters. Field surveys and consultations indicate that their customers
come mainly froin their own villages. They would be given a free location for new business at their
preference intheir villages. The buildingand structures will be compensated incash at replacement cost.

8.       Livelihood restoration. Livelihoodrestoration for farmers losing agricultural land will follow
land and agricultural based strategy. All affected farmers will receive cultivated land through the
redistribution o f the remaining village collective land. Ifland loss is marginal and farmers prefer cash
compensation to going through the process o f land redistribution, cash coinpensation will be provided. In
the seriously affected villages, consultations with the affected village ineinbers on livelihood
development have identified areas o f need and formulated village-specific development measures,
including cash crops, reinforcing extension services, farmer training, agro-processing, and reclamationo f
barren mountain. For villages losing more than 25 percent o f their land, further coiisultations have
resulted invillage-specific strategies inlivelihood development. These are detailed inthe RAP.

Implementation Schedule

9.       The RAP implementationwill be alignedwith civil works construction. New house construction
will occur inphases, inaccordance with the civil works schedule. Resettlers inust be given at least four
months to buildtheir new houses before the demolition o f the old houses. Before new house
construction, a notice will be provided three months inadvance to allow for resettlement site selection,
planning, and development. Ifnecessary, housing construction time will be extended. Civil works will
start after land acquisition i s completed; land redistributionwill be done during winter. Infrastructure
rehabilitation will be completed before civil works start or resettlers move into their new houses.

Resettlement Organization

 10.     APCD i s incharge o f overall RAP implementation. A resettlement office with a coordinating
leading group has been established inAPCD. The RAPwill be implementedby resettlement offices at
countylcity or district and township levels. Their respective responsibilities and functions are detailed in
the RAP.

Monitoring and Evaluation

 11.     Both internal and external inonitoring is plannedfor resettlement implementation. Project
management will be responsible for the internal monitoring system. An independent monitor will be
engaged to undertake the external monitoring o f the resettlement program. The scope o f monitoring and
the monitoring targets, indicators, procedures, methodology, and reporting requirements are described in
the RAP.

Resettlement Cost

 12.     The total resettlement cost is 168.13 inillion yuan, equivalent to USS20.35 million. This budget
 includes the coinpensation fund for land (which makes up 49.4 percent o f the fund), houses and attached
 structures (12.5 percent), infrastructure, various relocation allowances, business loss duringtransition,
 support fund for vulnerable groups, management andmonitoring costs, and contingencies. All
 resettlement costs will financed by domestic funding.




                                                      - 95 -

                   Additional Annex 14: Study on Construction Supervision
                              CHINA: Second Anhui Highway Project

1.      Construction quality i s a serious concern for China because o f the rapid development o f its
highway sector. The problem i s o f both technical and administrative natures. Untilrecently, the
supervision o f highway construction was carried out by provincial coinmunications departments but this
i s changing. Under Bank-financed projects, joint localiforeign supervision teams now carry out
construction supervision. Generally, provincial communications departments either appoint a retired
engineer or one o f their own staffmembers as the chief supervision engineer. This does not establish
truly independent relationships among the client (the employer), the engineer, and the contractor. This
may result in some lack o f independence on the engineer's part and may affect the quality o f construction.
Hence, there i s a needto develop the relationship framework to make construction supervision more
independent and enhance the quality o f construction inChina.

Study Objectives

2.      The study has the following objectives:

        evaluate fonns o f construction supervision currently used in provincial coinmuiiications
        departments and the quality o f construction inAnliui, Guanxi, Jiangxi, Henan and Shaanxi
        provinces;

     0  review and evaluate best practices from similar construction projects in four other provinces
         (Guanxi, Jiangxi, Henan and Shaanxi) and a foreign country; and

     0  make recommendations and develop guidelines and operational procedures for construction
         supervision inAnhuiProvince (and other provinces) to for improving the quality o f construction
         to bringit inline with international best practices. These guidelines should specify the
         composition o f the supervision team, including clearly defined roles and responsibilities.

Specific Issues

3.       The study will evaluate five   issues and develop an operational framework reflecting best
practices for construction supervision. The study will address the following issues:

     0   status o f current construction supervision industry;

     0   selection procedures o f local supervision firms;

         roles and responsibilities o f a supervision team;
         relationships between the Employer (Client) and the Contractor; and

     0   current reporting and administrative procedures for supervision.

4.       Status of current construction supervision industry. The study will review the supervision
industry inthe provinces o fAnhui, Guanxi, Jiangxi, and Shaanxi. The review will include the number
and size o f firms, the firms' capabilities, the experience o f their staff, the size o f projects they have
supervised, the quality o f construction o f the works supervised, and other aspects o f the business. The
study also will investigate to what extent consultants migrate from one province to another and their
willingness to do so. Local employees' international work experience and knowledge o f international
construction supervision practices also will be assessed. Guidelines for minimumqualification



                                                       - 96 -

requirements and for engaging consulting firms and their future plans will be evaluated and
recommendations for improvement will be suggested.

5.       Selection procedures of local supervisionfirms. The study will identify the selection procedures
o f local construction supervision firms for construction projects. Procedures include guidelines, tendering
processes, work experience, and other criteria. The study will evaluate these and make recommendations
for improvement.

6.       Roles and responsibilities of a supervision team. The study will review the existing roles and
responsibilities inconstruction supervision contracts, hold extensive interviews at various levels to
identify the strengths and weaknesses of the current framework and study their effectiveness inthe
delivery o f road construction. The study will evaluate these strengths and weaknesses, identify areas for
improvement, and redefine the roles and responsibilities to improve clarity and efficiency.

7.       Relationships between the client and the contractor. The study will evaluate the relationships
betweenthe chief supervision engineer and h i s team (including the international consultant), as well as
the relationship between the employer (client) and the contractor. This evaluation will examine the
impact o f processes and administrative procedures on relationships, as well as language barriers,
documentation, turnaround time in decision-making and approvals, and other aspects o f the
client-contractor relationship. The study will assess the difference inperformance between selecting the
chief supervision engineer from an independent consulting coinpany and hiring a retired engineer or
existing employee from the same province.

8.        Current reporting and administipative procedures,foi- supervision, The study will review and
evaluate the reporting and administrative procedures relating to the chief supervision engineer (and the
international supervising consultant), the employer (client), and the contractor(s). The study will review
the effectiveness o f the procedures and identify barriers to achieving quality in construction. The study
also will examine procedures for preparing study reports, malting progress payments, issuiiigvariations
and changes to design, and other relevant issues and their impact on construction quality. The study will
make recommendations for improvingreporting and administrative procedures.

Timeliness

9.        The study, including 20 days o f training on construction supervision practices in a developed
country for two APCD staff members, will be completed within 18 months o f the date o f acceptance o f
the proposal.




                                                     - 97 -

                    Additional Annex 15: Study on Overloading of Vehicles
                              CHINA: Second Anhui Highway Project


The Impactof Overloading on Highway Asset Management

1.       The transport network infrastructure, which includes roadpavement and bridges, is constructed
and managed to withstand standard vehicle weights. Ifthe weight o f a vehicle exceeds the standard
limits, it causes excessive pavement deflection. This leads to premature pavement failure requiring extra
funds for maintenance. Therefore, for cost-effective highway asset management, it is essential to control
the overloading o f vehicles.

Current Status inChina

2.       InChina, the responsibility for controlling overloading is divided betweenprovincial
coinmunications departments and the traffic police. The control and inspection o f vehicles only with
regard to permissible axle loads are under thejurisdiction o f APCD but Anliui currently has no
inspection and control stations to check overloading. M O C has initiatedmeasures requiring some
provinces to formulate policies on the overloading o f vehicles and initiating regular inspections with
regard to the weight o f vehicles.

Tasks

3.       The study will address the following tasks:

    0    investigate the extent o f overloading on highways inAnhui Province and recoimnend strategies
         for implementing and improving control measures;

    0    training and staff development; and

         monitoring for effectiveness.

4.       Study the status and extent of overloading on highways in Anhui Province. The study will
investigate the status and extent o f overloading on highways inAnliui Province together with examples
o f best practices inthree other provinces and at least one developed country. The study will cover the
busiest highways inAilhui and recommend the best locations for buildingfour inspection stations. The
study also will cover the feasibility o fusingmobile stations and weigli-iii-motion  bridges.

5.        Training and staffdevelopment. The study will include foreign training for two members o f the
APCD staff for a 15-day period. The staff will be trained inhandling overloading issues in a developed
country. The study also will include a study tour for Anhui staff to visit three other provinces and staff
training inAnhui Province.

 6.       Monitoringfor effectiveness. The study will develop a plan for periodically monitoring the
 effectiveness o f weigh stations.




                                                     - 98 -

Recommendationsbythe Study

7.      The study will evaluate these factors and others that finds appropriate with a view to addressing
best practices on managing overloading inAnhui Province. The study will take into consideration
discussions with MOC, other government units, other provinces, and at least one foreign country.

8.      A report basedonthis research and incorporatingrecoinmendations for bestpractices to inanage
overloading of vehicles inAnhui Province will be prepared and submitted.

Timeliness

9.      The study will take 18 calendar months to complete.




                                                   - 99 -

- 100-

MAP SECTION


