Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7183 CHA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Second Anhui Highway Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
ANHUI PROVINCE 
 
Dated December 12, 2003  
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7183 CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 12, 2003, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ANHUI 
PROVINCE (Anhui). 
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in the amount of two hundred fifty million Dollars ($250,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Anhui 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
and 
WHEREAS Anhui, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) Anhui declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and economic practices, and road safety and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Anhui shall otherwise agree, Anhui shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) Anhui shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto,  Anhui shall: 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Anhui, a plan for the future operation of 
the Project; and 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Anhui on said plan. 
Section 2.04. (a) Anhui shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b) 
Anhui shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by Anhui of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) Anhui shall maintain or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or 
agencies of Anhui responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
 
(b) Anhui 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon Anhui’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, Anhui shall prepare and furnish 
to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds. 
(b) 
The first such financial management report shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective 
Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the 
Project through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each financial 
management report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Anhui 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Anhui thereof. 
Section 4.03. All this provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
Page  6
-
5
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 
(202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For Anhui Province: 
 
Anhui Provincial People’s Government  
221 Changijang Road 
Hefei, Anhui 230001 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(551) 265-6202 
 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Anhui may be 
taken or executed by the Vice Governor of Anhui or such other person or persons as said 
Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Anhui shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Yukon Huang 
Authorized Representative 
 
ANHUI PROVINCE 
 
By 
/s/ Zou Jiayi 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Works
Part A
:
General
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Prequalification
Bidders for works under Part A.1 of the Project shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more each. 
(c) 
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(d) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $85,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
(b) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under 
this Part C shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People's 
Republic of China promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the People's Republic 
of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required for compliance 
with the Guidelines: 
(i) 
all invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in China and such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of 
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission;  
(ii) 
qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents; 
(iii) 
all bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower, in case of breach of contract 
by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the 
required form and amount of such security; 
(iv) 
the time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline 
for receipt of such bids; 
Page  10
-
9
-
(v) 
all bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening; 
(vi) 
no bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower; 
(vii) 
each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents, and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted; and 
(viii) 
each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training under Part D.1 of the Project and studies under Parts D.2 
and D.3 of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for training under Part D.1 of the Project may 
be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 
and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 12 months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval. Selection of all consultant
s’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
 
1. 
In carrying out Part A of the Project, Anhui shall: 
(a) 
carry out the TTH EMP and the TTH RAP in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; and furnish to the Bank for its prior approval any proposed revision to such plans; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank: (i) an annual environmental monitoring report, by May 15 of 
each year, commencing May 15, 2004, and until completion of the Project; and 
(ii) by May 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing November 15, 2003, 
through the second year following completion of the Project, an internal 
monitoring report of the resettlement implementation activities and the results 
thereof during the immediately preceding six-months period; and 
(c) 
cause to be prepared, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,  by 
an independent entity acceptable to the Bank, and furnished to the Bank by February 15 
and August 15 of each year, commencing on February 15, 2004 through the second year 
following completion of resettlement activities under the Project, an external monitoring 
report on the resettlement implementation activities and the results thereof during the same 
six-months period as referred to in sub-paragraph (b)(ii) of this paragraph. 
2. 
In carrying out Part A of the Project, Anhui shall prepare, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to Bank, monthly progress reports on the 
civil works, commencing February 15, 2004, and until completion of the civil works 
under the Project. 
3. 
In carrying out Part A of the Project, Anhui shall, by June 30, 2006, provide to 
the Bank for its review and comments, an analysis and recommendation of the structure 
of toll rates on the Tongling-Tangkou Highway taking into consideration the results of 
studies on toll rate structures conducted under other Bank-financed highway projects in 
China, the experience with toll rates on major roads in Anhui and other parts of China, 
and the results of surveys of user responses to tolls. 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
4. 
In carrying out Part B of the Project, Anhui shall: 
(a) 
carry out the Rural Roads EMP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
furnish to the Bank for its prior approval any proposed revision to such plan; and 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank an annual environmental monitoring report, by May 15 of each year, 
commencing May 15, 2004, and until completion of the Project. 
5. 
In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, Anhui shall, by December 31, 2005, 
complete the program of improvements of road black segments and road blackspots, in 
accordance with an implementation schedule satisfactory to the Bank. 
6. 
Anhui shall carry out Part C.2 of the Project in accordance with a training 
program and timetable acceptable to the Bank, and shall complete such training program 
by March 31, 2005.  
7. 
In carrying out Part D.1 of the Project, Anhui shall, by November 15 in each 
year, commencing November 15, 2003, and until completion of the Project, furnish to the 
Bank for comments an annual training program, and, thereafter, carry out such program 
taking into account the Bank’s comments, if any. 
8. 
In carrying out Part D.2 of the Project, Anhui shall, by June 30, 2005, furnish the 
recommendations of the study to the Bank for comments and, promptly thereafter, 
prepare and carry out an action plan, taking into account the Bank’s comments on the 
recommendations, if any. 
9. 
In carrying out Part D.3 of the Project, Anhui shall, by June 30, 2005, furnish the 
recommendations of the study to the Bank for comments and, promptly thereafter, 
prepare and carry out an action plan, taking into account the Bank’s comments on the 
recommendations, if any. 
10. Anhui 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project, including the implementation of the TTH EMP, the TTH RAP 
and the Rural Roads EMP, and the achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year, 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
commencing February 15, 2004, and until completion of the Project, quarterly progress 
reports on the implementation of the Project; and 
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about February 15 of each year, commencing February 15, 2004, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
 
