Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 
LOAN NUMBER 7183 CHA
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Anhui Highway Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 12, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7183 CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 12, 2003, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by Anhui Province with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the 
loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to Anhui Province, 
as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Anhui 
Province (the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Anhui” means the Borrower’s Anhui Province, and any successor 
thereto; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by:  
 
(i) 
the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of 
income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such 
person must move to another location; or  
 
(ii) 
the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks 
and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the 
livelihood of such person; 
 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(e) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Anhui 
Province of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(f) 
“Rural Roads” means the roads in Jing, Jinde, Huangshan, Ningguo, 
Qimen, Qingyang and Shitai in Anhui to be improved or rehabilitated under Part B.1 of 
the Project; 
(g) 
“Rural Roads EMP” means the Environmental Impact Report and 
Environmental Management Plan, dated December 2002, in respect of Part B.1 of the 
Project, which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of Part B.1 of 
the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of said EMP, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; 
(h) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Tongling-Tangkou Highway” and “TTH” mean the road from Tongling 
to Tangkou in Anhui to be constructed under Part A.1 of the Project;  
Page  4
-
3
-
(j) 
“TTH EMP” means the Environment Management Plan for the 
Tongling-Tangkou Highway, dated December 2002, in respect of Parts A.1 and A.2 of 
the Project, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which 
sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of Parts A.1 and A.2 of the 
Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of said EMP, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; and 
(k) 
“TTH RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan for the Tongling-
Tangkou Highway, dated November 2002, in respect of Part A.5 of the Project, and 
referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which sets out the 
principles and procedures governing land acquisition from and resettlement and 
compensation to Displaced Persons, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure compliance with said RAP, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank. 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Anhui Province. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred fifty million Dollars ($250,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and 
any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semi-annually in 
arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
Page  6
-
5
-
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted b
y
the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 (c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause Anhui to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Anhui therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Anhui to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Anhui on 
the following principal terms: 
 
(i) 
the principal amount shall be made available in Dollars 
(determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or of payment out of the Special Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out;   
 
(ii) 
the following shall be recovered over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the 
principal amount so made available; and (B) an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the Loan;  
Page  7
-
6
-
(iii) 
interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and 
(iv) 
a commitment charge shall be charged on such principal amount 
of the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per 
cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.02 of the General Conditions to but not including the 
fourth 
anniversary 
of 
such 
date; 
and 
(ii) 
seventy 
five                  
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of  Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Anhui pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Anhui shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Anhui will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by Anhui, and is legally binding upon Anhui in accordance with its 
terms. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 Sanlihe 
 Beijing 
100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Cable address:   
Facsimile: 
 
FINANMIN 
 
(86-10)  6855-1125 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ 
Zou 
Jiayi 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Yukon Huang 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
10
 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated  
     % of  
  
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1)   Civil works:  
 
(a)  under Part A.1   
             196,824,000 
 
48% 
 
of the Project 
 
(b)  under Part A.2   
 
    3,780,000 
 
40% 
 
of the Project 
 
(c)  under Part B.1   
     
  24,210,000 
 
40% 
 
of
the Project 
 
(d)  under Part C.1    
                    880,000 
 
40% 
 
of the Project 
 
(e)  under Part D.4   
 
       160,000 
 
40% 
 
of
the Project 
 
(2) Consultants' 
 
services: 
 
(a) construction 
 
 
    1,250,000 
 
91% of foreign  
 
supervision 
     expenditures 
 
(b) studies   
 
 
       210,000 
 
91% of foreign 
 
expenditures 
 
(3)  Training 
 
 
 
      900,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures 
Page  12
-
11
 - 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated  
     % of  
  
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be Financed
(4)  Fee  
 
 
       
   2,500,000 
 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(5)  Premia for Interest   
                     ---  
 
Amount due under 
 
Rate 
Caps 
and 
     Section 
2.09 
(c) 
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
 
 
 
of this Agreement 
 
(6)  Unallocated  
 
              19,286,000 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 
 
            250,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “foreign expenditures” means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region 
and expenditures in the currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region shall be deemed “foreign 
expenditures”. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $364,000, may be made 
in respect of Category 2 (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 2003. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) under contracts for works costing less 
than $5,000,000 equivalent each; (ii) under contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms costing less than $350,000 equivalent; and (iii) under contracts for the employment 
of individual consultants costing less than $100,000 equivalent; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  13
-
12
 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower’s Anhui Province to support 
its social and economic development through the provision of an efficient, safe and cost 
effective highway infrastructure and the improvement of transport links. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Highway Capacity Expansion
1. 
Construction of a highway of about 116 kilometers between Tongling and 
Tangkou in Anhui, divided into two sections, one section of about 57 kilometers between 
Tongling and Yangmei and another section of about 59 kilometers between Yangmei and 
Tangkou, including tunnels and interchanges. 
2. 
Construction of toll stations, rest areas, and a management and maintenance 
center on the  Tongling-Tangkou Highway. 
3. 
Installation of electrical and mechanical facilities for tolling, monitoring, 
telecommunications and lighting on the Tongling-Tangkou Highway. 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance for construction supervision under Parts A.1, 
A.2 and A.3 of the Project. 
5. 
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in respect of Parts A.1 and 
A.2 of the Project. 
Part B
:
Rural Road Improvement Program
1. 
Improvement of five road sections totaling about 243 kilometers in the counties 
of Jing, Jinde, Huangshan, Ningguo, Qimen, Qingyang and Shitai.  
2. 
Provision of technical assistance for construction supervision under Part B.1 of 
the Project. 
Page  14
-
13
 - 
Part C
:
Highway Safety
1. 
Carrying out of a program of improvement in highway safety on two highway 
sections, about 114 kilometers on the Hefei to Huainan section of highway G206 and 88 
kilometers on the Maanshan to Nanling section of highway G205, comprising 
improvement works for black segments and black spots, improvement of intersections, 
and signing and marking. 
2. 
Carrying out of a training program for the staff of the Anhui Provincial 
Communications Department and its related agencies on safety audits for design, 
construction, operation and maintenance of highways, including provision of technical 
assistance.  
Part D
:
Institutional Development and Road Sector Management
1. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Anhui Provincial Communications 
Department through the provision to staff of study tours and training courses abroad, and 
in-country training courses. 
2. 
Carrying out of a study on the practices and the future direction of construction 
supervision in Anhui, including provision of technical assistance. 
3. 
Carrying out of a study on the overloading of vehicles and preparation of 
provincial regulations on overloading of vehicles, including provision of technical 
assistance. 
4. 
Construction of weighing stations along existing highways in Anhui.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  15
-
14
 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %
)
July 15, 2010 
1.00% 
 
January 15, 2011 
1.00% 
 
July 15, 2011 
2.00% 
 
January 15, 2012 
2.00% 
 
July 15, 2012 
3.00% 
 
January 15, 2013 
3.00% 
 
July 15, 2013 
4.00% 
 
January 15, 2014 
4.00% 
 
July 15, 2014 
5.00% 
 
January 15, 2015 
5.00% 
 
July 15, 2015 
6.00% 
 
January 15, 2016 
6.00% 
 
July 15, 2016 
6.00% 
 
January 15, 2017 
6.00% 
 
July 15, 2017 
6.00% 
 
January 15, 2018 
6.00% 
 
July 15, 2018 
5.00% 
 
January 15, 2019 
5.00% 
 
July 15, 2019 
4.00% 
 
January 15, 2020 
4.00% 
 
July 15, 2020 
4.00% 
 
January 15, 2021 
4.00% 
 
July 15, 2021 
2.00% 
 
January 15, 2022 
2.00% 
 
July 15, 2022 
2.00% 
 
January 15, 2023 
2.00% 
 
Page  16
-
15
 - 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
Page  17
-
16
 - 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  18
-
17
 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $18,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $12,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $75,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the  Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the  Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  19
-
18
 - 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the  Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the  
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  20
-
19
 - 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the  Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
