                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001185



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-71830)



                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$250 MILLION


                                      TO THE

                       PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                        FOR

                     SECOND ANHUI HIGHWAY PROJECT



                               December 21, 2009




Infrastructure Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective November 2009)

                  Currency Unit = RMB Yuan
                   RMB1.00 = US$0.15
                   US$ 1.00 = 6.83

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 ­ December 31


             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADT                     Average Daily Traffic
APCD                    Anhui Provincial Communications Department
APHAB                   Anhui Provincial Highway Administration Bureau
CAS                     Country Assistance Strategy
CPS                     Country Partnership Strategy
CPMS                    China Pavement Management System
EIA                     Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP                     Environmental Management Plan
ERR                     Economic Rate of Return
FYP                     Five Year Plan
GDP                     Gross Domestic Products
ICB                     International Competitive Bidding
IEG                     Independent Evaluation Group (in the World Bank)
M&E                     Monitoring and Evaluation
MOC                     Ministry of Communications
MOF                     Ministry of Finance
NCB                     National Competitive Bidding
NTHS                    National Trunk Highway System
PAD                     Project Appraisal Document
PDO                     Project Development Objectives
PEO                     Project Execution Office
QAG                     Quality Assurance Group (in the World Bank)
QSA7                    Quality of Supervision Assessment in FY05-06
RAP                     Resettlement Action Plan
RMB                     Renminbi (Chinese Yuan)
RRIP                    Rural Road Improvement Program
TTH                     Tongling-Tangkou Highway
VOC                     Vehicle Operating Costs

                Vice President: James W. Adams, EAPVP
        Acting Country Director: Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun, EACCF
               Sector Manager: Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez, EASCS
           Project Team Leader: Mitsuyoshi Asada, EASIN
             ICR Team Leader: Mitsuyoshi Asada, EASIN
                                                CHINA
                                      Second Anhui Highway Project




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 19
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ........................................................................ 243
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component................................................................................ 254
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes........... 308
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ......................................................................... 320
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................. 331
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................... 342
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 40
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 41
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Second Anhui Highway
Country:                China                   Project Name:
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P076714                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-71830
ICR Date:               12/23/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 250.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 250.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 250.0M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Anhui Provincial Communications Department
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/04/2002     Effectiveness:                              04/05/2004
Appraisal:            02/20/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/24/2003     Mid-term Review:           09/16/2007       10/10/2007
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2009       06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Highly Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Roads and highways                                                    80                   80
Sub-national government administration                                20                   20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                17                   17
Other public sector governance                                        17                   17
Regional integration                                                  33                   33
Rural services and infrastructure                                     33                   33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun                 Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:            Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez             Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:       Mitsuyoshi Asada                     Yasuhiro Kawabata
ICR Team Leader:           Mitsuyoshi Asada
ICR Primary Author:        Hernan Levy


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project aims to support the social and economic development of Anhui Province
through the provision of an efficient, safe, and cost-effective highway infrastructure and
the improvement of transport links.

  To meet this development objective, the project will produce the following outputs:



                                               ii
  * transport capacity increased and market integration promoted in the low-income
southeast area of Anhui;
  * accessibility to low-income areas in the province improved;
  * safety of road transport improved; and
  * institutional capacity of the Anhui Provincial Communications Department (APCD)
and related sector institutions strengthened, through policy, institutional, and
organizational reform and provision of training, technical assistance, and equipment.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally      Actual Value
                                            Values (from          Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target      Completion or
                                             documents)           Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Time (minutes) spent on interprovincial trips along TTH corridor reduced
Value
quantitative or 230                      85                                  83
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/16/2003                 06/30/2009                          12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        The target was achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                Average Daily Traffic on existing S013 and G205 Roads (veh./day) reduced
Indicator 1 :
                (when TTH is finalized)
                                           Tongling-                           Tongling-
                Tongling-Quingyang:
                                           Quingyang: 5,500                    Quingyang: 5,855
                6800
                                           Quingyang -                         Quingyang -
                Quingyang - Yangmei:
                                           Yangmei: 5,500                      Yangmei: 5,328
Value           6,800
                                           Yangmei-Gantang:                    Yangmei-Gantang:
(quantitative   Yangmei-Gantang: 6,600
                                           5,400                               5,015
or Qualitative) Gantang-Tanjiaqiao:
                                           Gantang-                            Gantang-
                6,600
                                           Tanjiaqiao: 5,400                   Tanjiaqiao: 5,010
                Tanjiaqiao-Shancha:
                                           Tanjiaqiao-                         Tanjiaqiao-
                6,100
                                           Shancha: 6,700                      Shancha: 4,058
Date achieved 02/16/2003                   06/30/2009                          10/31/2009
Comments        Target was achieved, as traffic on four out of five roads was better (meaning
(incl. %        lower) than the target. The traffic overall was reduced more than expected,
achievement) therefore substantially lowered congestion on these roads.



                                               iii
                Average Daily Traffic on Rural Road Improvement Program roads (veh./day)
Indicator 2 :
                increased
                                            Shitai-
                                                                                 Shitai-Qiaotoudian:
                                            Qiaotoudian:
                                                                                 2,488
                                            2,400
                Shitai-Qiaotoudian: 1,900                                        Jingxian-Maolin:
                                            Jingxian-Maolin:
                Jingxian-Maolin: 1,700                                           2,432
Value                                       2,200
                Xianyuan-Xinmig-Sanxi:                                           Xianyuan-Xinmig-
(quantitative                               Xianyuan-Xinmig-
                1,900                                                            Sanxi: 2,225
or Qualitative)                             Sanxi: 2,400
                Hongmen-Jinde: 1,600                                             Hongmen-Jinde:
                                            Hongmen-Jinde:
                Xinqiao-Dabeifu: 1,700                                           2,130
                                            2,000
                                                                                 Xinqiao-Dabeifu:
                                            Xinqiao-Dabeifu:
                                                                                 2,195
                                            2,200
Date achieved 02/16/2003                    06/30/2009                           10/31/2009
Comments        Target was achieved. Four of the five roads had reached or surpassed the target
(incl. %        traffic. Overall, the average target traffic for the five roads was 2,240, while the
achievement) average actual traffic for the five roads was 2,294.
                Accident rates (times/km/year) on G206 (Hefei-Huainan) and on G205
Indicator 3 :
                (Maanshan-Nangling) reduced
Value
                G206: 1.80                  G206: 1.53                           G206: 0.55
(quantitative
                G205: 1.49                  G205: 1.26                           G205: 0.50
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/16/2003                    06/30/2009                           10/31/2009
Comments        Target was achieved. Accident rates fell substantially below the target. Road
(incl. %        safety improvements under the project were taken over by a larger, province-
achievement) wide safety program after the Bank project had commenced.
Indicator 4 : Number of poor population in towns along the corridor of the TTH
                                            Qinyang:
                                            20,186
                                            Shitai:
                Qinyang: 48,500                                                  Qinyang: 15,658
                                            24,886
                Shitai:      57,700                                              Shitai:      20,123
                                            Jingxian:
Value           Jingxian: 58,400                                                 Jingxian: 19,922
                                            25,551
(quantitative   Huangshan: 14,700                                                Huangshan: 5,155
                                            Huangshan:
or Qualitative) Jinde:       13,700                                              Jinde:       5,389
                                            7,158
                Ningguo: 26,000                                                  Ningguo: 7,764
                                            Jinde:        6,419
                Qimen:       18,500                                              Qimen:       7,054
                                            Ningguo:
                                            13,857
                                            Qimen:        9,883
Date achieved 02/16/2003                    06/30/2009                           07/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Targets were fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Average Daily Traffic on sections of TTH (veh./day)
                Tongling-Xiaxichong: 0 Tongling-                                 Tongling-
Value           Xiaxichong-Qingyang: 0 Qingyang: 7,900                           Qingyang: 4,864
(quantitative   Qingyang-Yangmei: 0         Qingyang-                            Qingyang-
or Qualitative) Yangmei-Gantang: 0          Lingyang-: 7,900                     Lingyang-: 4,108
                Gantang-Tanjiaqiao: 0 Lingyang-                                  Lingyang-


                                                 iv
               Tanjiaqiao-Shancha: 0       Taipinghu: 7,900                Taipinghu: 4,042
                                           Taipinghu-                      Taipinhu-
                                           Gantang: 7,700                  Gantang: 4,100
                                           Gantang-                        Gantang-
                                           Tanjiaqiao: 7,700               Tanjiaqiao: 4,526
                                           Tanjiaqiao-                     Tanjiaqiao-
                                           Tangkou: 6,800                  Tangkou: 4,379
Date achieved 02/16/2003                   06/30/2009                      10/31/2009
Comments
              While target was not achieved at the expected date, traffic growth trends show
(incl. %
              that traffic levels on the TTH are growing at a fast pace.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                         IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     07/17/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     11/10/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     06/16/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.50
  4     12/13/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   11.50
  5     04/21/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   29.36
  6     12/15/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   86.48
  7     06/22/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  109.09
  8     12/11/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  151.35
  9     12/26/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  217.49
 10     02/16/2008          Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory              229.46
 11     07/20/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  238.84
 12     01/24/2009          Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory              238.84


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
The project was prepared and appraised in the context of China's Tenth Five-Year Plan
(FYP: 2001-2005) and the 2002 Country Assistance Strategy. To achieve a sound market
economy by 2010, the following general objectives were specified in the Tenth FYP:
   ·   Stimulate demand to foster growth and narrow the income gap between urban and
       rural areas
   ·   Accelerate development of the Western Region
   ·   Redefine the role of the Government and restructure industries
   ·   Improve education, and
   ·   Balance development with ecological conservation and protection of the
       environment
The objectives of the Tenth FYP for the highway sector were primarily to support
economic growth and spread the benefits of growth to lower-income populations by
continuing to develop and improve the highway networks, mainly through capacity
increases in infrastructure, and by developing transport services using this infrastructure.
As regards highways and highway transport, the Plan focused on:
   ·   Continued construction of the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) in order
       to complete it by 2010
   ·   Improved transport to and within the Western Region
   ·   Improved accessibility to low-income populations in all regions of China
   ·   Development of logistics concepts and their implementation, particularly for
       container transport from major ports to the interior
   ·   Development of a market economy in the construction and operation and in the
       provision of transport services
   ·   Improved traffic safety
Construction of the NTHS had started in the 1980s as a response to historic
underinvestment in transport and in the road system, and to a major increase in road
transport demand following China's strong economic growth. The NTHS consisted of 12
interprovincial expressways spanning China and totaling some 35,000 kilometers.

Anhui's GDP per capita in 2000 was about 30 percent less than the Chinese national
average, and 64 percent less than neighboring coastal province Zhejiang. Anhui's
mountainous southern areas had lagged particularly far behind because of a lack of
transport infrastructure. At the same time, Anhui's share of interprovincial expressways
was low, hindering both inter- and intra-provincial long-distance traffic. The project, by
helping finance the construction of the Tongling-Tangkou Highway (TTH) and a road
improvement program in remote and low-income areas addressed the needs of long-
distance road transport along the north-south axis and of improving road access to poor
populations. At the same time, its institutional components focused on key road sector
issues.




                                             1
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategies since early 1980s consistently emphasized
supporting modernization and development of China's road network to help alleviate
infrastructure bottlenecks. The China Highway Sector Strategy Review, discussed with
the Chinese government in November 2001, provided the analytic underpinning for
highway projects that followed, including the present project. The Review identified the
following aspects as main challenges facing China's highway sector:
   ·   Improving accessibility to low income areas and western provinces
   ·   Supporting economic growth
   ·   Improving traffic safety
   ·   Improving management of the road sector

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The project aimed to support the social and economic development of Anhui Province
through the provision of an efficient, safe, and cost-effective highway infrastructure and
the improvement of transport links. To meet this development objective, the project
would produce the following outputs:
   ·   transport capacity increased and market integration promoted in the low-income
       southeast area of Anhui
   ·   accessibility to low-income areas in the province improved
   ·   safety of road transport improved; and
   ·   institutional capacity of the Anhui Provincial Communications Department
       (APCD) and related sector institutions strengthened, through policy, institutional,
       and organizational reform and provision of training, technical assistance, and
       equipment.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
The PDO and the Key Indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
The main beneficiaries were:
   ·   The road users of the Tongling-Tangkou corridors, that experienced a significant
       reduction in operating costs and travel time, through shorter trips, reduced traffic
       congestion and higher speeds, and an improvement in safety and comfort. The
       improved conditions applied not only to those using the new TTH expressways,
       but also to road users of the existing parallel roads, that benefited from less
       congestion and less traffic accidents.
   ·   The general public and commercial entities of the province helped by the
       improved conditions provided by the TTH, which facilitated tourism visiting the
       historical relics and natural scenic areas of Jiuhua Mountain and Huangshan.
   ·   Residents of low-income counties, especially those where rural roads under the
       project's road improvement program were located, which enjoyed improved
       access to markets, health facilities, schools and other social services.



                                            2
   ·   Anhui's highway agency, which benefited from the project's institutional
       components and training in a variety of areas, including planning, design,
       construction supervision, maintenance, and from the study and appropriate actions
       to reduce the damage caused to the province's road system by truck overloading.

1.5 Original Components
The project consisted of the following components:
Component 1: Highway Capacity Expansion (US$524.05 million)
(a)      Construction of the Tongling-Tangkou Highway (TTH) (US$496.46 million).
Construction of the 116 kilometer Tongling-Tangkou Highway was the project's main
component. The TTH is a segment of Beijing to Taipei Highway corridor. The TTH
traverses the low-income southeastern areas of Anhui and links with the major provincial
cities and eventually with coastal provinces. The alignment runs through the UNESCO-
recognized Huangshan and Jiuhuashan scenic sites and passes through the Taiping Lake,
a popular scenic lake in the province. In north, the TTH links with the Lujiang-Tongling
Expressway, which was under construction and was expected to be completed in 2005. In
the south, the TTH connects with the Anhui-Zhejiang border, through an expressway that
was scheduled for construction under the Eleventh Five-Year Plan, that started in 2006.
The TTH includes nine tunnels with a total length of 12,600 meters, six interchanges, five
toll stations, a maintenance and management center in Gantang, and three rest areas. The
TTH was designed to operate as a closed toll highway system.
(b)    Construction Supervision (US$8.13 million). A supervision team of both local
and international consultants, was to supervise the project in accordance with FIDIC
provisions.
(c)     Land Acquisition and Resettlement (US$20.35 million). The construction of the
TTH was expected to affect 2,611 families (9,963 persons), and require the acquisition of
about 9,365 mu (about 624 ha) of land and the relocation of 470 households. Land
acquisition and resettlement costs included the compensation to affected individuals and
the reconstruction of public facilities.
Component 2: Rural Road Improvement Program (RRIP) (US$69.13 million)
The RRIP program was designed to help people in poor counties increase their incomes
by improving access to markets, and have better access to employment opportunities and
social services and facilities. The RRIP intended to cover 243 kilometers, divided into
five separate road sections. The five road sections were located in the counties with a per
capita income of households of between RMB1,164 (about US$174) and RMB2,697
(about US$404) and , which was less than half the average in Anhui Province.
Component 3: Highway Safety (US$2.51 million)
This component consisted of the treatment of black segments and blackspots. A highway
accident study from the preceding project identified 42 black segments and 13 blackspots
on 3,253 kilometers of roads in Anhui as being the most accident-prone road sections in
the province. The following road sections were selected for targeting under the project:
(i) Hefei to Huainan section of G206 (114 kilometers) and (ii) Maanshan to Nanling



                                            3
section of G205 (88 kilometers). In addition to the physical improvements, the project
was to include training on road safety, to be part of the project's training program.
Component 4: Institutional Development and Road Sector Management (US$2.78
million)
(a)     Training Program (US$2.28 million). This program intended to continue a
training program launched under the previous project, to focus on aspects directly related
to the implementation of the various project components, and to take into account
organization reform and restructuring during the Tenth FYP. The training program was
expected to include overseas study tours, training courses abroad and domestic courses.
(b)     Study on Practices and Future Directions of Construction Supervision
(US$0.26 million). This study intended to review various aspects of the construction
supervision industry, including criteria for selection of supervision firms, composition of
supervision teams, responsibilities of supervision team members, relationships between
clients and contractors, and reporting procedures.
(c)     Study of Vehicle Overloading (US$0.24 million). This study intended to provide
APCD with a modern tool for managing road assets to address vehicle overloading, an
important and difficult issue in road asset management. The study was intended to
support the preparation and evaluation of a pilot program on control practices, with a
view to developing a comprehensive provincial policy and regulatory framework. The
study intended to select four locations with a high proportion of overloaded vehicles,
investigate the possibility of using mobile inspection stations, train staff, develop rules
and regulations and implement them, and monitor a pilot inspection program.
1.6 Revised Components
The road safety component consisting of the treatment of black segments and blackspots
was taken over by APCD under a larger province-wide program promoted by the central
government throughout the country to improve road safety. This province-wide program
was launched after the project had been approved. Unused funds were reallocated (1.7
below).
1.7 Other significant changes
Scope of Works. One climbing lane was added to the TTH during construction to
improve safety and traffic flow in a mountainous section of the expressway.
Disbursement Percentage. At government's request, the Loan Agreement was amended
in April 2007 (Bank letter of April 7, countersigned by the Ministry of Finance on April
10) to increase the disbursement percentage of Category 1 from 48 percent to 71 percent,
in order to enable the Borrower to fully utilize the Bank's loan and help the Anhui
government's fiscal position by reducing the level of required counterpart funds.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Preparation
Preparation of the project benefited from the broad experience of the Bank in highway
projects in China (26 such projects had been approved over a period of 17 years by the


                                            4
time of the present project was approved) and more specifically from the preceding
provincial highway project in Anhui (Anhui 1).
Lessons from previous projects were taken into account in four areas, of which two
relating to project design, discussed in the next section. The other two lessons were: (i)
avoiding delays in non-civil works parts of major highway, that is, electrical and
mechanical facilities, a problem experienced in previous China highway projects. For this
purpose, tendering for these activities was planned to start as soon as the civil works
commenced, (ii) making more realistic traffic forecasts by adopting more conservative
assumptions.
A strong Bank team was put together for the preparation of the project, which included
good coverage of all areas of the project, with a special attention to environment (three
specialists) and social/resettlement (two specialists). In addition, there were specialist
consultants for each of the two studies included in the project. Practically all the Bank
team involved since identification to appraisal had long experience working in highway
projects in China.
Preparation was also helped by strong commitments of the central and the Anhui
governments and their early actions to ensure smooth implementation. Notably, the
prefeasibility study and the financing plan for the TTH were approved by the State
Council in May 2003, which allowed launching the bids shortly after the project
approval.
Design
Project design was well thought out to ensure that the components would strongly
support the project objective. The TTH was a clear priority, both for China and for
Anhui, since it would complete a key north-south link, important for both inter- and intra-
provincial road transport. The RRIP component was carefully tailored to support social
and economic development.
Design of the institutional components was based on two pillars. The first was
preparation by the Bank of several sector reports in years preceding the project, including
a transport sector report in 1997/1998, a report by the former OED (currently IEG) on
China transport in 1998/1999, a review of technical assistance in China highway projects
(1998/1999) and a highway sector strategy review in 2001. The second pillar comprised
two lessons from previous projects that were incorporated into the design of the project:
(i) the need to enhance quality control of projects led to the inclusion in the project of a
study on the supervision practices and recommendations for their improvement, and, (ii)
the need to balance road improvement efforts between the construction of new, modern
highways and the improvement of existing roads, led to allocating a significant share of
investments under the project to the improvement of lower class roads.
Five design alternatives were analyzed and rejected as inferior to the proposed design: (i)
private, rather than public, financing of the TTH, for which Anhui province conducted a
brief financial assessment and concluded that the project would not be viable without a
government contribution of 30-40 percent of the investment cost, (ii) upgrading the main
existing road (PH103) rather than constructing a new four-lane highway (the TTH), but
this option would have created a dangerous mix of traffic modes, deteriorated traffic
safety at urban crossings, had higher environmental and resettlement impacts, and was


                                             5
difficult to build while keeping the road open to traffic, (iii) an alternative alignment to
the TTH, proved inferior on economic, technical and environmental considerations, (iv) a
design standard limited to 9-12 meter wide, similar to the PH103, would be less cost-
effective and also less safe, and (v) the RRIP composition was carefully selected
following a submission by the APCD of ten road sections totaling 450 kilometers.
Quality at Entry
There was no QAG assessment of Quality at Entry.
Risks
The PAD considered six risk factors, all rated as modest. Five of them were appropriately
mitigated and did not affect the project in any significantly way. These risks were
mitigated as follows: (i) sector organization, operation and management are not
improved, through an effective dialogue with the Anhui government during
implementation, (ii) training programs are not relevant, through ensuring proper training
subjects and trainees selected according to pre-established criteria, (iii) political
pressures interfere with implementation and affect construction quality, through
preparation of a realistic implementation program and assurances sought during
preparation that the implementation schedule would be followed, (iv) counterpart funding
not made available in a timely manner, through assurance sought during preparation that
counterpart funding remain a high priority, and (v) traffic safety audit is not
implemented, through ensuring that supervision missions focus on the implementation of
the traffic safety audit.
Traffic not growing as projected in the Tongling-Tangkou corridor, was the sixth risk
factor. During the project preparation, the project team did a critical review of traffic
studies by the Bank, and made a significant revision downward of the forecast prepared
by the APCD team. This was considered as a reasonable mitigation. It was not considered
possible to devise actions that would have a direct effect on the traffic. The traffic issue is
discussed in Sections 3.2 and 3.3.

2.2 Implementation
Project cost. The TTH final cost came out higher than expected, as shown in Annex 1.
However, this was mainly the result of the dollar depreciation vis-à-vis the RMB, with
some incidence from variation orders. At the bidding stage, the prices were lower than
expected, due to strong competition for civil works contracts, ranging between 4-6 bids,
depending on the package. The number of contractors that asked for bidding documents
ranged between 6-9, which means that about one third of them were eliminated during
the pre-qualification process.
Late Start. The State Council approved the feasibility study in May 2004, about a year
later after approving the prefeasibility report. This was due to the complex reviewing
procedures by China Engineering Consulting Co., MOC, and a proposal from the
National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) for co-signatures under various
departments as this was a foreign-aided project. This delayed the actual start of the
contracts. As a result, TTH construction started seven months later than initially
estimated.



                                              6
Completion of TTH. Construction of the TTH proceeded at a good pace. It opened to
traffic in September 2007. Construction took 39 months, three months less than originally
expected. Some of the ancillary facilities, such as parking area service facilities, are not
yet open to the public as the traffic volume is not yet sufficient for provision of intended
service facilities. With the recent updated traffic forecast, these facilities are planned to
be open to public in October 2010.
TTH design/construction standards and variation orders. Changes of design specifica-
tions during construction were relatively minor, and included increasing compaction
density of the base, and adding one climbing lane in a particularly steep gradient. Work
variation orders increased the TTH final price by 18.2 percent relative to the original bid
prices. These orders divided in the following categories: (i) price adjustments according
to the contractual price escalation formula, (ii) increase/decrease of quantities in the
original bill of quantities, and (iii) changes in additional works during construction, in
turn divided into (a) changed physical and geological conditions relative to the original
engineering surveys, (b) optimization of design, to make the TTH ecologically and
environmentally friendly, while the original design contained only `basic' environmental
design features, and (c) restoration and recovery of the existing roads and facilities
affected by the TTH.
APCD explained that variation orders in internationally-financed works, such as those
financed by the Bank, tend to be more than in domestically-financed works, because the
internationally-financed works generally take longer time for bidding process, so they
were allowed to use the preliminary engineering design rather than the final engineering
design for the bidding.
Cancellation of Contract. The contractor for Contract 13 of the TTH went bankrupt and
was unable to continue the work. This contract therefore was canceled. In order to
minimize the stoppage of work in the section, APCD took actions in two stages: in the
first one, it requested bids from three contractors working in neighboring sections of the
TTH for a small amount of work by variation orders. In the second, and while the first
phase was underway by the winning contractor, APCD proceed to call for full bidding for
the remaining, and largest, part of the work.
Safety issues. The original designs were weak regarding safety. Several issues arose, both
on the RRIP and the TTH, which required appropriate improvements to be made during
implementation. Such issues included inadequate or missing road signs during traffic
diversion/control, night warning lights, speed limits signs at village entrances, installation
of guardrails, separation of pedestrian and vehicle lanes on bridges. All of these issues
were eventually dealt with.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design
The project included a practical M&E framework, which covered the main outcome and
the outputs. The M&E was cost-effective, as it used existing statistical information
collected by APCD and other Anhui government agencies. Baselines values were
established.



                                              7
The M&E used a corridor approach when assessing the impact of the new TTH
expressway. It measured two variables on the TTH corridor: (i) the change in travel time
as a result of the TTH, where the TTH construction was expected to lead to a reduction in
travel time of two thirds compared with the situation prior to the TTH, and (ii) the
reduction in congestion, that would result from declining traffic on the existing roads
(S103 and G205) parallel to the TTH when the new highway opened, since a high
proportion of the traffic on these roads was expected to divert to the TTH.
For the RRIP program, the M&E framework included two dimensions: (i) traffic
increase, as a measure of the effect of the better roads on travel and on economic activity,
and (ii) the impact of the better roads on poverty, monitored by changes in household
incomes and in the number of poor population. The poverty-related indicators are
practical indicators of association, although there is no statistically-valid correlation
between the road improvement and the effects that were monitored. A QAG review of
supervision (QAG7), suggested that poverty reduction in similar socioeconomic areas
would have been a better counterfactual, and could have been included as an additional
indicator.
To assess the effect of the treatment of blackspots on highway safety, the M&E
monitored the number of accident causing fatalities and serious injuries along two roads
(G205 and G206).
The M&E framework also included project implementation indicators that covered both
the physical and the institutional components.
In hindsight, the M&E could have been stronger regarding the institutional components,
particularly since the two studies included in the project intended to provide actionable
recommendations, and the progress and impact of training could have also been
monitored. Progress in these areas was regularly reported by the Bank supervision
missions even though no formal performance indicators existed.
Implementation and Utilization
The M&E framework was implemented correctly, with values reported by the APCD to
the Banks' supervision missions. One special feature of the implementation was that
values, such as traffic and accidents, rather than being point values for a particular day or
month, were average values of the designated period. This approach had the advantage of
reducing the distortions caused by seasonal variations. The M&E used standard statistics
of APCD and of the province, and was regularly utilized by the highway agency for its
own planning and monitoring purposes.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard compliance is rated satisfactory, as described below.
Environment
The project was considered Category A for environmental purposes due to the scale of
potential environmental and social impact and sensitivity of the project areas. The Anhui
Transportation Investment Cooperation Co., Ltd., the entity under Anhui Provincial
Communication Department (APCD) in charge of the construction of the TTH, set up an
environmental management and supervision system for both construction and operation


                                             8
stages. The system included dedicated environmental protection unit and staffing,
dedicated environmental performance contract with the Contractors, environmental
supervision and monitoring, reporting, training, implementation of mitigation measures,
including those conducted during construction, and rehabilitation and greening upon
completion of the construction. The TTH operation company is now responsible for the
environmental protection of TTH during the operation stage. The overall implementation
of Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was satisfactory:
   ·     The EMP was implemented satisfactorily and the environmental impacts were
         properly mitigated. Landscape and aesthetics were adequately considered;
         excavation was minimized to the extent possible; ecological slope protection such
         as vegetation was prevalent along the alignment; borrow pits and disposal sites
         were all rehabilitated or restored upon completion; animal passages, as designed,
         were built; there is no evidence that disturbance to fauna and flora was
         significant; wastewater was properly collected and treated before discharge; noise
         reduction measures, such as sound barriers, were implemented according to the
         Environ-mental Impact Assessment (EIA); dust control measures such as
         watering and covering were adopted; special measures including emergency
         response plan regarding major bridges over the Taiping Lake were prepared;
         bridge runoffs were collected to avoid direct discharge into the highly sensitive
         water body.
   ·     Regular environmental training was conducted during construction. The
         contractors, supervision engineers and other relevant staff were required to join
         the environmental management training, delivered jointly by the project EIA
         consultant, Anhui Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau, and the Ministry
         of Communications.
   ·     Supervision, monitoring and reporting was satisfactory. A monthly environmental
         supervision report was prepared during construction. The Anhui Provincial
         Environmental Monitoring Station conducted regular environmental monitoring
         during construction and until one year after project completion. The monitoring
         report indicated that good environmental practices carried out and environmental
         impacts well managed.
Since the TTH opened to traffic, continuous monitoring has been carried out for the
environmental indicators such as noise and water quality along the expressway. The
project completion acceptance inspection is being conducted in accordance with the
Chinese law. The final draft, to be issued in December 2009, has concluded that
environmental protection measures were well conducted.

Social
TTH. Construction of the TTH required land acquisition and resettlement, and this
triggered OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement. A full Resettlement Action Plan was
prepared and appraised by the Bank. Implementation of the RAP was started in 2003 and
completed in 2008.
The project required acquisition of land, relocation of houses and tombs. The project also
affected some infrastructure, such as roads, power and communications lines. As shown


                                             9
in the table, land acquisition and practically all related items exceeded the original
estimates, and so was the amount of compensation paid. The main reason was the
insufficient accuracy of the feasibility study, particularly in the mountainous areas, for
estimating the area affected by the expressway. A major interchange near a city needed to
be redesigned to take account of the city's own master plan, which was another factor
explaining why the original estimates were exceeded.
                      Table 2.1 Land acquisition and resettlement
                                                                              Actual/RAP
                                                   RAP           Actual
                                                                              (% increase)
  Land acquisition (thousand mu)                   9,365         11,464           22%
  Land required during construction
                                                   2,525          2,802           11%
  (thousand mu)
  People affected                                  9,963         14,404           44%
  Households affected, total                       3,081          3,601           19%
  Households needing relocation                      470            611           42%
  Land and Resettlement Costs (RMB million)          168            223           24%

Of the 611 households that needed relocation, 466 households chose concentrated
relocation at 43 new sites, and the other 145 households preferred scattered relocation
within their original villages. Among families relocated were 63 vulnerable households
that received extra assistance during the relocation process.
Compensation and relocation were carried out in accordance with agreement reached
with each affected household. All the affected households have restored their houses with
proper public facilities in their villages. In addition to full house/structure compensation,
the affected households received a transition fee and a moving allowance.
An income restoration investigation covering 293 households showed that the average
income per household increased from RMB14,841 (about US$2,226) in 2003 to
RMB16,180 (about US$2,427) after relocation. The livelihood restoration was mainly
financed by the land compensation and complemented by additional assistance from the
PEO.
A survey of 241 affected households (out of the total of 3,601) showed that 98 percent
were satisfied with the compensation received.

RRIP. It was originally expected that the RRIP would not require land acquisition and
resettlement. However, improvement of three roads (S323, S325 and Xinming-Xianyuan)
eventually required a small amount of land acquisition, 95 mu (about 6.3 ha) in total, as a
result of straightening of some curves made to improve the safety. Those losing lands
were compensated with land in the same area of equivalent size and quality, and affected
people expressed satisfaction with the resettlement measures. This small amount of land
acquisition and resettlement were implemented in conformity with the requirements in
the Resettlement Plan of the main project components.

Resettlement Management and Monitoring. APCD's Project Execution Office (PEO)
was responsible for resettlement implementation for all project components, and carried


                                              10
out supervision of TTH resettlement. The Anhui Provincial Highway Administration
Bureau (APHAB) implemented the resettlement of the RRIP. Anhui Communications
Technical College (ACTC) carried out independent monitoring of the resettlement. The
monitoring started in October 2003 and completed in 2008. ACTC conducted regular
monitoring and provided seven monitoring reports. In addition, it assisted the PEO
training staff in the field on resettlement implementation. Evaluation provided by the
resettlement monitoring, as well as the regular site visits by the Bank missions confirmed
that the project resettlement implementation was satisfactory.

Fiduciary
Fiduciary compliance is rated satisfactory, as described below.
Financial Management. The overall financial management compliance was satisfactory.
The financial management system during implementation had no significant changes
from appraisal. The project financial management system, including accounting,
budgeting, internal control, funds flow, financial reporting and auditing, was acceptable
to the Bank. Audit compliance was satisfactory, since APCD submitted annual audit
reports to the Bank in a timely manner. All the audit reports were reviewed by the Bank
and considered acceptable. No significant internal control issues or weaknesses were
identified by the auditors. APCD demonstrated its capacity to carry on loan disbursement
in line with the construction progress.
Procurement. Project procurement was carried out in accordance with the Bank's
procurement policies and procedures, and no major issue was encountered during
implementation. The project included 18 ICB civil works contracts for TTH. Other
works, including buildings, RRIP, and weighing stations were procured under NCB,
following procedures acceptable to the Bank. The highway safety program, that was also
intended to be procured under NCB, was taken over under a larger Anhui safety program,
and was therefore not procured under the project. All TTH contracts were subject to
prior review, as were most of the other works contracts (those with contract cost of US$5
million or more). The CMC International Tendering Company (ITC-CMC), a company
with extensive experience in Bank-financed projects, both ICB and NCB, acted as the
procurement agent.
A post review of procurement documents showed that APCD, while generally complying
with Bank requirements, may have adopted overly restrictive practices in the bids for the
RRIP program, which had the potential for leading to higher prices than could have been
without such practices. Such practices included limiting the number of contracts one
contractor may apply for pre-qualification and increasing the size of the performance
security when the lowest bid is over 15 percent lower than the average value of the other
bids. Under APCD procurement design procedures, RRIP contracts were limited to a
maximum of 20 kilometers per contract, a scale possibly less than optimal.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Upon opening of the TTH in September 2007, the overall management of the TTH was
entrusted to the Anhui Provincial Communications Investment Group (APCI), to which
the road assets were transferred upon completion of the works. APCI is a 100 percent
state-owned company directly under the jurisdiction of Anhui Provincial Government,


                                           11
supported with technical guidance from APCD. In early 2009, the organization of APCD
expressways was reorganized, but it did not affect TTH, which remains under APCI.
The overall framework for the operation and management of the TTH consists of four
interconnected systems: (a) operational system, the responsibility of the Qingyang
Expressway Administration Company Ltd. (QEAC), (b) traffic security system, under
police responsibility, (c) system for safeguarding road assets, under a special unit of the
APCD, and, (d) emergency system, that consists of a series of procedures and involves
the local governments, health facilities, fire stations, traffic police, the APCI and the
APCD. While toll levels are below the original estimates, APCI reports that current toll
revenue provides sufficient resource to properly fund TTH operations and maintenance.
The RRIP operations and maintenance are the responsibility of the respective county
authorities. Under the follow up road project (Anhui 3), maintenance management is
being improved with the application of the Chinese Pavement Management System
(CPMS), for which Anhui 3 includes specific training programs. Data collection
necessary to apply the CPMS to the whole of Anhui's national and provincial network is
expected to be completed by the end of 2009.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The construction of a modern inter-provincial highway system continues to be a high
priority for the central government's development strategy. Improvement of the road
infrastructure especially in the poor counties and selectively tackling road management
issues is a priority at the provincial level.
The project objective was consistent with the CAS (dated November 21, 2002) prevailing
at the time of the project, which identified transport infrastructure as a key area for Bank
support. The objective remains consistent with the latest Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) FY06-10, notably with three of its five strategic pillars:
   ·   Integrating China into the World Economy
           o The TTH especially, and to some extent the RRIP, will make a major
              contribution to reducing trade and investment barriers, by reducing
              transport costs and facilitating access to products and markets
   ·   Reducing Poverty, Inequality and Social Exclusion
          o The roads improved under the RRIP, are located in poor counties with
             average household income half of Anhui and will expand economic
             opportunities for the rural poor as well as access to basic social and
             infrastructure services
   ·   Managing Resource Scarcity and Environmental Challenges
         o The project contributed to this Pillar through the application of strict
             environmental and resettlement standards, through improvements in traffic
             safety, and through a more efficient road management addressed via
             reducing overloading damages to road infrastructure and better quality of
             construction supervision


                                            12
Project design was appropriate with well selected components, as described below.
       On the physical side:
       · the TTH was a clear priority both at the national and the provincial levels
       · the five rural areas under the RRIP were identified and included in the project
          following a strict selection criteria
       · targeted interventions were designed to improve road safety.
       On the institutional side:
       · controlling vehicle overloading was a priority in view of the road damages caused
          by overloaded vehicles, which was estimated to cost the Chinese economy (in
          2005) over US$3.5 billion annually1
       · improving construction supervision was an effective way to help improve quality
          of construction.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The project development objective was achieved. The project components were well
tailored to achieve the objective. They were completed and produced the outcomes that
were expected for the project to meet its development objective. All but one of the
performance indicators were met or surpassed.
a. Support social and economic development (refer to I/O Indicator 2 & 4 in Data
   Sheet)
The project did support social and economic development, by improving the road
network, both long distance and local roads in poor areas, making road transport safer,
and by helping improve the management of the road sector. Achievements in the
provision of efficient infrastructure, better safety and a more cost-effective road
management are discussed under b) through d), below.
The five RRIP roads, significantly improved the accessibility of low-income areas,
especially in 3 of the 5 RRIP roads, therefore supporting social development. These three
roads were originally Class IV, which are generally graveled, and therefore often subject
to closures depending on weather conditions, but were paved under the project. The RRIP
roads supported a multisectoral poverty reduction strategy in the province and the project
areas. In the towns in the project-affected areas, the number of poor people dropped by
about two thirds from 2002 to 2008. The drop was greater than estimated at appraisal,
and greater than the 50 percent drop in the number of poor people in Anhui province.
b. Provision of an efficient infrastructure
   (refer to PDO Indicator 1 and I/O Indicator 1 & 5 in Data Sheet)
The TTH's four-lane, modern expressway design provided, since its opening in 2007, an
efficient infrastructure that significantly increased transport capacity. This new facility
was essential in the TTH corridor, where congestion on the existing roads meant that the
travel time between Tongling and Tangkou was high, 230 minutes. Travel time on the
TTH corridor, measured on the existing roads, continued to increase during the

1
    World Bank, 2007. China's Expressways: Connecting People and Markets for Equitable Development. EASTE Working Paper #13.




                                                              13
construction period of the TTH, and had reached 284 minutes by 2006. By the end of
2008, the travel time on the newly open TTH expressway between Tongling and Tangkou
had been cut to 83 minutes.
The construction of the TTH, by diverting traffic from the existing S103/G205 also meant
that the congestion on those roads was highly reduced. Before the TTH opened, traffic
had continued to increase on these roads, and by 2007 it was substantially higher than in
2002, by up to 30 percent in the Tongling-Quingyang section. By October 2009,
however, traffic on four of the five sections monitored had decreased to below the PAD
target, significantly lowering congestion on the roads.
Traffic on the TTH has so far been lower than expected. The shortfall is attributed to the
delay in the completion of the connecting expressways in Fujian and Zhejiang, which
would allow a higher proportion of long-distance, inter-provincial traffic between the
northeast and the southeast of China to travel over the TTH. Completion of these
expressways is expected, depending on the section, between 2010 and 2012. Yet, the
latest available monthly figures show that the traffic on the TTH has been growing at a
fast rate. In 2009, average daily traffic on the six control stations had reached 4,379
veh/day, which was 39 percent higher than in 2008. The traffic growth between March
2008 and March 2009 shows 55% increase on average of the road sections.
c. Safety of road transport improved. (refer to I/O Indicator 3 in Data Sheet)
The improvement of safety was expected to result from the project-financed treatment of
blackspots and black segments along two highway sections: Hefei-Huanan section of
G206 (114 km) and Maanshan-Nangling section of G205 (88 km). This part of the
project was designed and actually started under the project, but was subsequently taken
over by Anhui government under a province-wide, road safety improvement program.
The provincial program cost Y380 million, financed two thirds by Anhui and one third by
MOC, and was carried out between 2004 and 2006. It eliminated 7,000 blackspots over
the province's 2,600 kilometers of national and provincial roads. Accidents/fatalities on
these roads dropped from 8,420/2,803 in 2005 to 6,221/2,232, in 2008, a reduction of 36
percent in the number of accidents and 20 percent in the number of fatalities. While most
of the improvement in safety was the result of the blackspot program, the opening of the
TTH and the consequent reduction in congestion on S103, G205, and other local roads
where traffic diverted to the safer-driving expressway, was also a contributing factor.
Accidents in the two roads selected under the project (G205 and G206) increased until
2005, and rapidly decreased as the Provincial safety treatment program was carried out.
By 2008, one of the two roads had met the target, the other had slightly under-achieved it.
Preliminary 2009 data suggests that there was substantially further reduction of accidents
in both roads, and that both have a better accident rate than the original target.
In addition to the engineering improvements of G205 and G206, there have been
improvements in the coordination between APCD and the traffic police, which
supervision missions repeatedly emphasized the need to improve.
d. A more cost-effective management of the road system was achieved
The institutional development program has achieved what was expected, through a well
designed and executed training program, and two important studies. Both the training and


                                            14
the studies started at the beginning of project implementation, allowing the completion of
the programs on time and, in the case of the studies, putting into practice actions
recommended by the studies.
Training
The training program was carried out as expected, with the actual number of person-
months exceeding the PAD estimate for training in China (887 p-m versus 848 p-m) and
for study tours (32 p-m versus 14 p-m). A relatively minor under-achievement relative to
the PAD occurred for training abroad (74 p-m versus 93 in the PAD). Actual training in
all modes was four percent higher than the PAD estimate.
      Table 3.1 Training Program: Actual vs. PAD estimate (in person-months)
                                                                 Achievement of
                                     Actual        PAD Target
                                                                  Targets (%)
               Training in China      887             848             105
               Training abroad         74              93              80
               Study tours             32              14             229
               Total                  993             955             104
The training covered highway planning, construction supervision, project management,
traffic safety, highway and bridge design, highway operations, financial management,
environmental protection and monitoring, highway finance and other related areas.
APCD reported that some 20 percent of the 155 technical and managerial staff that
attended domestic or foreign training was subsequently promoted.
Construction Supervision Study. This was the first study in China on construction
supervision. Thus, the conclusions and recommendations of this study are of interest for
Anhui as well as other provinces, since construction supervision issues are fairly similar
across the provinces. The study produced an action plan that identified five areas for
action which are being implemented.
               Table 3.2 Construction Supervision: Issues and Strategies
              Issue                                   Strategies and Measures
1. Supervision engineers not well    - Training
   qualified                         - Increase pay to attract better qualified professionals
2. Excessive mobility and transfer   - Better bidding procedures and control to avoid recruiting
   of personnel                        personnel with multiple assignments
                                     - Reject personnel with little operational experience and
                                       prevent those rejected from re-applying
3. Inadequate site management        - Examination of site engineers
                                     - Establish performance reward criteria
4. Lack of standardization of        - Refine and standardize the index-based evaluation criteria
   supervision bidding process       - Give higher weight to technical qualifications
                                     - Make bid evaluations more transparent
5. Unclear responsibilities of       - Standardize supervision reporting
   supervision staff                 - Clarify duties and responsibilities of supervision
                                       engineers
Source: APCD



                                              15
Vehicle Overloading Study
The Anhui overloading study provided the most recent information on overloading in
China. The study results were quoted in the 2007 Bank paper on China's expressways.2
The study found substantial truck overloading on Anhui's expressways, the percentage of
overloaded trucks ranging from 60 percent for 2-axle trucks to 91 percent for truck-
trailers. Average overloading as a percentage of registered tonnage was found to range
from 145 percent for 2-axle trucks to 258 percent for truck-trailers.

The study produced recommendations in six areas, and actions are being taken as
follows:
       ·     Tolls on major highways are charged in relation to the weight of heavy vehicles as
             measured in the toll stations. So far, however, it is unclear whether this toll policy
             is helping deter truck overloading.
       ·     Installation of 32 axle weight stations across the province is on target for being
             completed by 2010.
       ·     Procurement of vehicles for overloading monitoring data and data collection has
             been completed and data is collected on a continuous basis.
       ·     A company has been hired to develop a model to analyze the collected data.
       ·     APCD is coordinating with the police and with neighboring provinces for the
             operation of axle weight control stations at the border with Jiangsu and Zhejiang
             provinces.
       ·     Training in overloading has been completed under Anhui 2, and further training is
             included under the ongoing Anhui 3.

3.3 Efficiency
Efficiency in achieving the project development objectives is rated satisfactory. The
combined economic rate of return (ERR) for the investments on TTH and the RRIP is
estimated at 14.7 %, on a weighted-average basis. This return is satisfactory, although
lower than the appraisal estimate of 20.8 %, as explained below.

-TTH
The ERR at completion has been estimated following a similar methodology as at
appraisal, but using actual values of the costs and the benefits. The TTH investment cost,
in current RMB, turned out to be some 15 percent lower than the cost estimated at
appraisal. On the other hand, the traffic has developed slower than anticipated in the
actual values compared to the appraisal values, ranging from 40 to54 percent in 2008, and
55 to 77 percent projected in 2010, resulting in lower-than-expected vehicle operating
cost savings. As a result, the re-estimated ERR for the TTH expressway is 14.0 %. By
section of the TTH, the rates of return are follows:



2
    World Bank, 2007. See footnote 1.




                                                  16
                     Table 3.3 Economic Rate of Return for TTH
                    Section              Appraisal ERR (%)      Actual ERR (%)
          Tongling-Yangmeicun                   24.3                 13.5
          Yangmeicun-Tonjiaqiao                 20.5                 14.1
          Tongjiaqiao-Tongkou                   20.7                 14.0
                    Average                     20.7                 14.0

-RRIP
The construction costs of the RRIP roads were on average 27 % lower than the appraisal
estimates, while the traffic volumes were slightly higher. As a result, the ERR for the
RRIP program was 26.5 %, which is substantially higher than 21.4 % estimated at
appraisal.
Financial Return
The PAD estimates the financial return of the TTH at 1.3 %. At completion, the TTH
financial return is in the same order of magnitude. However, as noted in the PAD, the
financial return of the TTH has to be seen in the wider context of the Hefei-Tangkou
corridor, of which the TTH is a part. The TTH, by attracting long-distance travelers, will
increase the financial return of the other expressway sections along the Hefei-Tangkou
corridor.
All rural roads under the RRIP program are toll free, and therefore a financial return is
not applicable.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory.
This is a highly relevant project carried out efficiently and achieved a high degree of
completion of all components, essential to meet the project development objectives. The
only factor precluding rating this project higher is the slow build up of the traffic on the
TTH, which has been below the expectations. This has resulted in efficiency not being as
high as estimated at appraisal, but still satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The RRIP program is likely to be a contributing factor in the significant reduction in the
number of the poor people in the counties served by the program (see Data Sheet). The
reduction was substantial relative to the baseline of year 2002 and the PAD estimate for
2008. In the six control points selected relating to the project roads, the number of poor
people declined from 237,500 in 2002 to 81,065, or a fall of two thirds in the number of
the poor. In parallel with the reduction in the number of the poor people, household
incomes improved dramatically, more than doubled between 2002 and 2009. While
probably the significant improvements in poverty and incomes were the result of Anhui's
anti-poverty program, the improved accessibility to services and markets provided by the
RRIP program was an important contributing component of that program. By


                                            17
comparison, the total number of poor people in Anhui province fell by about 50 percent
during the project, that is, less than the drop experienced in the counties served by RRIP
roads.
        Table 3.3 Household incomes in project areas, 2002 and 2009 (RMB).
                                   2002             2009            2008
                  County
                                  baseline          actual       PAD estimate
                 Qinyang           2,194            5,089           3,000
                   Shitai          1,152            2,765           1,600
                 Jingxian          2,384            4,470           3,200
                Huangshan          1,510            3,568           2,100
                   Jinde           2,436            4,761           3,300
                 Ningguo           2,506            6,078           3,400
                  Qimen            2,042            4,035           2,800
                 Average           2,032            4,395           2,771
             Source: APCD


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The institutional strengthening program had well selected activities that complemented
the efforts under the previous projects. The training program was well executed, covered
a large number of professionals and topics. APCD found that the main impact of the
training was the learning of the latest techniques in highway design, construction,
operations and maintenance.
The two studies, construction supervision and vehicle overloading, produced useful
recommendations that are being implemented. The construction supervision study
produced two important documents that are being used by APCD, a construction
supervision manual, and a quality control manual for expressways. The vehicle
overloading study provided the most recent information on vehicle overloading in China,
and resulted in testing of a toll rate policy which relates the toll rate to the total vehicle
weight.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The environmental improvements made on the TTH during implementation, relative to
the original design, converted it in a model `green expressway'. The APCD is preparing
documents to submit the TTH to the Ministry of Environmental Protection as a candidate
for MEP's environmental award.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate.
Current information suggests that the TTH will generate enough revenues to finance an
adequate level of maintenance and expressway operations. However, the slower than
anticipated development of traffic, and therefore revenues on the TTH, and issues with
maintenance of local roads in Anhui as well as in other provinces, suggest that the risk is
small, but not negligible. On the institutional side, the improvements resulting from the



                                             18
project's institutional activities are being implemented, and are unlikely to be reversed.
On balance, the risk to development outcome is rated as moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank designed the project with a relevant objective and well selected physical and
institutional components. The construction supervision study was innovative, and the
study on overloading produced the most recent information on the topic in China. The
PAD included an M&E that was simple and cost-effective while covering all key
outcomes of the project.
One weakness was the traffic forecast of the TTH, which proved overly optimistic. This,
despite the fact that, in view of lessons from previous highway projects, the PAD adopted
for the TTH a traffic forecast that drastically lowered the figures presented in the
feasibility study.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
A QAG Supervision Assessment (QSA7, September 11, 2006) rated project supervision
as satisfactory. It rated candor and quality of the supervision reports as satisfactory and
the extent to which ratings for development objectives and implementation performance
reflect actual conditions as highly satisfactory.
The Bank responded quickly to APCD's requests. This is exemplified in the submission
of the bid evaluation report for the 18 contracts under the TTH by APCD to the Bank on
April 20, 2004, for which the Bank provided no objection nine days later.
The supervision team was strong with highly experienced staff, and there was little
change in composition of the supervision team over the project implementation. The
missions were carried out regularly twice a year. The mission reports were clear and
detailed, and included reasonable recommendations. In some cases, the Aide-Memoires
included photographs that were effective to show good practices as well areas of the TTH
and RRIP roads that required remedial actions. The supervision missions placed special
emphasis on road safety. This included, beyond the physical infrastructure, the need for
better coordination between the police and APCD/TTH in order to ensure that the police
obtain real time information on accidents and are able to take timely action.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory. The Bank prepared a relevant and well conceived project, and
supervised it effectively.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance



                                            19
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The Anhui government fully supported the project, from preparation through
implementation. It provided adequate counterpart funding to ensure that the project
would be completed in time, the physical as well as the institutional components. The
provincial government also fully supported the training program, and allowed it to
proceed as originally intended, especially the foreign training activities, that are not
always supported in highway projects in other provinces.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The implementing agency was highly effective, as it managed the project well,
completing the expressway and all project components substantially before the loan
closing date. APCD benefited from the experience in the previous provincial highway
project with the Bank, and was able to provide continuity of its key team members for the
two closed projects (Anhui 1 and Anhui 2), and the ongoing Anhui 3. No critical issue
arose during implementation.
APCD started implementing all project components soon after project approval in spite of
the delay in loan effectiveness, allowing early completion of all the activities, and
implemented recommendations proposed by the two studies. APCD dealt rapidly and
effectively with the problems posed by the cancelation of a TTH construction contract,
solving the problem fast and preventing it from delaying the completion of the entire
expressway.
The small international supervision team proved highly effective support, largely because
of the good quality of its personnel, the good quality of the domestic team's personnel,
and an effective coordination between the two teams.
APCD prepared timely and high quality quarterly reports through the project
implementation period, which provided detailed information, and allowed a close
monitoring of the project. If there was slight weakness in the reporting, this was a biased
focus on the TTH with less information on the other components.
APCD devoted appropriate attention to ensuring that safeguards were properly complied
with, as it occurred. Some APCD procurement practices may be overly restrictive,
(Section 2.4 and Lessons), and APCD may wish to consider improvements in future.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
A strong government support throughout the project and a very effective implementing
agency carried out the whole project, both the physical and the institutional components
fast and with high quality outputs.

6. Lessons Learned
6.1 Preparation Aspect
6.1.1 There is a need for improving traffic forecasting and related economic analysis
for expressways. As China's road network increases in complexity and provides a range


                                            20
of alternative routes for travelling between two points, traffic forecast also becomes
increasingly complex and subject to a higher degree of uncertainty than in the past. The
forecast is especially difficult in the case of expressways whose main traffic is likely to
be long-distance, since this requires a broader network analysis and is further
complicated by competing expressways whose expected completion time is normally not
known at the time of project appraisal. In view of the high cost of expressways, a better
coordination, ideally with leadership from MOC, among provinces planning to construct
potentially competing routes, could be useful to ensure that expressways design and
timing is as economically optimal as possible.
6.1.2 There is a need for improving the assessment of resettlement requirements.
Land acquisition and resettlement of people turned out to be substantially greater than
expected in the Resettlement Action Plan. People affected and households needing
relocation ended up being 42 and 44 higher than initially estimated. While a part of the
increase was due to an interchange redesign during implementation, most changes were
due to insufficient accuracy in the initial studies. More appropriate level of feasibility
studies, especially in mountainous areas, would allow a better planning of resettlement
and a better estimate of funding needs.
6.1.3 A way to better assessing the poverty impact of local road improvements can be
sought. Rural road components in China highway project often use the change in GDP,
before and after the rural road improvements in the areas where the roads are located, as
an indicator of the impact of such investments. A more appropriate way to assess the
impact of such improvement would involve measuring the reduction of poverty in similar
socioeconomic areas as a counterfactual, instead of, or in addition to, comparing poverty
levels before and after the improvements. Still, the projects need to find a proper balance
in the selection of indicators between simplicity on the one hand, and capacity to reflect
the effect of interventions on outcomes on the other.
6.1.4 It is better to avoid too restrictive procurement practices. APCD's internal
procurement design and practices, while generally complying with the Bank procedures,
appear to be overly restrictive. This may, in some cases, prevent from getting optimal low
bid prices. Examples of restrictions found in post-review cases include short length of
roads put in a bid package, limits on number of contracts one applicant may be pre-
qualified irrespective of its technical and financial capacity, and requiring that lowest
bidder to post a higher performance security than normally required, if its price is
substantially lower than average of the other bidders. APCD would be advised to improve
these practices.
6.2 Design and Implementation Aspect
6.2.1 `Greening expressways' as in the TTH was a great initiative. The experience
with the TTH shows that the `greening' initiative for the expressway brings about
considerable environmental benefits, especially with the fact that it traverses scenic areas
such as Huangshan, Jiuhuashan and the Taiping Lake. The beautification of the TTH was
achieved with simple measures, such as minimizing the amount of excavation, protecting
slopes with vegetation, rehabilitating or restoring disposal sites, collecting and treating
wastewater before discharge. These measures did not significantly increase the
investment cost, but required careful attention during the construction, since most of them


                                            21
were not specified in the design drawings. The lesson is two-fold: on the one hand the
benefits of `greening' an expressway especially when it traverses scenic areas, and on the
other, the need to clearly mark such measures in the engineering documents, to ensure
that construction planning is adequately informed.
6.2.2 Improving road safety needs continuous efforts. Many safety improvements
were identified and implemented during the construction of the expressway and the rural
roads. Effective road safety improvements during implementation appears to be learned
from the two main factors: (i) there are normally not sufficient details provided in the
engineering drawings, and (ii) decent technical knowledge is still required to ensure that
road can achieve the maximum safety despite the recent major progress in the
understanding of road safety issues among professional staff. This lesson suggests that
the engineering documents should be modified to ensure that all safety measures are
clearly described and listed in such documents, and that continuous training is required
on road safety design.
6.3 On Studies
The studies under the project (see Section 3.2.d.) provide two useful lessons:
6.3.1 Tackling truck overloading needs further innovation. Overloading is a major
issue in China and throughout Bank borrowers in other regions as well. Initial results
show that the introduction of higher toll rates for weighted truck in Anhui did not
necessarily produce a clear impact on deterring the overweight. If such results are
confirmed, APCD should either revise the policy, or refine it, for example, by applying
an even higher toll rates with vehicle weight, or by linking toll rates to the difference
between the truck load capacity and actual load. Either alternative might be more
effective in deterring truck overloading, although differential toll rates are not commonly
used in other countries as a method to control overloading and can only be used in
manually-operated toll booths.
6.3.2 There are measures to strengthen construction supervision. The construction
supervision study highlighted the need to standardize supervising the bidding, strengthen
field works with qualified personnel, conduct integrity reviews and blacklist poorly
assessed engineers, increase the importance of the technical aspects in bid evaluation,
standardize the supervision organization and continuously train the highway agency staff.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Owing to the updated national trunk expressway network in China, "The TTH is a
segment of the Tianjin-Shanwei Highway originating in Tianjin in the north and
terminating in Shanwei, Fujian, in the south" ( Clause 1.5) and "Tianjing to Shanwei " in
Annex 7 (D. Project implementation) should be replaced with "TTH is a segment of
Beijing to Taipei Corridor".
(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable
(c) Other partners and stakeholders


                                            22
Not Applicable




                 23
                           Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
                                                              Actual/Latest
                                       Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
            Components                                          Estimate
                                         (USD million)                            Appraisal
                                                              (USD million)
 1. Works
  a) TTH                                      434.67               530.67           122.1%
  b) RRIP                                      60.53                52.15           86.2%
  c) Black spot improvement                     2.20                 1.12           50.9%
  d) Weighing Station                           0.39                 3.14           805.1%
                Subtotal                      497.79               587.08          117.0%

2. Supervision of Construction                  7.81                10.30          131.9%
3. Equipment                                    7.34                 0                 -
4. Training                                     2.19                 2.16           98.6%
5. Studies                                      0.48                 0.43           89.6%
         Total Baseline Cost                  515.61               599.97          116.4%
6. Contingencies                               71.49                 -
7. Land acquisition and resettlement           20.35                32.00          157.3%
         Total Project Cost                   607.45               631.97          104.0%


(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                                         Type of                                   Percentage of
         Source of Funds                                 Estimate      Estimate
                                       Cofinancing                                  Appraisal
                                                       (USD million) (USD million)
Borrower                                                  381.83        438.10        114.7%
International Bank for
                                                          250.00        250.00        100.0%
Reconstruction and Development




                                                24
                                   Annex 2. Outputs by Component

 Outputs by component are summarized in the table below
               Component                         Output                            Comment
                                          Physical Investment
1.   Highway Capacity Expansion:
     Construction of Tongling-Tangkou
     (TTH) Expressway
     a) Civil works                       116 kilometers, 4 lanes,   A climbing lane was added in an
                                             access-controlled       especially steep section of the TTH. A
                                          expressway (including      number of measures to `green' the
                                         maintenance/management      TTH where taken during construction.
                                           center and rest areas)
     b) Facilities                       Electrical and mechanical   Equipment provided as required to
                                                 equipment           allow operation of TTH as a closed toll
                                                                     system, with modern traffic and safety
                                                                     control facilities


2.   Rural Road Improvement Program               234 km             In five road sections, program carried
     (RRIP)                                                          out as per PAD estimates
     1)S325, Shitai-Qiatoudian                      74
     2)S322, Jing-Maolin                            35
     3)Xianyuan-Ximming-Sanxi                       44
     4)S323, Hongmen-Jinde                          38
     5)Xinqiao-Dabeitun                             52

3.   Highway safety: Black segments                                  This program was taken over by a
     and black spots                                                 province-wide safety program. The
                                                                     improvements expected under the
                                                                     project were carried out by the APCD
                                                                     program.
     Hefei-Huainan section, G206                   114               Done, under the expanded program
     Maanshan-Nanling section, G205                88                Done, under the expanded program

                                        Institutional Development
4.1 Training                            887 person-months in
                                        domestic training courses
                                        74 person-months trained
                                        abroad
                                        32 person-months were part
                                        of study tours abroad.
4.2 Study on Construction Supervision               Done             Action plan with short and long-term
                                                                     actions was prepared and measures are
                                                                     being implemented.
4.3 Study on Vehicle Overloading                   Done              Action plan was prepared. Toll levels
                                                                     were changed in proportion to vehicle
                                                                     weight, 32 axle weight control stations
                                                                     expected to be in place and operational
                                                                     by 2010




                                                   25
                         Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The ex-ante economic evaluation of the project done at appraisal covered the following two
project components: (i) construction of the 116.12 km Tongling-Tangkou Highway (TTH);
and (ii) upgrading of five rural roads (total 243 km) included in the Rural Road
Improvement Program (RRIP). The ex-post economic evaluation covers the TTH
construction and the upgrading program following the same economic methodology
applied at appraisal that computes project benefits in terms of reduction in vehicle
operating costs, travel time costs and maintenance costs over a 20 year evaluation period at
a 12% discount rate.

TTH
For evaluation purposes, TTH has been divided into three sections. The table below shows
the appraisal estimated lengths and the actual lengths for each road section, indicating an
actual overall distance savings of 25%.
                                      TTH Road Sections Length
                            Appraisal Estimate         Actual                Actual            Actual
                            Length of the New     Length of the New      Length of the        Distance
          Section
                            Expressway (km)       Expressway (km)     Existing Road (km)     Savings (%)
 Tongling-Yangmeicun              57.02                 65.09                77.00              15%
 Yangmeicun-Tanjiaqiao            48.95                 41.30                63.00              34%
 Tanjiaqiao-Tongkou               10.18                  9.73                15.00              35%
           Total                 116.15                116.12               155.00               25%


The table below shows the appraisal estimated construction costs and the actual
construction costs per road section. The actual overall construction cost per km is 30
Million RMB per km that is 8.5% lower than the appraisal estimate. The actual
construction period was around four years and the actual overall distribution of the road
work costs during the construction period was 12% in year 1, 28% in year 2, 34% in year 3
and 26% in year 4.
                               TTH Road Sections Construction Costs
                           Appraisal Estimate    Appraisal Estimate       Actual              Actual
                                                   Construction        Construction        Construction
                              Construction
          Section                                  cost (Million           Cost            cost (Million
                           cost (Million RMB)
                                                    RMB/km)           (Million RMB)         RMB/km)
 Tongling-Yangmeicun             1,426                  25.0               1,618               24.9
 Yangmeicun-Tanjiaqiao           1,371                  28.0               1,479               35.8
 Tanjiaqiao-Tongkou              1,313                 129.0                387                39.8
           Total                 4,109                 35.4               3,485                30.0


The traffic on TTH is mostly from diversion from existing roads with traffic from the two
main roads (S103 and G205) constituting the mayor corridor's traffic. The new traffic is
being diverted mostly from these two roads. At appraisal, the projected traffic growth rates
in the project corridor were estimated at an overall 4.2 percent per year for 2000-2008.
Actual traffic counts show that the actual traffic growth in 2000-2007 was 5.4% per year on


                                                  26
road S103 and 4.8% per year on road G205, indicating that the appraisal estimate was
reasonable and conservative . The table below shows the projected TTH traffic at opening
in 2008 and in 2010 estimated at appraisal and the actual traffic in 2008 and 2010 that
shows that the actual traffic in 2010 is around 45% less than the one estimated traffic at
appraisal for the first two sections and 23% less for the third section. The actual traffic in
2008 represents a traffic diversion from roads S103 and G205 in the order of 35%, 39%
and 50% on the three road sections, while at appraisal it was estimated that the majority of
the traffic will be diverted. In the coming years, most of the traffic increase of the TTH will
be generated by long-distance traffic, that will gradually divert to the TTH as expressways
in other provinces, south of Tongling, currently under construction, are completed.
                                        TTH Road Sections Traffic
                            Appraisal Estimate     Appraisal Estimate        Actual           Actual
                               TTH Traffic            TTH Traffic         TTH Traffic      TTH Traffic
         Section
                             in 2008 (AADT)         in 2010 (AADT)      in 2008 (AADT)   in 2010 (AADT)
 Tongling-Yangmeicun              7,931                  8,655               3,120            4,796
 Yangmeicun-Tanjiaqiao            7,688                  8,391               3,048            4,685
 Tanjiaqiao-Tongkou               6,790                  7,374               3,683            5,662


The ex-post economic evaluation was done by first replicating the appraisal economic
evaluation results on an Excel based economic evaluation model using road user costs
computed with the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM- 4) relationships
and considering all the input assumptions presented on the appraisal economic evaluation
annex. The ex-post economic evaluation was then done updating the main inputs of the
model to reflect actual values. The ex-post economic evaluation considers: (i) actual
lengths, (ii) actual construction costs, (iii) actual construction cost distribution, and (iv)
actual TTH traffic in 2010. The traffic projections for 2010-2017 and 2017-2027 adopted at
appraisal (3.2% and 2.3% per year respectively) were maintained for the ex-post
evaluation.

The table below presents the ex-post economic evaluation results that show that the actual
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of the TTH construction is 14.0%, which is
lower than the appraisal estimate (20.7%) due to the lower actual traffic on the expressway
in 2010 compared to the projected traffic at appraisal. The EIRR of the project (14.0%) is
still higher than 12.0%; therefore, the project is economically justified.

                                       TTH Economic Evaluation
                                                 Appraisal Estimate       Actual
                             Section                 EIRR (%)           EIRR (%)
                     Tongling-Yangmeicun               24.3                13.5
                     Yangmeicun-Tanjiaqiao             20.5                14.1
                     Tanjiaqiao-Tongkou                9.0                 15.3
                              Total                    20.7                14.0


RRIP




                                                    27
The table below shows the appraisal construction costs estimates for the upgrading of the
five rural roads (total 243 km) included in the Rural Road Improvement Program (RRIP).
The average upgrading cost is 2.1 Million RMB/km.
                       Rural Road Improvement Program Appraisal Estimates
                                      Length    Construction Cost    Construction Cost
                         Road
                                       (km)      (Million RMB)      (Million RMB/km)
                 Shitai-Qiaotoudian    74.0           148.0                 2.0
                 Jingxian-Maolin       35.0            70.0                 2.0
                 Xianyuan-Sanxi        44.0            88.0                 2.0
                 Hongmen-Jinde         38.0            90.0                 2.4
                 Xinqiao-Dabeifu       52.0           104.0                 2.0
                         Total         243.0         500.0                 2.1


The table below shows the actual construction costs that are on average 27% lower than the
appraisal estimates. This indicates that the actual economic evaluation return of this
program is higher than the one estimated at appraisal (21.4%), considering the same traffic
and benefits. The ex-post economic evaluation shows that considering the lower
construction costs, the actual EIRR of the upgrading component is 26.5%.
                           Rural Road Improvement Program Actual Costs
                                       Length   Construction Cost     Construction Cost
                         Road
                                        (km)     (Million RMB)       (Million RMB/km)
               Shitai-Qiaotoudian       74.1          98.3                   1.3
               Jingxian-Maolin          39.0          66.4                   1.7
               Xianyuan-Sanxi           36.4          74.4                   2.0
               Hongmen-Jinde            32.7          65.4                   2.0
               Xinqiao-Dabeifu          51.3          56.0                   1.1
                         Total          233.5         360.5                  1.5


Combined ERR for TTH and RRIP
The combined ERR for the TTH and RRIP is 14.7 %

Financial Return and Position
The PAD estimates the financial return of the TTH at 1.3 %. At completion, the TTH
financial return is in the same order of magnitude. However, as noted in the PAD, the
financial return of the TTH has to be seen in the wider context of the Hefei-Tangkou
corridor, of which the TTH is a part. The TTH, by attracting long-distance travelers, will
increase the financial return of the other expressway sections along the Hefei-Tangkou
corridor.

All rural roads under the RRIP program are toll free, and therefore a financial return is not
applicable.

An Income Statement of the TTH shows a fairly good financial position, and the ability to
fund all expenses.



                                                28
29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
      Names                       Title                  Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
                    Task Team Leader/Sr. Transport
Yasuhiro Kawabata                                       EASTR Transport Engineering
                    Specialist
Han-Kang Yen        Economist/Financial Specialist      EASTR Economics/Finance
Toshiyuki Yokota    Highway Engineer                    TUDTR Rural Roads
Tony Whitten        Environment Specialist              EASES Biodiversity
Anil Somani         Sr. Environment Specialist          EASES Environment
Peishen Wang        Environment Specialist              EACCF Environment
Zhang Chaohua       Social Development Specialist       EASES Social Development
Zhefu Liu           Social Development Specialist       EACCF Social Development
Karin Nordlander    Sr. Counsel                         LEGEA Legal
Robert O'Leary      Disbursement Officer                LOAG3 Loan Management
Yang Dawei          Procurement Specialist              EACCF Procurement
Chau-Ching Shen     Financial Specialist                EACCF Finance
Zhang Fang          Disbursement Specialist             EACCF Loan Management
Teresita Ortega     Program Assistant                   EASTE Administration
Xin Chen            Operation Assistant                 EACCF Administration
                    Safety/Training/Social Assessment         Social Development/
Setty Pendakur                                          EASTR
                    Consultant                                Traffic Safety
Arun Kumar          Construction Quality Consultant     EASTR Quality Assurance
Supervision/ICR
Nurul Alam          Senior Procurement Specialist       EAPCO   Procurement
Junxue Chu          Senior Finance Officer              LOAFC   Finance
Fei Deng            Transport Specialist                EASTE   Transport Economics
Yiren Feng          Environmental Specialist            EASCS   Environment
Alejandro Gamboa    Senior Advisor to Executive Di      EDS15   Administration
Yi Geng             Financial Management Specialist     EAPCO   Finance
Jingrong He         Procurement Analyst                 EAPCO   Procurement
Yasuhiro Kawabata   Consultant                          EXTTK   Transport Engineering
Arun Kumar          Consultant                          EASVS   Transport Economics
Ningyuan Li         Consultant                          EASTE   Transport Economics
Yan Lu              Transport Specialist                EASCS   Transport Economics
Aurelio Menendez    Sector Manager                      LCSTR   Transport Economics
Juan D. Quintero    Sr. Environmental Engineer          EASRE   Environment Management
Jacques M. Tollie   Consultant                          EAPCO   Economics
Peishen Wang        Consultant                          GEFEO   Environment Management
Hongkun Yang        Consultant                          EASCS   Procurement
Ning Yang           Environmental Specialist            EASCS   Environment Management
Songling Yao        Social Development Specialist       EASCS   Social Development
Han-Kang Yen        Research Analyst                    EASTE   Research Management
Xiaoke Zhai         Transport. Specialist               EASCS   Transport


                                          30
Wenlai Zhang             Sr. Transport Specialist            EASCS    Transport
Chaohua Zhang            Sr. Social Sector Specialist        SASDI    Social Development
Qi Zhu                   Consultant/FM Specialist            EAPCO    Financial Management
Youlan Zou               Consultant                          EASCS    Transport Economics
Mitch Asada              Sr. Transport Specialist            EASTE    Transport Engineering
Hernan Levy              Consultant                          EASTE    Transport Economics


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                             USD Thousands (including
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                                23                      116.41
  FY03                                                54                      243.95
  FY04                                                 0                        0.00
  FY05                                                 0                        0.00
  FY06                                                 0                        0.00
  FY07                                                 0                        0.00
  FY08                                                 0                        0.00
                               Total:                 77                      360.36
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                 0                        0.00
  FY03                                                 0                        0.00
  FY04                                                14                       79.82
  FY05                                                 6                       35.31
  FY06                                                13                       70.54
  FY07                                                 6                       43.14
  FY08                                                 9                       37.39
  FY09                                                10                       74.16
 FY10                                                  2                       17.55
                               Total:                 60                      357.91




                                                 31
                   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(Not Applicable)




                                   32
               Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(Not Applicable)




                                     33
                                                                                                   3
                                    Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

A. Project Description
This project is the second highway project of Anhui Province to be implemented by
making use of the World Bank loan. Total investment is about 4.8 billion RMB, in which
US$250 million was loaned from the World Bank, accounting for 41% of the total
investment, a portion of fund provided by the Chinese government, and the remaining
funded by the Anhui provincial government.
The project was initiated for preparation in Nov., 2004. The Bank appraisal was
implemented in Feb., 2003 after identification stage in April 2002. The project was
negotiated in May 2003 and "Loan Agreement" and "Project Agreement" were signed on
Dec. 12, 2003. The loan became officially effective on April 5, 2004 after confirmation
by both sides, and the loan was closed on June 30, 2009.
The scope of the project includes:
      (1) Expansion of highway capacity and promotion of regional integration by
          constructing approximately 116km of trunk highways.
      (2) Improvement of accessibility to low-income counties by rehabilitating and
          improving 243km of the Class III/IV highway network.
      (3) Improvement of road safety by upgrading selected dangerous sections that are
          crucial to the road network.
      (4) Strengthening the highway management capacity of APCD through technical
          assistance and training, including:
             ---Study on construction supervision
             ---Study on overloading of vehicles
B. Project Objective
The purpose of this project is to support the social and economic development of Anhui
Province by providing an efficient, safe, and cost-effective highway infrastructure and
improving conditions of road transport
When the development objective is realized, the project will produce the following
outcomes:
-- Transport capacity will be enhanced for the promotion of market integration in the
   low-income southeast area of Anhui.
-- Accessibility to low-income areas in the province will be improved.
-- Safety of road transport will be improved, and
-- Institutional capacity of APCD and relevant institutions will be strengthened, through
   policy, institutional and organizational reform and provision of training, assistance of
   technology and equipment.




3
    Annexes for the Borrower's ICR were provided by the Borrower but not included in this ICR due to the space limitations.




                                                                  34
C. Organizational Structure
The client of the project is Anhui Provincial Communications Department (APCD). The
construction headquarters at all levels are composed of Government of Anhui Province,
APCD, some provincial departments concerned and the municipal government of the
cities along the highway which will be responsible for all the coordination work. Anhui
Provincial Communications Department World Bank Loan Project Execution Office
(PEO) has been set up under the Anhui Provincial Communications Department to be
responsible for the preparation, the execution of the World Bank Project as well as the
coordination of all component activities, including procurement, supervision,
environment and resettlement. Anhui Highway Administration Bureau (AHAB) is in
charge of the local roads improvement program.
D. Project Implementation
Tongling-Tangkou Highway (TTH), 116km in length, commenced in June 2004 and
completed in Sep., 2007. It is part of 7918 Beijing to Taibei Corridor in the national
expressway network. It connects with Xuzhou, Hefei, Tongling, Huangshan and Hanzhou
along north-south direction. It locates in Jiuhua Mountain Scenic Spot, and runs through
the famous Taiping Lake scenic area in the south of Anhui Province. Execution of this
project will highly improve the highway network of Anhui Province and accelerate the
development of the poverty-stricken mountainous areas in southern Anhui province by
improving the capacity of transport development. Tongling-Tangkou Highway starts
from the end of already opened Lujiang-Tongling Expressway (Chainage: Km
78+060.78), on the southern bank of Tongling Yangtze Bridge and ends at the Shancha
Village of Tangkou Town of Huangshan City at Chainage: Km 194+176 with a total
length of 116.115 km. TTH is a fully access controlled expressway in the hilly and
mountainous area with asphalt concrete pavement. Tongling-Yangmei section is 57km,
one of the separated sub-grade is 13m with the pavement width of 11.5m at a design
speed of 100km/h Yangmei-Tangkou section is 59 km with a design speed of 80km/h;
its separated sub-grade is 12.5m with the pavement width of 11m.
Basing on the features of the highway located in the mountainous area, the effective
measures have been taken during construction to ensure the construction quality.
(1) There is a great difference for the nature of soil in mountain, which consists of high
    liquid limit clay, silt soil, sandy soil and weathered stones. In this aspect, to address
    such issues, test and inspection have been intensified to avoid ineligible filling
    materials into the project; standard tests have been verified from time to time in
    accordance with quality control standards.
(2) Half-excavation/half-filling sections, excessive excavation and filling sections, high-
    filling subgrade sections were rolled by impact roller for reinforcement. The
    responsibilities have been assigned to individuals to ensure the compacting effect.
(3) The backfilling behind abutment has been deemed as a one of eight common faults
    for highway construction, namely, small quantity of work, short construction period
    makes it difficult to control the quality in a proper way. Special examinations were
    undertaken on the backfilling behind abutment by Chief Supervision Engineering
    Office (CEO) at random frequency, involving backfilling width, length, thickness of
    each backfill, backfill compaction, backfill account, records, contractor's self-


                                             35
    inspection information, supervisor's random inspection information and so on. The
    proposals were given for correcting the problems identified during inspection in a
    timely manner to standardize the backfilling behind abutment and reduce the
    inevitability of vehicle bumping.
(4) Control of concrete structures: The concrete mixing ratio is under strict approval
    procedures to ensure the construction quality. Besides, careful reviews were carried
    out based on the submission of mortar and concrete mixing ratio (including
    underwater concrete and waterproof concrete, etc.) from the site office; to avoid any
    unqualified case caused by the poor design, other measures, such as standardization
    of site management, civilized construction and centralized mixing of concrete have
    been taken for strict control of quality; the concrete mixing machinery must be
    examined by national metrology agency ; material storage must meet the
    requirements of technical specifications; the material storage shall meet the
    requirements of construction specifications. The piling area must have been
    hardened with different storage areas for different materials separately.
(5) Tunnel construction quality control: With the project progressing forward, the
    contractors were required with technical and mechanical input and with cross-section
    excavation under standardized manner to guarantee the adequate tunnel size. Close
    monitoring and survey were made from time to time through construction of
    excavation to accurately determine the type of wall rock for construction control. It
    was of great importance to identify the inside support and anchor position and ensure
    the thickness of concrete injected. Ground penetrating radar was adopted to detect
    thickness of lining and hollowness; remedies were taken in time when problems are
    identified, which has played an important role in quality control.
Road Maintenance
The improvement/upgrading for national / provincial highways involves 234km long,
which were divided into 13 contract sections for construction. The detailed information is
shown below:
               Length   Pavement     Type of   Commencement   Completion   Original   Newly built
Road section
                Km      Width (m)   pavement      Date          Date        class       class
  Shitai-
               74.05       7-9      Asphalt     2004-12-29    2007-4-30      III         II/III
Qiaotoudian
 Jingxian-
               38.96       7-9      Asphalt      2004-12-1    2005-10-30     IV          II/III
  Maolin
Xuanyuan-
                36.4       7-9      Asphalt      2004-12-1    2005-12-30     III         II/III
   Sanxi
Hongmen-
                32.7       7-9      Asphalt      2004-12-1    2005-10-30     IV          II/III
   Jinde
 Xinqiao-
               51.34       7-9      Asphalt      2004-12-1    2007-1-30      IV          II/III
 Dapaibu

Highway Safety

1. G205 section between Maanshan --Nanling k1333--k1421             Totally 7 points
   including 3 intersections and 4 points crossing towns and improvement of marking
   line and traffic sign of the full section




                                               36
2. G206 section between Hefei and Huainan K930--k1044                3 intersections, 6
   points crossing towns, improvement of poor sight, marking line and traffic sign of the
   full section
3. Highway safety audit training program: Including highway design safety audit
   training, highway construction safety audit training, general highway operation and
   maintenance safety audit training and expressway operation and maintenance safety
   audit training
The black spots of G205 have been eliminated thanks to the highway reconstruction by
Wuhu municipal government in 2005 with all the expenses paid by Wuhu Municipal
government.
The traffic safety improvement project of G206( Hefei-Huainan section) has been
finished, which mainly involves 3 grade crossings, 5.85km median strips, 36000m2 slabs
change in pavement, marking lines and traffic signs and other auxiliary facilities
construction with the expense totaling 7.83 million RMB. Completion for G206 traffic
safety improvement is shown in Appendix 1.
During the period of Jan. 15-20, 2005, the training program related to "highway
construction, operation and maintenance" was held in Hefei, Anhui, 50 participants
presented. The participants are from 18 contractors under Anhui Project II, the staff from
engineering sections and Subproject offices in various highway bureaus.
Studies
1. The subject study of construction supervision has been finished in Jul. 2007. High
   grade highway construction supervision operation procedure manual and quality
   supervision manual have been compiled by studying the status quo of supervision
   sector, and carefully analyzing the supervisor bidding procedure, supervisor's duties,
   and supervisor's site management program. The research team has worked out
   corresponding action plan so as to improve the supervision construction and
   management step by stem in the future's highway construction in a bid to raise the
   highway supervision efficiency and ensure the highway construction under efficient,
   excellent, orderly and rapid development. The construction supervision action plan is
   shown as in Appendix
2. The study for vehicle overload has been finished in Dec., 2005. It has analyzed the
   social impact of vehicle overload, put forward relevant strategies and proposals for
   control and management of vehicle overload, and worked out short-term and long-
   term overload control action plan to make it beneficial to the maintenance of highway
   property. The overload control action plan is shown as in Appendix 3.
Supervision Consulting
The Louise Berger Group Co., US was selected for construction supervision consulting
service in accordance with world-bank procurement guidelines with 69 person-months, of
which 5 person-months were used for training program.
Personnel Training
The study tours and trainings abroad were held by APCD for 115 persons/month with
total cost of US$1.26 million, on topics of highway planning, construction supervision,


                                           37
resettlement, project management, traffic safety, highway and bridge design, highway
maintenance, highway operation, financial management, environment protection and
monitoring, highway construction management, highway engineering quality control,
highway financing and human resources, etc. APCD also carried out the local training of
887 person-months starting from Anhui Highway Project II. Such training has benefited
to enrich the latest knowledge for highway design, construction, operation and
maintenance. The analysis of training effectiveness is shown as Appendix 4 and the
training completion information shown as Appendix 5.
Environment Protection
This Project is close to the famous Yellow Mountain, world double-heritage protection
area and well-known Jiuhua Mountain and passes through Taiping Lake Scenic Spot,
therefore the environmental protection is particularly highlighted during the process of
construction. Various effective measures and tasks were heavily implemented on the
basis of experiences from the Anhui Highway Project by combining the actual
circumstances of the project. Manual of Environmental Protection Works for Tongling-
Tangkou Highway has been developed and issued. Other solutions also included
organization of environmental protection training, launching of expert studies on
ecological protection for slopes. Environmental monitoring was executed by Provincial
Environmental Monitoring Center on the regular basis and reported to the client
accordingly. In case that any problems were identified, they shall be solved without delay
in an effort to build Tongling-Tangkou Highway into an "ecological, environment-
friendly, green" road.
The systematic study has been undertaken with ecological restoration during construction
for TTH. With various experiences and technologies achieved on environment protection
for highway construction, landscape harmony, environment supervision, such a study
focused on plantings, borrow pits, disposal sites and planting screening for slope
protection. Its achievements and outcomes have been conducive to ecological restoration.
With the joint efforts, TTH would be achieved with "Demonstration Project" on
ecological restoration.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Land acquisition and resettlement has been completed successfully. Based on the
requirements of resettlement action plan, the Communication Branch of Anhui University
was chosen as an agent for external monitoring. The resettlement plan has been
implemented smoothly. The affected people's living standard and income have been
increased. The resettlement proposal was reached on the basis of adequate
communications with the affected persons. This proposal was made to help speed up the
adjustment of agricultural structure and increase the land use effectiveness and stimulate
the development of agriculture.
Resettlement work for the project was started from September 2003 and ended in May
2005. Land acquisition was about 11,464 mu in total, house demolition 101,655m2; one
affected enterprise and all the affected people have been resettled, and the enterprise has
restored for new production. Total investment cost for compensation of land acquisition,
demolition and resettlement of Tongling-Tangkou Highway totaled 223,995,850 RMB,
55,663,750 RMB over the plan of RAP with the rise by 24.85%.


                                            38
Operation of Subprojects
It is the fact that the actual traffic volume is different with that of the forecast, but its
operation has been generally satisfactory. Tongling-Tangkou Corridor has been
significantly shortened in travel time. The minimal time travel along this corridor was
shortened from 245 minutes in 2004 and to 83 minutes in 2008. The highway was opened
to traffic in September 2007 and its tolling revenue reached 54.19 million RMB by the
end of 2008.
Before Tongling-Tangkou Highway was opened for trial operation since September 28,
2007, Anhui Provincial Communications Department has entrusted Anhui Provincial
Communications Investment Group Ltd. (APCI) to conduct a careful preparatory work
before its operation. First of all, it established a special management organization ---
Qingyang Expressway Management Co. of APCI in charge of the management of
Tongling-Tangkou Highway. The company includes six departments relative to tolling,
asset property, maintenance, administration, personnel and financial control) and 6 toll
stations (Tongling, Qingyang, Lingyang, Taiping Lake, Gantang and Tangjiaqiao) for
daily tolling, highway conservation and highway property maintenance etc. Its
maintenance has been taken with emphasis on routine maintenance, preventive
maintenance and comprehensive maintenance under innovative concept. In August 2007,
its maintenance was procured for routine maintenance under competitive way. Finally
there were 5 companies selected for undertaking the minor repair and maintenance.
Highway Maintenance Project
Through upgrading of national/provincial highways and rural roads, the pavement quality
has been improved and widened, traffic capacity raised, the traffic volume rapidly
increased for these sections. The local social and economy along the highways have been
obviously strengthened owing to the benefit from the improved road accessibility of
property-stricken areas.
Tasks for contractors and consultants
Civil works: The civil works of Anhui Highway Project II ----Tongling-Tangkou
Highway was divided into 18 contract sections, which will be procured in accordance
with international competitive bidding rule. The construction will be performed by
contractors in accordance with the contract, specifications, design/ drawings. The general
work has been done in a satisfactory way.
With the joint efforts by the client, supervisors and contractors, all sub-projects under
Anhui Highway Project II were completed on schedule. The project quality has met the
specifications and the contract requirements, and passed through the acceptance of
government.
Supervision consulting service: Louise Berger Group Ltd., USA was selected as the
consultant for service on construction supervision. 3 consultants were dispatched based
on the TOR with 69 person-months input at the total cost of US$1.05 million paid (78
person-months with US$1.12 million as contracted). Through close cooperation with the
local supervisors, they jointly inspect the site to ensure the construction quality and
progress, review payment certificates, variation orders, and prepare the relevant reports.



                                             39
The training program was also made by this consultant for both local and overseas
training with 100 trainees and 20 trainees respectively.
The local counterpart construction supervisors with adequate qualification and good
reputation were selected through national competitive bidding to engage in the
construction supervision of Tongling-Tangkou Highway. The supervisors, totaling about
215 persons, have fulfilled their management and control on construction quality,
progress, measurement and payment in accordance with the FIDIC terms, specifications
and drawings during the construction of Tongling-Tangkou Highway.
E. Successful experience and lesson
The various components under the project have been successful implemented and the
main objectives have been achieved.
 (1) The Tongling-Tangkou Expressway with total length of 116km has been
     successfully completed, which has helped relieve the traffic pressure along S103
     and G205 and improve the traffic capacity. The traffic accident rate has
     remarkably declined. It contribution also includes the promotion of market
     integration in Southeast Anhui and acceleration of tourism development for
     Jiuhuashan and Huangshan Scenic Areas. Since the completion of TTH, its
     positive effect has been gradually presented for exploitation of tourism resources,
     social, cultural and economic development. Both visitors and tourism revenues
     have been rapidly increased in Huangshan Ctiy. The visitors reached 2.036 million
     with tourism revenue of 1.156 billion RMB in 2007, which were 12.4% and 35.0%
     higher than those in 2006 respectively. Its growth rate has been much higher than
     that before the highway was opened in 2006. In 2006, the growth rate over the
     previous years is only 6.0% and 14% respectively in visitors and tourism revenue.
     Therefore, the project has been basically achieved the anticipated target. With the
     international practices and experiences introduced from the developed countries
     during process of implementation, we were much benefited and get improved in
     highway construction management of Anhui Province.
 (2) The national/provincial highways under rehabilitation and improvement category
     with total length of 234km were successfully completed, which has improved the
     traffic capacity for the trunk highway network of Anhui Province. These
     implementations have been benefitted to property-stricken areas, particularly in
     improvement of the infrastructure, and enhanced economic development, social
     and economic benefits of the counties and towns along the highway significantly.
 (3) Road safety subproject was completed with the domestic funds. It has been
     highlighted by the Provincial Government and APCD. Under the great support of
     governments of different counties, the black spots at G205 and G206, originally
     incorporated in Ahui Highway Project II, were satisfactorily treated by APCD
     under the joint funds by central and county-level governments, which contributed
     to a major impact by reducing traffic accidents. Since completion of their
     treatments, the traffic accidents at the improved sections were decreased by 19%,
     and death rate by 24%. The G205 Ma'anshan to Nanling section and G206 (Hefei -
     Huainan section), with a total of 18 black spots, were reduced by 60% in the
     number of traffic accidents.


                                          40
 (4) Through establishment of high-efficiency environment protection system and
     effective measures, it has effectively eliminated the environmental impact from the
     project and reduces the damage to the natural ecology to maximum extent.
 (5) With implementation of study tour and training at home and abroad, a large
     number of technical and project management personnel for highway management
     were cultivated and widely distributed in various fields of Anhui provincial
     highway and communication sector. They have become technical backbones and
     leaders of all the departments and specialized fields. This implementation has not
     only benefitted to successful construction of the highway, but also set an excellent
     example for other projects both inside and outside of Anhui and made outstanding
     contributions to the development of highway undertaking.
 (6) The bidding quotation for Tongling-Tangkou Highway has been much lower than
     that of the appraisal stage. The main reason is mainly caused by the fierce
     completion. The total cost of Tongling-Tangkou Highway is approximately 4.422
     billion RMB. The engineering cost for contract sections 01-18 totaled 3.485 billion
     RMB, in which the additional amount arisen from price adjustment is 199 million
     RMB and the additional amount arisen from the change is 693 million RMB. The
     bidders for each section under Tongling-Tangkou Highway are shown as
     Appendix 6.
Work of World Bank
Preparation of the Project: From Feb., 2002 to Feb., 2003, the Bank dispatched four field
missions to Anhui to assist in preparing the proposed project. In May 2003, the Board of
World Bank approved the project. The appraisal report analyzed the background
information and scope of the project. The World Bank reviewed the RAP and EAP,
designs and bidding document, procurement plans and a training program.
Project Implementation: After the loan agreement became effective in April 2004, the
World Bank dispatched two missions a year to supervise the subproject and monitored
the progress on both the main project and various sub-projects. The missions were
generally satisfied with the performance of APCD.
Cooperation between the Implementing Agency and the World Bank: between the
implementing agency and the World Bank have gone well along in cooperation. The
World Bank provided with necessary assistance during construction phase and helped the
employer with the variation matters, and agreed with the employer to raise the
reimbursement percentage on the civil works. With strong support and guidance made by
the World Bank and its Beijjng Office, the project was satisfactorily completed.




                                           41
     Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
(Not Applicable)




                                    42
                     Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

The World Bank, Second Anhui Highway Project: Project Appraisal Document
(Report No.25335-CHA), May 23, 2003

The World Bank, Second Anhui Highway Project: Loan Agreement (Loan
IBRD1830) between Peoples Republic of China and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, December 12, 2003

The World Bank, Second Anhui Highway Project: Project Agreement (Loan IBRD
1830) between Peoples Republic of China and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, December 12, 2003

The World Bank, Aide-Memoires of Second Anhui Highway Project, from 2003 to
2009.

World Bank, 2007, China's Expressways: Connecting People and Markets for Equitable
Development. EASTE Working Paper #13




                                        43
                                                                                                                                                  CHINA
                                                                                                            SECOND ANHUI HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                         206         NATIONAL ROADS

                                                                                                              RURAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM                                                                                                 PROVINCIAL ROADS
                                              PROPOSED TONGLING - TANGKOU HIGHWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RAILROADS
                                              EXPRESSWAY COMPLETED                                                                     RURAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SELECTED CITIES
                                              EXPRESSWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                               1   S325 Shi Tai ­ Qiao Tou Dian, 74km, II/III                                                                PREFECTURE CAPITALS
                                              EXPRESSWAY UNDER PLANNING
                                                                                                                               2   S322 Jing Xian ­ Mao Lin, 35km, III                                                                       PROVINCE CAPITAL
                                              RURAL ROAD NETWORK
                                                                                                                               3   Xian Yuan ­ Xin Ming San Xi, 44km, III                                                                    AIRPORTS
                                              POOR COUNTIES
                                                                                                                               4   S323 Hong Men ­ Jin De, 38km, III                                                                         RIVERS
                                              PROJECT INFLUENCE AREA
                                                                                                                               5   S221 Xin Qiao ­ Da Bei Fu, 52km, III                                                                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES


                         115°                                                          116°                                           117°                                    Chaohu        118°                                                      119°

                                                                                                                           Shucheng
                                                                                                                                                                  Chao
                                                                                                                                                                  Lake                                                              Boshi                                 JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Wuhu
                                                                                                         Huoshan



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Nanyi




                                                                                                                                                                                                   a ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lake
                                                                                                                       Tongcheng                                                                 Ji
               31°                                                                                                                                                                     Ch   an g                                                                                                                                                                              31°

                        H U B E I                                                                                                                                                                                          Xuanzhou
                                                                                                          Yuexi                                                                      Tongling             Nanling
                                                                                                                                                Caizi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Guangde
                                                                                                                                                Lake

                                                                                                                    Gaohe                                                                                 318
                                                                                                                                                                   Guichi                                                 Jing Xian
                                                                                       Hualiangting
                                                                                                                                                                                        Qingyang                                              Ningguo
                                                                                        Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                               Anqing

                                                                                              Taihu                                                         For Detail,                                                             4
                                                                                                                   Wuchang                                   see IBRD                                               3
                                                                                                                    Lake
                                                                                                                                                              31971                                                             Jingde
                                                                                                                                                                  Shitai        1
                                                                                               Longgun
                                                                                                 Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jixi
                                                                                                                                             Dongzhi
                                             C ha




               30°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            30°
                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ZHEJIANG
                                               ng




                                                                                                                                                                                  Yi Xian
                                                  Ji a




                                                     ng                                                                                                                      Qi Men                                        Shexian

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Xiuning                                                                         FEDERATION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Huangshan                                                                                                                    HEILONGJIANG



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JILIN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sea of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   XINJIANG                                                            OL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O   NG                          LIAONING                     Japan JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I M                                               D.P.R. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NE                BEIJING                               KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BEIJING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HEBEI    TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Yellow KOREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NINGXIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHANDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              QINGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GANSU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JIA
                                                                                                         J I A N G X I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHAANXI             HENAN                                           East




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  China
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ANHUI                SHANGHAI     Sea
                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HUBEI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XIZANG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SICHUAN
OCTOBER 2002




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Q




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 32133
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ZHEJIANG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NG
                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JIANGXI
                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                      0           25              50            75                                                                                     GUIZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HUNAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FUJIAN
                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                    National Capital
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PACIFIC
                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                       Province           YUNNAN                                                                        TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Boundaries                                  GUANGXI                GUANGDONG                                          OCEAN

                                                                                                                  Poyang                                          KILOMETERS                                                                         International
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MYANMAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MACAO

                     115°                                                           116°                                              117°                                                                                                           Boundaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  119°LAO          VIETNAM
                                                                                                                  Lake                                                                                                                                                 P.D.R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HAINAN                                                PHILIPPINES
