Report No. PID6373
Project Name                     Indonesia-Municipal Innovations Project (+)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Urban
Project ID                       IDPE56074
Implementing Agency              PUOD (Directorate General of Public
Administration and
Provincial Autonomy)
Jl. Merdeka Utara No. 7
Jakarta, Indonesia
Tel:    62 21 36.37.86
Fax:    62 21 36.00.91
Initial PID Date                 May 11, 1998
Date PID Prepared                November 16, 1998
Appraisal Date                   July, 1998
Board Date                       December 15, 1998
1.      Country and Sector Background.   In August 1997 the Bank sponsored a
Conference for Innovative Mayors to discuss new, more efficient ways of
addressing problems. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) is concerned with
providing basic infrastructure services to all levels of society, at the most
reasonable cost, and as quickly as possible. The sectoral issues can be
classified as: (a) providing infrastructure services to an ever growing urban
population at lower costs; (b) administrative, legal and institutional
development; (c) poverty and its reduction; (d) managing the environment
sustainably; and decentralization and reducing regional disparities.
Decentralization is being promoted by strengthening municipal planning and
management, financial performance and efficiency. Regional disparities should
be reduced by making secondary cities more attractive and by assisting the
poor with specific programs. The environment would be improved in a
sustainable manner by increasing environmental awareness, enforcing pollution
regulations, improving management of waste and sanitation.
Other foreign agencies are also providing assistance to the municipal sector,
and there is coordination among agencies.
2.      Objectives.   The project's main objective is to promote institutional
reform and demonstrate that client-responsive municipal service improvements
can be stimulated through small efforts and funded on a competitive basis.
More specifically, the project aims at:
motivating and empowering municipal governments to i) introduce efficiency-
enhancing procedures; ii) increase community participation; iii) improve
environmental management and greening of the city; iv) improve service
standards by employees; v) introduce innovative approaches expected to have
positive impacts on the cities; and vi) promote decentralization by
demonstrating the capacity of local governments;
providing awards for excellence;
disseminating municipal lessons across municipalities and supporting
development of an independent horizontal network of city managers; and
central government review of some practices affecting municipalities, aiming



at procedure simplification, increased transparency and accountability, and
professionalization of staff.
3.      Description.   The project envisages to support local agencies with (a)
the implementation of local initiatives through works, goods and services; (b)
technical assistance to central agencies; and (c) workshops, training, travel,
dissemination, cross assistance, and development of an independent network of
city managers.
4.      Financing.   The proposed loan is US$5 million.   A maximum US$100,000
grant per initiative can be allocated from the loan. The local contribution
is US$2.2 million equivalent. PUOD, within the Ministry of Home Affairs, will
provide the administration budget expected to be some 3t of the project cost
or about $200,000 equivalent. Local governments are expected to finance at
least 25t costs; this percentage has been greatly exceeded so far.
5.      Implementation.   PUOD is the implementing agency.   It will have a small
project management unit supported by technical assistance for administration,
verification of proposals, supervision, coordination across agencies,
reporting, dissemination, etc. Municipal agencies will implement the
innovations. Selected agencies will be informed via a circular as to how to
access funds, the monitoring and evaluation procedures, suggested training and
dissemination workshops, etc. The PMU will also coordinate the development of
a mayors' network.
The municipalities proposed their own innovations; an interministerial
committee has selected the best 30 proposals from among 400 submitted by
agencies. PUOD has proposed 3 pilots. Each participating city or agency will
agree to comply with the environmental and resettlement standards following
the Bank's guidelines, and have an Implementation Agreement with PUOD against
which loan disbursements can be made.
6.      Sustainability.   Initiatives that succeed should be promoted for
replication. Sustainability will be provided through standard municipal
budgets. The PMU will prepare brief, easy-to-read summaries of innovations,
newsletters, regional seminars. The Press will be invited to review and
comment.
7.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector.    Standard
urban investment projects do not encourage innovation. The process of central
approval of programs for financing makes for slow implementation and reduces
local flexibility. Private sector/community consultation and participation is
also limited by the system. This project is designed to encourage local staff
to try new approaches without having to be concerned over penalties for not
having followed fully existing procedures.
8.      Environmental and Social Aspects.   The project is classified as
Environment Category "B".   Many innovations fall in the "environment"
category, are small-scale and should enhance the environment and community
participation. Bank environmental guidelines apply. Little involuntary
resettlement is expected. Standard guidelines have been prepared, and will be
attached to Implementation Agreements between PUOD and the municipality, where
relevant.
9.      Program Objective Categories/Poverty Category.    This project will promote
environmentally sustainable development and sound economic management. The
- 2 -



project is not in the program of targeted poverty interventions, but it would
have a positive impact on the poor.
10.     Benefits.  As Indonesia's urban population is over 60 million and growing
at 5t per year, improvements in the quality of life or reduced costs of
providing services could have wide-spread impacts and benefits.     The
innovations planned for implementation under this project should lead to:
sustainable improved municipal management; information and communication; more
efficient and effective service delivery with a positive environmental impact;
increased private sector and community participation; and increased local
empowerment and transparency. These pilots should promote the process of major
institutional reforms envisaged by GOI.
12.     Risks are rated as moderate and are identified as follows:    (a) officials
with vested interests may try to oppose efficiency gains; (b) institutional
change takes time; (c) counterpart funding may be reduced by the difficult
economic situation; (d) technical assistance may be difficult to find; (e)
innovations may fail, but even these should be disseminated as a lesson; and
(f) Bank supervision resources may be insufficient.
13.     Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 20, 1998.
- 3 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID).
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-4-



