                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 27284-ID

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (SCL-44400)

                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION

                                 TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                      INDONESIA

                                        FOR A

                            MUNICIPAL INNOVATIONS PROJECT




                                    December 30, 2003




Urban Development Sector
Indonesia Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2003)

                                    Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
                                              Rp1 = US$ 0.0001
                                            US$ 1 = 8,000 Rp

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1    December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

Bappeda Tk I Provincial Development Planning Board (later Bappeprop)
Bappenas     National Development Planning Board
Bappeprop    Provincial Development Planning Board (previously named Bappeda Tk. I)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DA-DP D      Central Government grant to provincial and local governments (previously SPABP, later
             known as DIPP)
DIPP         see DA-DPD
EA           Executing Agency
GOI          Government of Indonesia
ILGRP        Institutional Local Government Reform Project (proposed)
ITB          Institute of Technology in Bandung
Kabupaten    Regency (local government)
Kota         Municipality (local government)
LG           Local Government
LIL          Learning and Innovations Loan
MIP          Municipal Innovations Project
MoF          Ministry of Finance
MoHA         Ministry of Home Affairs
MPW          Ministry of Public Works
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PBME         Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PMU          Project Management Unit
PUM          Directorate General of Public Administration (Pemerinahan Umum)
PUOD         Directorate General of Public Administration and Regional Autonomy (Pemerintahan
             Umum dan Otoomi Daerah)
SPABP        See DA-DPD above
UPT          One stop office for issuing permits and certificates (Unit Pelayanan Terpadu)
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
USDRPUrban Sector Development and Reform Project (proposed)

                                   Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                                 Country Director     Mr. Andrew Steer, EACIF
                                  Sector Manager      Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Ms. Indira Dharmapatni, EACIF

                                 REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                          MUNICIPAL INNOVATIONS PROJECT


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 8. Planned and Actual Project Implementation Schedule                      37
Annex 9. Spatial Distribution of Participating Local Governments                 38
Annex 10. Participating Local Government by Field of Activity                    40
Annex 11. List of Subprojects                                                    41
Annex 12. Intended and Attained Innovations                                      44
Annex 13. Workshops Conducted                                                    54
Annex 14. Structure of Website                                                   57
Annex 15. Specimen of Newsletter                                                 58
Annex 16. Training                                                               60
Annex 17. Awards of Excellence Program                                           63
Annex 18. Case Studies                                                           65
Annex 19. Financial Analysis                                                     79
Annex 20. Successful, Sustainable and Replicable Subprojects                     82

Project ID: P056074                                                  Project Name: MUNICIPAL INNOVATIONS
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Indira Dharmapatni                                      TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: MUNICIPAL INNOVATIONS PROJECT                            L/C/TF Number: SCL-44400
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (60%);
                            Sub-national government administration (30%); Animal production
                            (10%)
                  Theme: Municipal governance and institution building (P); Access to urban
                            services for the poor (P); Other urban development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/20/1998                                     Effective: 03/30/1999                05/31/1999
     Appraisal: 06/20/1998                                         MTR:                             05/12/2001
      Approval: 02/09/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Indonesia/PUOD, Ministry of Home Affairs
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean Michel Severino
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager:                 Keshav Varma                                   Keshav Varma
Team Leader at ICR:             Indira Dharmapatni                             Frida Johansen
ICR Primary Author:             Indira Dharmapatni


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Indonesia is the world's fourth most populous nation and one of the world's most diverse countries in terms
of regional cultures and traditions. Until 1998, its administrative structure was fairly stable, if somewhat
rigid, and the lion's share of political power and administrative authority were concentrated at national
level. Moves toward decentralization were made only very slowly and cautiously, restrained by fears that a
hurried transfer of too much political power and administrative authority to regional entities might
endanger the country's integrity. In the framework of these very cautious decentralization measures,
provincial development planning bodies (Bappeda Tk. I) were established in 1974, and corresponding
bodies (Bappeda Tk. II) at local level (the level of regencies and municipalities) in 1980. A milestone in
the decentralization process was the promulgation of guidelines for regional development management in   1


1982.

Following the fall of Suharto in 1998, the decentralization drive gained greater momentum. Its main
manifestation was the promulgation of Acts No. 22/1999 and 25/1999 in March 1999. These two acts
regulate a very ambitious move toward administrative and fiscal decentralization, and were implemented
starting January 2001. These laws allocate a high degree of political power and administrative authority to
local governments, i.e., to the regencies and municipalities. This implies increased opportunities for local
governments to develop innovative approaches for managing their own affairs, in marked difference to
earlier years, when all local management mechanisms were strictly prescribed by central government and
were to be followed to the letter.

The end of the Suharto administration was also accompanied by widespread calls for a thorough reform of
all working modalities in the public sector to achieve more efficiency, transparency and accountability. The
framework conditions were thus very conducive for innovative efforts at the municipal level; however many
years of very rigid administration had created and reinforced a government culture that was not
reform-minded but geared more towards retaining the status quo. Against this background, the Municipal
Innovations Project (MIP) was prepared beginning in 1997 , before the end of the Suharto era, through
                                                             2


mid-1999, as a project to be supported by what was then a new lending instrument for the Bank, a
Learning-and-Innovation Loan (LIL).

The objectives of the project are: to promote institutional reform and demonstrate that client-responsive
                              3


municipal service improvements can be stimulated through small efforts and funded on a competitive basis;
in particular, to encourage: (a) efficient municipal innovation projects; (b) dissemination of successes; and
(c) improving central government practices affecting municipalities.

Assessment of Objectives.

The definition and formulation of the project's objectives were logical, comprehensive, appropriate, and
timely. The objectives fit the CAS and the political priorities of GOI, especially after the change of regime
in May 1998. The project was launched within three months of the promulgation of the two Acts that laid
the legal groundwork for Indonesia's decentralization policy. The project's three objectives reflected very
well the needs of an emerging decentralized government system, in line with GOI's policies, past and
present.


3.2 Revised Objective:

N/A

3.3 Original Components:



                                                      - 2 -

The project components are summarized below.

Component A: Municipal Innovation Subprojects (total cost $6.45 million; Loan financing $4.45
million)

This component was was divided into two subcomponents. Sub-component A1 financed efforts to carry
out efficiency enhancing innovative service delivery projects in participating local governments by
providing them with grants. Sub-component A2 was to carry out pilot projects to improve the
administration, transparency in planning and implementation of expenditures, and disclosure of the
performance of local governments. A1 was to be handled by local governments and A2 was to be initiated
and supported by the Executing Agency (EA).

Component B: Institutional Development (total cost $700,000; Loan financing $500,000)

This component envisaged: (a) to strengthen the capacity of PMU in project administration, supervision,
and monitoring; (b) to carry out workshops and dissemination activities relating to successful innovation
projects; (c) to carry out training of selected local government staff toward efficiency enhancement; and (d)
to implement a program of awards of excellence for municipal innovation projects.

Assessment of Project Design.

The stated overall objectives of the project were logical, comprehensive, appropriate, and timely; however
the project components and allocation of resources, were somewhat unbalanced, to the disadvantage of the
stated objectives of dissemination and of improving central government practices affecting municipalities.

The project design did not provide adequate resources for comprehensive documentation of the results of
the various innovations, even though it must have been clear that these innovations would largely be of a
trial nature and that their comprehensive documentation was crucial, regardless of whether or not they were
directly and technically successful. Related to that, the project design did not provide sufficient resources
to establish an easily accessible platform that would present this documentation in a user-friendly manner.
As this was a project supported by a LIL, the relative importance of documentation and dissemination of
results was much higher than would have been the case in a standard investment project.

The project design did not fully anticipate or provide for the capacity deficiencies of the EA for project
operations, particularly for implementing a project supported by a LIL and for handling innovations like the
ones envisaged under this project. It could not have anticipated the repeated restructurings of the Ministry
of Home Affairs (MoHA) which took place over the life of the project.

No component or sub-component was apparently ever specifically focused on the project's third objective
of improving central government practices affecting municipalities. There is no record of framework
conditions or policies that were targeted for improvement or adjustment. Instead, the innovations to be
promoted by the EA concentrated on improving the activities and practices of the local governments
themselves.

3.4 Revised Components:

N/A

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. There was (a) a near-optimum match between the type of project as
an innovation project and the timing, providing the project with conducive framework conditions; (b) high
political commitment from GOI and local governments at project launch; and (c) project preparation that



                                                       - 3 -

had been done with a very high degree of involvement, freedom, and voluntary commitment from the local
governments. Preparation was based on a competitive allocation of funds to local governments, which in
itself was an innovation. On the other hand, as noted in section 3.3 above, the envisaged project
components and resource allocations did not adequately support all the project objectives.

The PUOD, or the Directorate General of Public Administration and Regional Autonomy (with the
MoHA), requested the project in November 1997 and was consequently chosen as EA. The Bank team
considered that: (a) MoHA was legally in charge of supervising and guiding local governments and
overseeing the decentralization process; (b) MoHA commanded, therefore, a higher degree of respect
among local governments than other central level ministries; (c) as the only Directorate General within
MoHA, PUOD possessed a Directorate of Urban Affairs; (d) the leadership of that Directorate of Urban
Affairs was assessed as being progressive and reform-minded; and (e) PUOD appeared to be more in need
of capacity and institution building efforts than other ministries.

In hindsight, the identification of PUOD (later PUM) as the EA for this project appears justified. A
possible alternative would have been the Directorate General for Regional Development within MoHA, but
it did not possess a Directorate of Urban Affairs, and appeared less reform-minded. Other possible
alternative EAs could have been the Ministry of Public Works (MPW, now Ministry of Settlement and
Regional Infrastructure), which had much more expertise in managing Bank-funded project, but which
would have pushed the project into a more technical direction, because that Ministry lacked the legal brief
to steer decentralization and institution building in a more comprehensive sense. The national planning
agency, Bappenas, was deemed to be an inappropriate choice for EA, although it possessed highly
competent human resources and did execute projects at that time.

The choice of a LIL emerged from the common understanding between GOI and the Bank that the project
concept, articulated mainly on the basis of a seminar held in August 1997 , was for an operation that would
                                                                            4


be largely experimental in nature, with all associated risks. Neither from the vision of central government,
nor from the combined visions of the mayors who had participated in that seminar, could a large and
conceptually safe project be derived, and a standard investment loan of a large amount appeared unfeasible.
Therefore, GOI and the Bank finally concluded that a LIL would be the appropriate instrument to support
the envisaged project.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of the project's objectives is rated satisfactory. Annex 8 shows the planned and actual
project implementation schedule.

The main achievement of the project was that: (a) it strengthened local governments' will to innovate, even
at the risk that some innovations might not be immediately successful in the technical sense; (b) it lent
comprehensive support and guidance to local governments in translating this will to innovate into adequate
action programs; and (c) it secured the necessary support from the relevant ministries at central level for
this will to innovate. Compared to the previously prevailing government culture of trying to preserve the
status quo, this constitutes an significant change, and is an innovation in itself.

Encouraging Efficient Municipal Innovations. With regard to this objective, there was a fairly wide
spectrum of target attainments across the 66 selected subprojects, from near-total failure to encouraging
success, but the number of successful subprojects exceeded the number of failures significantly. Also, the
PAD expresses clearly that it was never expected that all municipal innovations would be directly
successful in the technical sense. Therefore, this objective has clearly been satisfactorily met.

Dissemination of Successes. The project has, through repeated project workshops, facilitated an exchange


                                                       - 4 -

of experiences among the participating local governments, and facilitated the transfer of those experiences
from participating to non-participating local governments, and to the EA and to relevant provincial
governments. (See Annex 13.) Also, the project began a dedicated internet website (see Annex 14 for
structure). Another vehicle for dissemination of project results was a regularly published newsletter (see
Annex 15 for speciman). Two copies of each newsletter edition were sent to more than 300 local
governments. However, the project did not complete a comprehensive and easily accessible information
platform that would allow a wide range of other interested municipalities to gain access to the experiences
of MIP, and to assess the reasons for failure or the conditions for success of the innovation projects. Other
interested municipalities will have only standard sources of information (standard technical literature etc.)
as a basis for their own decision-making, and they are likely to be limited to the same trial-and-error
approach as without MIP, unless the EA follows through on its plans to complete the already established
dedicated website. Since Loan closing, the EA has allocated budget to continuously improving the quality
of the website. The EA is preparing narratives of selected sub-projects explaining the success and failures
as well as lessons learned, which will also be included in the website. This website should be completed to
ensure that the various successes of MIP subprojects do not remain isolated experiences, but become part
of a much wider learning process. This objective is partially met.

Improving Central Government Practices Affecting Municipalities. With regard to this objective, the
project initiated several significant changes. MoHA accepted lists of subprojects based on an evaluation by
an independent panel of experts rather than an evaluation done by government bureaucrats . MoF5


approved a new fund disbursement model, with funds being transfered directly to project managers and
with expanded possibilities for withdrawing funds for advance payments. In contrast to its usual practices,
MoF also permitted frequent changes of the financial working documents ("Lembar Kerja"). This
adaptability was a crucial precondition for the project's flexible, outcome-orientation, enabling it to respond
to the results of ongoing stakeholder consultations or unforeseen developments.

Central government adopted a new approach to selecting trainees (competitive selection based on clearly
defined criteria circulated to all local governments) and to selecting jurors for the award-of-excellence
program (a more participatory approach, considering suggestions from local governments and a selection
on the basis of clearly defined criteria). This program and the invitation to participate were advertised in
the national daily KOMPAS, complete with the criteria for participation. Program materials were mailed
or faxed to all local governments. The winners were also announced in KOMPAS.

The EA began to apply a new style of project supervision that emphasized construction supervision and
helpful partnering, in a manner that was clearly not aimed at finding fault or eliciting favors. The MoHA
accepted the new website as a platform for exchanging information related to municipal innovations,
independent from MoHA's own website. There is now a pronounced political will to continue, even without
funding from the Bank, some of the project's crucial activities, such as the staging of workshops, the
further improvement and continuous updating of the dedicated website, and the awards-of-excellence
program. (Central government conducted a follow-up workshop from its own resources in October 2003.)
The development of local government performance indicators was launched with significantly increased
participation of local governments.

4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                      - 5 -

Component A : Municipal Innovation Subprojects

Sub-Component A1: Efficiency Enhancing Innovative Service Delivery Projects.

Annex 9 lists the participating local governments along with the subprojects accepted by the independent
panel established in 1998. The PAD lists 23 accepted proposal, and in 2000 and 2001 more proposals were
accepted, bringing the total to 54 proposals, including nine pilot projects initiated and supported by the EA.
Another 12 proposals, selected from 48 submissions, were accepted in 2003, after completion of on-the-job
training in Malaysia. Considering the time pressure due to Loan closure, then scheduled for June 2003,
these were selected by the PMU with support from the Bank, rather than by the independent panel. Thus,
the project comprised all together 66 subprojects, implemented by 58 local governments.

The PAD had envisaged only 40 subprojects but many more potentially innovative project proposals were
received from local governments. On the one hand, the proposals were articulated by local governments
without undue influence by higher administrative levels, and they are not seen as having been imposed by
some higher level of government or by the Bank. On the other hand, these proposals seem to have largely
originated from within the local government bureaucracy itself, and there is scant evidence that these
proposals were drawn up in the client-responsive manner envisaged at appraisal. The sectoral distribution
                                                  6


of subprojects is shown in Annexes 10 and 11. Annex 12 summarizes the assessment of the achievement of
each subproject. Although most activities for each subproject were implemented, the quality of their
outputs is mixed, which in turn, affects the overall impact and sustainability of the subprojects. Overall, the
achievement of the outputs of sub-component A1 is marginally satisfactory. GOI's ICR analyzes 17
                                                                                             7


subprojects on the success of their implementation. It concludes that six subprojects were implemented
"very well", four subprojects "well", four subprojects "at medium quality", and three subprojects "poorly".


Sub-Component A2: Pilot Projects

Under sub-component A2, 10 pilot projects were carried out, of which nine were implemented by local
governments with support from the EA, and one was implemented by the Institute of Technology Bandung
(ITB). Expandability, sustainability and replicability were the crucial aspects considered and tested in
these pilot projects. The pilot projects were essentially designed by central government and covered four
main topics: (a) participatory budgeting; (b) improving local government performance through a public
complaint system and information disclosure; (c) simplifying the permit issuance system; and (d) preparing
a set of local government performance indicators (carried out by ITB). The achievements of these pilot
projects are marginally satisfactory.

The pilot project for participatory budgeting, executed by the local governments of Kupang and Bandar
Lampung, attained its objective. Both local governments have issued local government regulations
providing the legal basis for preparing their local budgets in a more participatory, transparent, and
accountable manner, making the innovations' sustainability likely. Since no complex techniques or
organizational arrangements are involved, they are also easily replicable. In fact, the decree of the Minister
of Home Affairs ("Kepmendagri") No. 29/2002 and National Act No. 17/2002 determine modalities for
participatory preparation of local budgets that are similar to the innovations developed by these two
municipalities.

Three local governments undertook to develop a public complaints handling system, but only one of these
sub-projects attained its objective of managing and following up on public complaints. Tarakan's local
government executed a system of public disclosure of information by developing a computer-based
information system that is user friendly and easily accessible to the public. The system is based on a
computer network that comprises all line agencies in the municipality. In Surabaya, a similar system was



                                                      - 6 -

established, but it is not regularly updated, and is so far not optimally utilized, due to a lack of public
sensitization, and will therefore require additional effort to become successful, sustainable, and replicable.
The system worked well at municipality level only, but its expansion down to subdistrict level created
problems, such as a shortage of competent and dedicated staff , and technical problems in establishing an
expanded computer network. This subproject also demonstrated that sustainability can be jeopardized if the
subproject is not clearly anchored within the appropriate organization . 8



Two of the three subprojects aiming at a establishing a simplified, one-roof permit issuance system failed to
attain their objectives, due to internal local government reorganizations and a lack of internal coordination
among agencies. However, Sukoharjo succeeded in developing a more efficient permit issuance system,
making its service operational and sustainable. Sukoharjo's approach has inspired numerous local
governments in East Java, Bali, and several provinces of Kalimantan to strive for replication . Success has
                                                                                                  9


been variable. It seems that, in terms of institutional development, the one-roof permit issuance system
developed under MIP, is more advanced than the systems tried in these other provinces. It also seems that
the political environment in the municipalities participating in MIP was more conducive to reform than in
the other areas. Generally, both in MIP and in these three regions, only local governments with a strong
collective commitment are likely have successful one-roof permit systems.

It is planned that the experiences from the pilots under subcomponent A2, will, after some additional work,
be incorporated into proposed Urban Sector Development and Reform Project (USDRP, FY05) and the
Initiatives for Local Government Reform Project (ILGRP, FY04) . These projects, currently being
                                                                    10


prepared for Bank financing, will promote local government efforts to carry out reforms in a much broader
sense to improve public service delivery, including participation, transparency, financial management and
procurement, and will incorporate a City Performance Rating System using the ITB performance
indicators.

Component B: Institution Building

This component envisaged: (a) to strengthen the capacity of the PMU in project administration,
supervision, and monitoring; (b) to carry out workshops and dissemination activities relating to successful
innovation projects; (c) to carry out training of selected local government staff to enhance efficiency; and
(d) to implement a program of awards of excellence for municipal innovation projects. The component was
largely implemented according to planm and its achievements are satisfactory. This component eventually
was reallocated more Loan funds than originally foreseen.

MoHA Capacity. The PMU's capacities in project administration, supervision, and monitoring were
strengthened significantly. This was MoHA's first Bank-funded project, and the PUOD had virtually no
staff experienced in guiding and administering such a project. Following implementation of MIP, staff with
such skills and experience are now available, strengthening its qualifications for future, similar projects.
The PUM is now bettter able to guide local governments on procurement and financial procedures, and
focueses supervision not only on administrative matters but also on monitoring and evaluation of subproject
outputs and effectiveness. The envisaged establishment of a sophisticated Management Information
System (MIS), however, turned out to be unfeasible because of the technical difficulties of connecting
computers permanently over such long distances, of funding the telecommunication costs from local
government budgets, and of human resource constraints.

Dissemination of Project Experiences. Five workshops were conducted, focusing on information exchange
between the local governments involved in the project, and on transfering experiences from participating to
non-participating local governments, to the EA and to selected provincial governments for further
dissemination. (Annex 13 provides more details.) For the further dissemination of project experiences, the
project established a new website , which displays regularly updated information, and it began publishing a
                                    11




                                                       - 7 -

newsletter of which 13 editions have appeared so far. Still, the contents of the website as well as the
newsletters focus very much on input and activity reporting, rather than on outcomes, conclusions, and
lessons learned. In that way, they still do not fully support the objective of disseminating the experiences
gained from the project's innovations. Recognizing this, the EA has made available resources to improve
and update the website after the end of the project proper. Also, provincial governments, especially their
planning bodies ("Bappeprop"), will be encouraged to disseminate experiences, especially to
non-participating local governments.

Training of selected local government staff towards efficiency enhancement took place in the form of
in-country training and study trips to eastern Malaysia. In-country training and capacity building began
with support for preparing qualified proposals in 1999. The creative preparation of subproject proposals
that were to be judged and selected on professional merits was a novelty for local governments, after many
years of centralized government, top-down planning, and strict guidelines from above. Training was
continued with courses financial management, procurement and information technology (management
information systems) in 2000 and 2001. In 2002 and 2003, study visits and on-the-job training in several
Malaysian municipalities followed. Details are given in Annex 16.

The award-of-excellence program for municipal innovation projects was implemented in 2003 (see Annex
17 for details). Five local governments received awards which included a study visit to Malaysia and the
                                         12


Philippines. The award was presented by the Minister of Home Affairs personally, which lent a high profile
to the program. Local governments are very enthusiastic about this program and have successfully lobbied
the central government to continue this program.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

As this was not a specific investment loan, NPV and ERR were not calculated in the usual manner. The
PAD states that "because this project is heavy on externalities, experimentation and learning, a quantified
economic analysis would be spurious. The innovations would lead to sustainable improved municipal
management, information and communication; more efficient and effective service delivery with a positive
environmental impact; increased private sector and community participation; increased local empowerment
and transparency....the innovations have high potential returns, both for the public and private sectors".
Many of the innovations under the MIP have only just been completed, and their effects cannot yet be fully
assessed. Many of the benefits may not justify the investment of resources if the assessment of the results is
limited to the pilot projects. Instead, the full justification of the resource investment lies in the fact that the
future replication of these innovations can be done with much less resource inputs and at much lower risk.
In addition, many of the benefits expected for the future are intangible and non-monetary in nature. For
these reasons, the ERR was not calculated.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

As this was not a specific investment loan, the FRR was not calculated in the usual manner. A very limited
analysis, as envisaged in the PAD, is given in Annex 19. The analysis shows that some subprojects may
achieve a FIRR of 12% or more, whilst others may show a much lower or even negative FIRR.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact achieved by the project is rated modest. It is expected that some of
                                                                  13


these impacts may take some time to take root, which is normal for an innovations project. The project was
identified based on the assumption of a pre-existing political will to innovate, including institutionally. The
project was to reinforce this political will through: (a) guidance from the PMU; (b) regular Bank
supervision; (c) the exchange of experiences in workshops; (d) study tours and on-the-job training abroad;



                                                        - 8 -

(e) regular circulation of a newsletter; and (f) the website. In the implementation of these activities, the
project lived up to expectations and achieved several substantial changes. However, the project design did
not include a mechanism to test and verify the continued existence of the necessary political will.

The institutional development impacts cover various fields. In some cases, legal regulations were issued,
refined or elaborated, e.g., the mayor of Bogor issued a decree that regulates staffing and work modalities
of the automatic information system for the public, including sensitization activities financed from the local
government's own resources in FY03, and the local government of Bandar Lampung issued a regional
regulation ("Peraturan Daerah") for a participatory preparation mechanism related to the regional budget.


During implementation, budgeting improved in many local governments, as they, as well as local
parliaments, were beginning to realize that appropriate budgeting for municipal facilities and services is in
the interest of their own constituencies, whereas in earlier years they used to see the provision of local
counterpart funds for a project only as an inevitable precondition to obtain grants or loan funds.

As a result of involvement in the project, human resources at local and central level were developed and
strengthened. Previously lacking skills in the handling a Bank-funded project have since been developed,
and this will strengthen the EA as well as participating local governments in the handling of similar projects
in the future. Furthermore, in many cases, mindsets changed from a rather project administration-oriented
attitude toward a development-oriented attitude, focusing on subproject substance, benefits and
sustainability, rather than on mere implementation procedures. Lastly, there is now a growing awareness
that innovation is an essential basic paradigm of development, that sustained political will to support
ongoing innovation is more important than the technical outcome of a particular sub-project, and that
central government should continue to foster and facilitate ongoing innovation efforts.

At the same however, there were also cases where institutional development impact was achieved only with
great difficulties, with great delays, or not at all. In Denpasar, a significant institutional development
impact was achieved only very slowly. In Kabupaten Banjar and in Kabupaten Batanghari, the idea of
undertaking major changes in the institutional set-up of market management and creating self-financing
markets encountered considerable resistance from local government units with vested interests which
possibly included financial interests. In Majalengka, the intended institutional development impact on newly
founded cooperatives failed to materialize. In Kota Bandung, the entire subproject (introduction of an
Ombudsman system) had to be cancelled because of political resistance from within the bureaucracy. (See
annex 18 for further details.)

Specific Project Impacts

Newsletter. The direct impact of circulating the project newsletter is difficult to measure, in the absence of
a mechanism providng direct feedback. The newsletter may not always have reached all intended recipients,
especially not all heads of all local governments.

Workshops. The project interviewed the participants of each workshop in an effort to determine the impact
of the workshops. Participants from participating as well as from non-participating governments expressed
a desire to try to replicate some innovations, or even to develop further innovations of their own. The
enhanced networking between local governments also spawned the desire for study visits (to study
successful innovations like the biogas production from cattle manure in Kabupaten Semarang or the
poverty alleviation program in Kabupaten Gianyar). Local governments expressed their desire to launch an
"MIP" of their own, funded from their own resources.

Website. The website has so far provided information mainly on the implementation of the MIP, and its
institutional development impacts have therefore been modest. Even so, this communication platform has
the potential to become the main vehicle for dissemination of experiences and lessons and its main impact


                                                         - 9 -

may very well be yet to come.

Overseas On-the-job Training. The overseas on-the-job training had a significant institutional development
impact: the participants are very impressed and motivated by the innovations they saw in Malaysia and the
Philippines, and many of them are now trying to implement similar improvements of their own, despite the
existing bureaucratic obstacles. It is noteworthy that some of the 12 additional sub-project proposals
prepared in 2003 were spawned by that training activity.

Awards-of-exellence Program. The awards-of-exellence program had a significant impact. Local
government representatives participating in the fifth workshop where the awards were announced,
expressed their hope that this program would continue. Obviously the program is an effective vehicle to
encourage local governments to be more ambitious in undertaking innovations even without external
funding. The comparative study (to Penang in Malaysia and Naga City in the Philippines), offered as a
reward for the five winning local governments, was appreciated by the 20 participants and instilled a sense
of pride in them. Within the MoHA, too, there is a sense of success and a will to follow up on the results of
the MIP.

Impacts Affecting Individual Local Government Units

Local governments elevated the organizational status of several local government units concerned with the
project, e.g., the Permit Issuing Office ("UPT") in Kota Malang or the public library in Wonosobo.
Consequently, they have much more authority to design and implement their own policies and plans. Also,
a dedicated budget can clearly be allocated to such an institution, and the budgeted funds cannot easily be
diverted from their intended use, as is the case where an implementing agency is merely a technical sub-unit
of another, bigger line agency.

Cooperation between Local Government Units

The project facilitated effective cooperation between different units of local governments, e.g., in Gianyar
where an office for the coordination of all poverty alleviation programs had legally existed since 1997 on
the basis of a Regent's Decree. However, only during its participation in the MIP did the office become an
effective catalyst for cooperation between the different local government units responsible for various
programs, providing support to the poor in various forms (skills training, working capital, small equipment,
etc.)

Cooperation between Local Government Units and Non-Government Entities

The project also facilitated the initiation of effective cooperation models between local government units
and non-government entities. In Bondowoso, local government had originally planned the construction of a
swimming pool outside of town, but during the project it decided instead to establish a much larger
multi-functional recreation park, comprising hiking trails and a campground in the surrounding forest
which is managed by the state-owned forestry company Perhutani and an angling lake in the territory of the
adjacent village. The local government signed two legal agreements with Perhutani and with the relevant
village administration for an integrated management model of this multi-functional recreation park.

In Kudus, an old railway track was used illegally by traders who were tolerated by the railway authority in
a somewhat intransparent manner. Under the project, the local government facilitated the formation of a
traders' association ("Paguyuban"), and the conclusion of a clear contractual agreement between the
railway authority and that association. As a result, under conditions of secure land tenure, the traders have
replaced the previous makeshift structures with shophouses.

In Jepara, the local government developed a composting activity for organic waste, but also established a
cooperative with several high schools that use the composting plant for educational purposes. The local
government of Sidoarjo has developed its public library and is cooperating with a fast-food chain and


                                                       - 10 -

several schools that now utilize and support the library. The local government of Sukabumi initiated a
cattle-fattening activity, joining forces with a farmers' cooperative.

In Situbondo, the local government built a facility for improved fish processing, to replace the traditional
production of Ikan Pindang, to expand the market for processed fish. Eventually, this facility failed to
replace the traditional production method with the local cooperative. Instead, the new processing method
provided by this facility is a new production line to be managed by another cooperative of fishermen. Its
produce is to be marketed through cooperation agreements between that cooperative and a commercial food
distributor to Singapore. That distributor will also, with initially high intensity, supervise the production
process, in order to provide the quality assurance that is necessary for sustained operation.

Cooperation between Different Local Governments

Banjarnegara's local government originally proposed a project to better manage the Dieng Plateau, a tourist
destination area which also comprises territory adjacent to Wonosobo. During the project, the idea arose
that this tourism-oriented area development project would be better carried out by both local governments
jointly, and they have now signed an agreement for the joint long-term management of that area. This
agreement was endorsed by the provincial governor, and the provincial government is now supporting the
efforts of the two local governments through the construction of an additional access road. The Ministry of
Culture and Tourism and the Bali Tourism Board are also interested in working together with Banjarnegara
to promote tourism to the Dieng Plateau after observing the improved management of the area.

Conclusion

The above examples demonstrate that the project has achieved significant innovations in the institutional
and organizational field. Further institutional development impacts can be expected in such fields as rules
and regulations, public private partnerships/cooperation, and more client-responsive municipal
management.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Economic Crisis/Price Inflation. When the project was launched in mid-1999, the most immediate effects
of Indonesia's economic crisis of 1997 and 1998 were already over. However, the tentative subproject
budgets that formed the basis of costs in the PAD had been prepared using the unit prices of early 1998,
and the extraordinary domestic price inflation of 1998 (approximately 80%) had made all cost estimates
obsolete by mid-1999. This required adjustments in order to remain within the originally agreed project cost
ceiling, and the need for these adjustments contributed to a substantial delay in the implementation of many
subprojects. Also, in the wake of the crisis and the resulting surge in unemployment, expenditures to
combat poverty and to create new jobs were seen as more pressing than expenditures for innovations in
municipal management.

Political Difficulties. Political instability dominated during much of the life of the project and caused
implementation delays. Difficulties included the formation of a new government, following the presidential
elections in October 1999, the restructuring of the MoHA in April 2000, the formation of yet another
government after the impeachment and dismissal of the President in July 2001, and another restructuring of
the MoHA in 2002. These political developments hampered the effectiveness of the EA and the PMU for
considerable periods.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Obviously, the major supporting factor behind the project's successes was GOI's emphatic political drive



                                                      - 11 -

toward decentralization, as manifested in Acts No. 22/1999 and No. 25/1999, which were implemented
with effect from January 1, 2001. However, the implementation of the decentralization policy lead initially
to significant disruptions, as local governments underwent often quite fundamental reorganizations, with
leadership changes, dissolution of established work units, tendering committees, and established work
procedures. Also, these reorganizations caused delays in allocating local budget contributions to the
project, and new work mechanisms for procurement, accounting, and reporting had to be developed. The
repeated reshuffling and restructuring of GOI caused regrettable effects on the PMU whose staff, although
gaining considerably in competence, did not always find conducive conditions for effective work.

The extraordinary domestic inflation observed in 1998 and the simultaneous decrease of tax revenue as a
result of the contraction of the economy made budgeting at the central and local levels more difficult.
Budgeting difficulties, in turn, caused serioius delays in releasing counterpart funds through DA-DPD
grant funds from central government to local governments. This was a generic problem that affected all
Bank-assisted projects in Indonesia. The Bank's country director urged MoF to expedite the release of
counterpart funds, but substantial disturbances to project work could not be avoided.

Another reason for delays in releasing funds was the project's unusual funds channeling mechanism,
directly from the MoF to the subproject managers (instead of sending funds straight to the regional treasury
as was the norm), with an unusually high degree of disbursement authority for the subproject manager.
(This innovation was described in section 4.1 above.) These changes constituted valuable innovations
within the MoF but they disrupted project progress in the short term. The delayed release of funds from
central government also caused problems at local level, and central government had to urge the
participating local governments to carry forward their counterpart budgets, although many local
governments had already become disillusioned with the project and encountered problems in obtaining the
necessary political support from local parliaments.

For some time, the Bank was concerned about the performance of the advisory consultant to the PMU,
which may have been related to the EA's lack of experience in handling technical assistance assignments.
The consultant's performance improved starting in 2002 but it was not possible to provide all the
specialized expertise that would theoretically be required to cover the wide sectoral range of subprojects.
The establishment of a MIS for the project was originally planned, but it was never completed. The Bank
and later also the EA recognized that this plan for a sophisticated MIS was not feasible, and the plan was
dropped. Instead, the EA and the Bank conducted information collection and monitoring through a less
formalized approach by telecommunication.

It may remain debatable whether the wide sectoral spectrum of subprojects could or should have been
avoided, given the fact that neither the PMU nor all local governments possessed the highly specialized
human resources that would have been desirable to steer these innovation efforts. Nevertheless, the project
was meant to be demand driven, and it was an inevitable implication that the innovations touched fields in
which government, at any level, had not yet developed fully competent human resources.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The rather protracted implementation was not a result of delayed release of funds by central government
only, but also a consequence of sluggish implementation on the part of some local governments. The
reorganization of local governments in early 2001 could have been done more speedily, and local
governments were sometimes slow in accepting and implementing the Bank's procurement procedures.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Annex 2 shows the project costs by component at appraisal at $7.2 million and at completion at $7.68



                                                     - 12 -

million. At appraisal, $6.45 million was to be spent on innovative subprojects, while the actual cost is
estimated at $6.41 million. Institutional development was estimated at $0.7 million, while at completion,
                                                         14


$1.22 million is estimated. The Bank disbursed $4.725 million and the counterpart contribution is
estimated at $2.96 million. Local governments have, on the average, contributed 42.75% of the monitored
project cost under Part A, which is significantly more than the 25% which the PAD had set as the minimum
threshold. Moreover, many local governments have made available substantial additional resources, such as
funds from local government budgets or contributions in kind. These resources were not included in the
original project plans and were therefore not monitored by the project accounting system.

As discussed earlier, the project introduced a new mechanism for channeling project funds. Under this
mechanism, the funds were to be disbursed in three tranches: 40% as advance payment; 40% upon
sufficient project progress and corresponding disbursement; and the last 20% upon satisfactory completion
of the subproject. These changes were advocated by the EA and by the Bank with the intention of
accelerating subproject start-up and facilitating subproject implementation, by expediting procurement and
decentralizing fund management. However, the real effect was actually the opposite, namely a considerable
delay in subproject start-up and implementation. MoF and KPKN officials were initially reluctant to accept
and implement this new model, as it appeared to blur responsibilities and accountabilities. Substantial
unexpected efforts by the EA and by the Bank were required for clarifying and lobbying the responsible
officials in the MoF and in the treasury offices. The EA and the Bank had to make substantial unexpected
efforts to clarify this model and lobbying the responsible MoF and treasury officials. Even so, the approval
of the SPABP/DA-DPD budgets and the issuing of the corresponding Circular Letters was very much
delayed, causing considerable delays in subproject start-up.

The new fund channeling mechanism caused problems in local governments as well. Project and subproject
managers had been used to the old mechanism and were not immediately ready to accept their new,
additional responsibilities and the corresponding new modalities in the awarding and implementing of
contracts. They often felt insecure about the implications of the new regulations and preferred to seek
reassurance before proceeding. The EA, Bank and MoF had to provide additional guidance and reassurance
to the subproject managers. It should have been anticipated during the project preparation stage that such
major changes to the established fund channeling mechanisms would cause initial confusion and
uncertainty, and that additional and intensive guidance and training would be required, preferably before
actual implementation began.

With these various factors combined, project implementation was seriously delayed, and the Loan closing
date had to be extended, first from December 31, 2001 to December 31, 2002, and once more to June 30,
2003. The combined effects of these varioius underlying factors could not have been foreseen at appraisal.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project's overall sustainability is rated as likely. The Bank and the EA agree that sustainability in the
context of this particular project does not simply mean the sustained operation of a physical facility, or the
sustained application of a new work approach. Instead, it means the sustained willingness to support the
continuous dynamics of innovation. In this context, "sustainability" will also include an appropriate
balance between continuity and innovation, avoiding the extremes of conceptual stagnation or hectic
changes and excessive inconsistency.

With regard to objective (1), a number of subprojects appear to have been technically unsuccessful, and/or
their sustainability seems unlikely because the intended beneficiaries may not have responded to the project
with the enthusiasm anticipated. In some local governments, the subprojects were supported by too few


                                                      - 13 -

persons within the responsible agency. In other local governments, the initial political support decreased
when a regent or mayor was replaced. In any case, it was never envisaged that this project would be
technically successful and sustainable. On the contrary, the project design had obviously included the risk
that a significant percentage of innovations, undertaken as trials, would turn out to be impractical or
otherwise technically not sustainable. The successful innovations, which form a large part of all municipal
innovations undertaken in this project, are likely to be sustainable because they originated from within the
local governments and enjoy sufficient support from political leaders and civil servants who are committed
to serving the public. Experiences that were negative in the technical sense must be made "sustainable" by
proper documentation so that mistakes are not repeated. An overview of successful, sustainable, and
replicable subprojects is given in Annex 20.

More details regarding the sustainability rating of each subproject, and the reasons for such rating, are
shown in Annex 12. From there it is evident that some subprojects have technically failed, or will probably
not be sustainable, e.g. where typical private sector activities like the production and commercial
distribution of tradable commodities (compost, plastic granulate, silk, or weaving products) were handled
by government agencies or by hurriedly established cooperatives. Annex 18 contains several, more
intensive case studies, including one which shows that the management of revolving funds (e.g. for a
savings-and-credit association) is likely to fail unless very thorough preparations have been made.

With regard to objective (2), it has to be appreciated that the EA made available funds for another
project-related workshop which was held in October 2003, i.e., nearly four months after Loan closing.
Also, central government is making available funds to further improve and update the project's website that
was created to disseminate the outcomes of MIP's innovations. This reflects GOI's awareness that
significant, continuous efforts are required to ensure that the various successes of the MIP subprojects do
not remain isolated experiences but become part of a much wider learning process. Only in this way can the
successes of the MIP subprojects become replicable, which is the ultimate goal of the project.

With regard to objective (3), the changes of central government practices initiated by the project are
consistent with the declared policy of GOI and are therefore likely to be lasting. There are likely to be more
such changes in central government practices which will point in the same direction and reinforce the
changes initiated by the project, bearing in mind that Act No. 22/1999 has clearly made local governments
responsible for the delivery of municipal services. One strong indication of sustainability is central
government's declared intention to continue the award-of-excellence program initiated under the project
(see also Annex 17).

Finally, a number of the changes in central government practices affecting municipalities are being
incorporated in prospective new projects like the proposed USDRP (FY05), being prepared by the Ministry
of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure. Important elements will be initiatives originating from local
level, competition between local governments, and fair and transparent selection mechanisms. The Project
promotes governance reforms including transparency, participation, financial management and
procurement, some of which were initiated in MIP. Generally, MoHA is beginning to change its ways in
dealing with local governments, and other ministries are doing the same.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Not applicable

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in project identification is rated as highly satisfactory. The project was identified


                                                      - 14 -

and designed at an optimum time, when Indonesia's decentralization policy was gathering maximum
momentum. Its strategic direction was totally consistent with GOI policy and the Bank's CAS. The project
set the stage for stimulating creativity in an environment of healthy competition, under emerging framework
conditions of significantly increased regional autonomy, administrative authority, and political power. The
definition of the project's principal objectives was very thought-out, logical, comprehensive, appropriate,
and timely. During project identification and preparation there was close interaction with the Ford
Foundation (Governance Section) and with USAID (the CLEAN Project).

The Bank's performance in preparation is rated as marginally satisfactory. The Bank team combined HQ
staff and World Bank Office Jakarta (WBOJ) staff with an appropriate mix of skills. Input from WBOJ
staff was helpful in providing focus during preparation. A short-term consultant supported the EA because
it was still rather weak at that time. The Bank helped design a mechanism for a high degree of active
involvement of local governments, rather than a rigid, top-down project preparation mechanism. During
project preparation, and at PUOD's invitation, more than 400 proposals were submitted by local
governments. These were screened by an independent panel consisting of eight experts and a "reduced
                                                                                          15


longlist of proposals" was prepared . The PAD(Annex 4) lists 24 proposals as "selected", but one of them
                                      16


was deleted later.

On the other hand, a significant shortcoming of project preparation is that it failed to even test, let alone
verify, the implicit assumption that there was, in all local governments, a universal political will to put the
objective of serving the public above all else, although it must have been clear that only on this basis could
the envisaged innovations bear fruit and become sustainable. Another shortcoming is the lack of attention
paid to, and the lack of resources provided for, the creation of a comprehensive documentation platform for
the outcomes of the various innovation and pilot projects. It should have been realized that without an
easily accessible and comprehensive documentation, the learning effects of the innovation and pilot projects
cannot provide a head start for other local governments that would wish to embark on similar endeavors.
Similarly, the objective of improving central government practices affecting municipalities was not
followed up consistently during project preparation. A minor deficiency is the absence of the required
implementation guidelines from the Project Implementation Plan.

The Bank's performance in appraisal is rated as satisfactory. The appraisal and negotiation team consisted
of a mix of HQ and WBOJ staff, although it may have been better to include in the appraisal team more
than one person with expertise in decentralization, municipal innovations, and municipal management in
Indonesia (on the other hand, the appraisal team included no less than three procurement and disbursement
specialists). The incorporation of more expertise on decentralization and municipal management may have
helped in keeping the project components more focused on the objectives. Also, this may have lead to a
more adequate allocation of resources to activities related to project objectives Nos. (2) and (3).

It was certainly justified that the appraisal team focused its attention on assessing the seriousness and
genuine commitment to reform and innovation in the prospective EA and in the participating local
governments. However, more attention could have been paid to assessing the factual implementation
capacities of these institutions. The prospective EA and many of the participating local governments had no
experience in implementing a loan-funded project, and their weaknesses were aggravated by the
uncertainties of a new national government and a new decentralization policy. All this resulted in
significant shortcomings during implementation, especially in procurement. Given these obvious facts, the
consultant team to the EA should have included a procurement specialist.

The appraisal team assessed correctly the need for adequate resources for supervision, given the complexity
of the project and the various risks caused by the project's innovative and experimental nature, by the wide
geographical scope, and by the sectoral diversity of the envisaged sub-projects. General relevant lessons
learned from previous, similar projects were not available to any significant degree at the time of appraisal.



                                                      - 15 -

The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was straightforward, and the performance indicators were adequate
and easy to measure. However, the PIP was clearly designed under the assumption that there were adequate
institutional capacities within the EA and the participating local governments which was not entirely
correct.

The selection of a LIL as the lending instrument was correct, given the nature, approach and design of the
project. Consideration of the Bank's safeguard policies was adequate, since the project was not expected to
require significant land acquisition and resettlement or to have significant negative impacts on the
environment or on certain social groups.

Overall, the Bank's performance in lending was satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's performance in supervision is rated satisfactory. Despite the project's broad geographical
scope, the Bank conducted regular supervision missions to all locations . Still, the allocation of resources
                                                                           17


for supervision remained below the appraisal level (PAD, para D.5), namely standard supervision
resources, despite the small Loan amount. The project was supervised twice a year, whereas the PAD had
envisaged four a year.

The first supervision mission was conducted jointly by WBOJ staff and by HQ staff, with HQ task team
leader leading the mission. In late 1999, task team leadership was rather abruptly handed over to a WBOJ
staff member who had taken part in preparation and appraisal, but who had no prior experience in task
team leadership. At handover, the implementation guidelines by the EA and GOI funds were not yet
available, and the advisory consultant to the EA had not yet fully mobilized.

Subsequent supervision missions were carried out by WBOJ staff with support from Indonesia-based HQ
staff and consultants. The missions included specialists for institutional development, community
development and cultural heritage, procurement, environment, and financial management. Attention to
financial management and procurement was concentrated in the early phases of the project. The Bank
varied the composition of the supervision teams, in an effort to cover to the extent possible the wide
sectoral range of subprojects (see Annex 4 for details), but full technical expertise to supervise each and
every subproject was not available. Even so, the Bank provided an adequate degree of technical guidance
to the EA and the implementing agencies. Each supervision mission split into two groups and most
missions lasted at least four weeks. Between formal missions, the Bank conducted regular monitoring
through telecommunication and short visits. Maintaining regular contact allowed the Bank to effectively
monitor and reinforce the commitment level of leaders and project managers through the various
reorganizations.

The missions reminded all stakeholders, especially the EA, the MoF, and Bappenas, of their commitments
under the Loan Agreement, and these reminders were fairly effective. Bank management fully supported the
task team leader in urging the Indonesian agencies to expedite implementation, after serious delays had
occurred. For example, with regard to the counterpart fund delays, the Bank's country director urged the
MoF to expedite the fund release for the whole Indonesia portfolio. In project specific areas, the Bank
urged the EA to lobby MoF for the release of funds. (The Bank's aide memoires contain more details.)

Wherever subprojects showed poor progress, the frequency of visits and other forms of monitoring was
increased. When visiting local governments, especially those whose subprojects showed slow progress, the
missions insisted on seeing political leaders and decision makers (regents, mayors, or at least their chief
officers). This encouraged them to pay very serious attention to their subprojects. Where required, the
missions pointed to more successful subproject implementation in other local governments, and this
encouraged the less well performing local governments to increase their efforts. Where security concerns


                                                     - 16 -

did not permit field visits, monitoring was conducted through telecommunication, and project managers
were invited to Jakarta to discuss implementation progress and to discuss ways to address the observed
shortcomings. Where adequate, the MIP supervision missions were combined with missions in the context
of other projects .
                  18



The missions have significantly contributed to various improvements. The motivation and commitment of
political leaders and responsible project officers was strengthened; advice from the Bank developed human
resources and capacities by enhancing the vision, work approach, and self-confidence of project staff; and
local governments began to perceive the Bank not only as a source of funds but also as a source of advice
and guidance on the substance of the subprojects (this is manifested in continuing requests for visits and
other forms of guidance). While many local governments had originally perceived the Loan covenants and
other conditionalities as mere burdens to their activities, they gradually began to understand the
significance and importance of these conditionalities, their impact on institutional development within local
governments, and the benefit for the subprojects and their intended beneficiaries.

Even so, the Bank did not succeed in convincing all local governments to document the substance of their
subprojects and the elements of innovation in them with the desirable comprehensiveness. Most subproject
implementation reports still focus heavily on aspects of procurement, disbursement, and technical output
achievement. Stronger involvement of HQ staff or expatriate staff might have helped lend weight to the
Bank team's suggestions and conclusions in the eyes of local government authorities.

For the mid-term review, a more complete mission team was fielded. Bappenas and the MoF participated
more intensively in the mid-term review than in regular supervision missions. The observed delays and
other problems were frankly addressed, and deadlines were set. The project mid-term review triggered
more emphatic efforts on the part of the EA, as manifested in a doubling of the staff involved in the project
(from 5 to 10 persons), in improved observation of the jointly prepared action plan, and in a reshuffle of the
advisory consultant team staff which the Bank had long suggested. This resulted in accelerated
implementation of those components for which the EA had prime responsibility and which had encountered
serious delays.

The task of monitoring and supervision was made more difficult by the absence of a regional PMU or other
coordination unit at provincial level. This was a shortcoming that future, similar projects should avoid.
Also, the "institutional distance" between the PMU within the EA and the subproject managers within one
or another local government agency was too great, forcing the Bank to serve as a go-between at times.
However at the same time, this extensive contact with local governments built competence, local
knowledge, and experience among WBOJ the national staff, for the benefit of future similar projects.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance in the project is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance in project preparation is rated as marginally satisfactory. The Borrower
cooperated closely with the Bank in the identification and preparation of the project. The selection of
subprojects from more than 400 submitted proposals during the preparation phase was obviously a rather
resource-consuming effort. GOI established an independent panel of eight experts to screen all proposals
                                                                                    19


and to select20 the subprojects for implementation. The selection of subprojects in this manner, and the
allocation of funds on the basis of a competition, were significant innovations in themselves. On the other
hand, too little assistance was extended to local governments in formulating their subproject proposals
during preparation.


                                                     - 17 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Central government's performance in project implementation is rated as marginally satisfactory. The EA
had had no previous experience with Bank-assisted projects and therefore took some time to develop
adequate management capacities. Bappenas and MoF assisted the EA in this respect. Still, the EA took an
unreasonably long time to issue the implementation guidelines for local governments, and this contributed
                                                                21


to serious delays in the release of funds from central government (see section 5.2). This delay, although not
limited to the MIP, was one of the main causes for implementation problems. Central government had been
expected to work mainly toward achieving objectives (2) and (3). Both objectives have been partly
achieved, although progress was slow and some gaps still remain. The EA did not manage to have the
envisaged comprehensive MIS established, and this plan had to be dropped two years into project
implementation. Instead, the EA communicated with the participating local governments and conducted
monitoring mainly through telecommunications.

The Loan covenants were almost always met but considerable delays, especially the annual auditing reports
by BPKP, the annual reports by the project, and the annual project monitoring and evaluation reports. The
quality of the reports was sometimes barely sufficient to meet requirements.

On the other hand, central government is showing a commitment to continue and enhance the efforts made
under the project after Loan closing, and it has made available funds from its own resources. The
government was certainly constrained by its overall capacity, by the ever changing institutional set-up, and
by the wide sectoral and geographical spread of the subprojects. Even so, the EA was fairly responsive to
the Bank's reminders to expedite project implementation, especially after the mid-term review, as
manifested in a doubling of the staff involved in the project, in improved observation of the jointly prepared
action plans, and in a reshuffle of the advisory consultant team staff which the Bank had long suggested.
The advisory consultant to the PMU showed a satisfactory performance only in the last third of the project
implementation period.

The EA also guided the implementing agencies in continuously revising and improving their project
concepts, in order to achieve objective (1).

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The implementing agencies' performance in project implementation is rated marginally satisfactory. This
is an assessment of the average performance of local governments, derived from performance assessments
that cover a fairly wide spectrum, from rather poor to very encouraging. Local governments had been
expected to work mainly toward achieving objective (1), and they have in general performed well,
considering that this project confronted them with many challenges and yet demanded a high degree of
commitment and competence. At the start of the project, many local governments were insufficiently
competent in the preparation of good project designs, and the EA and the Bank had to insist on considerable
improvements. On the other hand, it has to be appreciated that, over time, many mayors/regents and local
parliamentarians paid increasing attention to this project and its activities. Also, it can now be observed
that mindsets within local governments are beginning to change, away from focusing on a project's
disbursements, and more towards its outcomes and benefits.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

With this, the Borrower's overall performance is rated as marginally satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned



                                                    - 18 -

1. The political will of government officials to put the objective of serving the public above all else is
   the most important fundamental element that affects the willingness to innovate and to carry out
   innovation. A municipal innovation project can achieve its objective only in so far as there is political
   will to put the objective of serving the interest of the public above all else. The preparation of a MIP
   cannot simply assume that this political will exists universally in all local governments and in sufficient
   strength. Therefore the design of future MIPs should include mechanisms to test and to verify the
   existence of such political will, and it should pay attention, and allocate resources, to activities to foster
   the will to serve the public. Future projects should be more courageous in tackling this fundamental
   issue and in raising public awareness about its vital importance.

Examples for the existence of strong political will are: Kota Malang (creation of a one-stop permit issuing
   office), Wonosobo (improved services of the municipal library), Kabupaten Cianjur (improved
   organization of the services of the municipal hospital), and Boyolali (improved water utility
   management through establishment of a subscriber advisory board).

2. Creating an enabling environment and a degree of freedom that are conducive for empowering
   local institutions and officials to initiate and carry out innovations is a pre-condition and more
   effective than the provision of mere technical skills and the introduction of new innovative
   approaches. The main thrust of a MIP must be to foster a will to innovate, especially at local
   government level, to foster awareness and consciousness, and to create an enabling environment for
   empowering local institutions to carry out innovations; this is more important than the technical result
   of one or the other particular innovation.

Examples: The subproject in Kota Gorontalo enjoyed full support from the Mayor and his key staff, after
   the UNDP project "BUILD" laid the groundwork; the subproject in Gianyar (integrated poverty
   alleviation measures) had the support of the Regent and had an established administrative unit which
   had the legal brief and the Regent's authorization to plan and manage coordinated poverty alleviation
   programs. On the other hand, the subproject in Kota Bandung (establishment of an ombudsman
   system), despite initial strong support from the Mayor, was increasingly hampered by political
   resistance from within local parliament (DPRD) which led to the cancellation of the subproject. The
   subproject in Kota Padang (performance improvement of the muncipal fire brigade) could have been
   more successful with stronger political support from the Mayor and local parliament.

3. Part of the the conducive environment needed for successful innovations are flexible procedures
   that allow the changes that may be required for subproject implementation. By definition,
   innovation projects may require course corrections and adjustments much more frequently than
   standard projects; therefore, innovation projects should be given the greatest possible discretion to
   change implementation details and related administrative documents quickly and easily. This includes
   flexible rules for procurement such as those given by the EA which accommodate new approaches,
   allow stronger involvement of the stakeholders, and expedite subproject implementation.

Examples: In Kabupaten Sidoarjo (municipal library development project), the proposed book purchases
   were reduced in favor of VCDs which are more attractive to young people; local government Jepara
   procured cattle to increase the volume of organic material for composting. Simplified procurement (i.e.,
   international shopping or local shopping) is preferable for small contracts (e.g. in the Banjarnegara
   subproject for craftsmen training and tourism promotion, and in the Kabupaten Semarang subproject
   for biogas production from cattle manure).

4. The personal commitment of political leaders and the personal integrity of the managers
   concerned with an innovation effort are crucial for its success, validity, relevance and
   sustainability; the personal ability to network, to synchronize the working objectives of different



                                                     - 19 -

   units, and to build team spirit are of no lesser importance.

Examples: In the subprojects in Kota Sukabumi, Banjarmasin, and in Kabupaten Wonosobo, Gianyar,
   Banjarmasin, Cianjur, and Alor, the personal commitment of the Mayors and Regents as well as of the
   subproject managers expedited the subproject implementation and improved their chances of success
   and eventual sustainability.

5. Even though central government had over many decades grown accustomed to a top-down, more
   instructive management style, there was a readiness to change these working mechanisms in favor
   of a more facilitating work style. The government accepted the selection of subprojects by a panel of
   independent experts, rather than by government bureaucrats, and the MoF approved the application of
   an innovative fund channeling mechanism.

6. Competition, transparency and recognition turned out to be effective vehicles to promote local
   government willingness to innovate; an additional supporting factor was the central government
   grants which reduced the financial risk of innovating for local governments. Local government
   enthusiasm in implementation, monitoring, and in preparing further project proposals was stimulated
   by the awareness that subprojects are selected on professional merits, rather than on the basis of
   personal connections to bureaucrats at higher level government agencies; this was supported by the
   known existence of the awards-of-excellence program.

7. There is a need to enhance the capacity of central government to better manage Bank-supported
   projects, particularly those that support innovations with a wide geographical distribution and
   sectoral variety of subprojects. Given the fact that the EA had no prior experience with Bank-funded
   projects and that it faced the challenge of pushing for changes, and given the multitude, geographical
   spread, and sectoral diversity of the subprojects, a much stronger consultant team for the PMU should
   have been provided. In this project, the EA gradually developed its project management capacity as a
   result of the support rendered by Bank staff and the advisory consultant. The establishment of a
   regional PMU or other coordination unit at provincial level would help reduce the great "institutional
   distance" between the PMU within the EA at the central government and the subproject managers
   within the local government and would facilitate EA and Bank supervision.

8. Adequate consultation with the ultimate subproject beneficiaries is one of the most important
   keys for a subproject's success and sustainability; relying instead on the perception of the
   beneficiaries' needs by government agencies may lead to an unsuitable subproject design.
   Intensive consultation with all stakeholders, especially with the intended beneficiaries, is very important
   right from the start, as it helps minimize the later need for adjustments, and helps increase the chances
   of a project's sustainability. This includes the fundamental design and the fundamentals of
   organization (e.g. a project whose design speculates on heavy involvement of a cooperative-like entity
   may not be feasible unless it is absolutely clear that the beneficiaries are genuinely interested in
   forming and maintaining such an entity).

Examples: In Majalengka (waste composting and recycling, see also Annex 18) and in Sikka (improved
   marketing of traditional weaving products) subprojects failed because they had wrongly assumed the
   feasibility of establishing cooperatives to run the innovative systems, and the subproject in Kota
   Semarang (rehabilitation of historical city center) showed poor success because it had not sufficiently
   involved the building owners as the main stakeholders. On the other hand, the subprojects in
   Wonosobo (improved services of municipal library) and in Kabupaten Semarang (biogas production
   from cattle manure) succeeded because of the strong involvement of the main actors and main
   beneficiaries.

9. The preparation of a project like the MIP, which supports innovations and the change of



                                                     - 20 -

    mindsets, must focus on enhancing capacities and commitment for innovations. An innovation
    project that expects significant changes within government, including central government, must
    anticipate that these innovations might, politically and administratively, not be accepted immediately,
    possibly resulting in start-up delays; all time planning must consider this serious risk.

10. The sense entrepreneurship among local government is still weak, despite the need to carry out
    their subprojects in a more efficient and effective way and to improve their service delivery; this
    is shown by the lack of knowledge and willingness to establish partnership mechanisms with
    communities or private sectors. Many of the innovations aimed at changes in technology and at
    business-like activities (such as the production activities and the commercial distribution of products)
    are in danger of failure when local government units manage them; the chances of success are much
    higher if the private sector is involved. However, such involvement must be based on thought-out,
    clear, and binding contractual arrangements if problems at a later stage are to be avoided.

Examples: This is shown by the subprojects in Kota Jakarta Utara, Pekalongan and Garut, where the
    production of commercial commodities from various waste materials could have been more successful
    if managed in cooperation with private sector entities. A positive example is the subproject in
    Situbondo (fish processing) where production and distribution take place in cooperation with the
    private sector;

11. Institutional adjustments are not feasible unless there is a willingness to take certain risks and
    accept additional costs, at least initially, in the expectation that these changes will pay off in the
    long run. The need for institutional adjustments, or even a thorough institutional restructuring, should
    be examined very carefully.

Examples: The rapid expansion of computer-based systems beyond the pilot phase in local governments
    sometimes led to the collapse of the systems because they were not supported by the required
    organizational arrangements and by the required human resources. Similarly, the establishment of
    supposedly self-financing units (e.g., local markets) mostly failed because it was not consistent with the
    prevailing organizational structures and the related fund management systems.

12. Innovations are more likely to succeed if they imply organizational changes only in one agency or
    unit rather than in several; innovations are more likely to be successfully implementable where
    they are not in conflict with vested interests of segments of the bureaucracy and do not touch
    fields where the collection of fees is a key issue.

Examples of unhampered implementation are the subprojects in Wonosobo and Sidoarjo (improvement of
    the municipal libraries) and in Surabaya (establishment of a computer-based complaints management
    system). Examples of conflicts with vested interests in various local government agencies are the
    establishment of the subprojects in Tangerang (establishment of a one-stop permit issuing office), and
    in Banjar and Batanghari (establishment of self-financing regional markets).

13. The success of subprojects depends not only on the personal qualities (like competence and
    commitment) of the main actors but also on their position within the responsible agencies and on
    an environment that is conducive for innovation and change. The greatest possible care should be
    taken to ensure that projects establish new activities in the correct organizational unit, whose global
    task description fits the planned new activity; negligence in this field can lead to the non-sustainability
    of project activities.

Examples: The subprojects in Gianyar (coordinated poverty alleviation activities) and in Wonosobo
    (improvement of municipal library services) were implemented by dedicated persons posted in the
    correct local government agencies (to whose original brief these activities belong).




                                                      - 21 -

14. Revolving funds cannot work if the groups who receive the funds first are inconsiderate of the
    needs of the other groups who need funding assistance, if repayment terms are not entirely clear,
    and if the fund managers do not enjoy the full trust of the beneficiaries. The establishment of
    revolving funds requires very careful planning; it has to be ensured that there are adequate safeguards
    against all foreseeable fluctuations of the project cash return flows, related to known risks. Also, it has
    to be ensured that the management of such revolving funds is in competent professional hands of high
    integrity.

Examples: A positive example is the subproject in Gianyar (coordinated poverty alleviation activities)
    where the revolving fund functions well despite the negative impact of some force majeur events (the
    Bali bombing and the SARS outbreak). Negative examples are the failed efforts to establish revolving
    funds in Majalengka (waste composting and recycling) and Brebes (onion processing and preservation).

15. Direct communication among local governments, involving real-life examples and experience
    shared among them, is very effective in promoting innovations. The project workshops turned out to
    be very effective vehicles of dissemination, stimulants of interest, and triggers of replications. Central
    and local governments should plan and budget for such workshops in adequate frequency and intensity.

Examples: The training and study tour to Malaysia very effectively stimulated learning and the
    development of the will to copy good examples. The success of this activity can be attributed to
    smooth communication (no language barrier and no fundamental cultural differences) and to the
    perception that techniques and organizational arrangements applied in Malaysia are transferable to
    Indonesia with only minimal adjustments.

16. The improvement of documentation and the dissemination of the lessons learned from the MIP
    are important in promoting a culture of innovation and replication. The documentation of
    innovative attempts and their results needs to be continued and improved in the context of this project,
    and it needs to be considered more carefully in the design and implementation of future, similar
    projects. For this project, the EA must commit itself to continuing the documentation and
    dissemination, e.g., through continuous updating of the website established under the project.

17. The will to innovate is stimulated, and innovations are more likely to be successful, if central and
    local governments share a political commitment to creating an enabling environment and effecting
    the necessary changes of regulations and arrangements. Local governments may lobby central
    government to change basic regulations and arrangements in order to create a more conducive climate
    for innovations. At the same time, central government should demand that local governments
    demonstrate that such changes have really led to improved public services.

Example: Within the MIP, such a shared political commitment is demonstrated by the changes made to the
    fund channeling mechanism (directly to subproject managers with possibility of effecting advance
    payments) and by the Implementation Agreements between the EA and the participating local
    governments which regulated clearly each party's rights and obligations with regard to subproject
    implementation by local governments and supervision by central government.




9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                     - 22 -

The text below was attached to this letter. Quote




                                                 - 23 -

1. Implementation of the IMP

The Municipal Innovations Project (MIP) was conceived at the right time to support Government of
Indonesia in implementing innovations on the management of government, in response to the challenges of
an environment that has changed as a consequence of the spirit of reformation and of the new paradigm of
regional autonomy. However, this became a disadvantage from a project management point of view
because at that time central government as well as local governments were in the middle of organizational
changes and staff transfers that influenced the handling of the project. This led to unavoidable delays in
project administration which required extraordinary efforts from the Executing Agency and the
implementing agencies to create a commitment for the sustainable implementation of the project and the
program with a set of actors that experienced replacements and organizational changes.

On the occasion of the first loan closing date extension which was approved by the World Bank, in line
with an increasingly conducive organization and project manage-ment, the Executing Agency succeeded in
re-establishing the confidence that the MIP was on the right track, so that with the second loan closing date
extension all activities could be completed on time, including the preparation, implementation, and
administrative completion of 12 additional sub-projects in the local governments, which took approximately
four months. To us, this was a very valuable innovation learning experience as it created an effective and
efficient performance shown by the MIP stakeholders who were committed in a transparent and
accountable way, on the part of the Executing Agency, the provincial/local governments, the Ministry of
Finance, and the World Bank.

2.   Continuation of the MIP Program

Establishing institutional innovations is not easy, and the process of evaluating its failure or success takes
time because it depends on influences of the external environment which influences the existence of
continuation. It should therefore be considered that the evaluation of an innovation program will not be
complete if conducted only during the course of the project over a span of 2-3 years. The Ministry of
Homer Affairs as the Executing Agency is very well aware of this matter and will thus, in line with its
functions and duties, continuously facilitate various steps of follow-up to the outcome (lessons learned) of
this MIP, including:

a. Technical guidance was given to local governments in technical management of cooperation with
    foreign donors and in the implementation of projects with foreign assistance; this was done by the
    Center for the Administration of Cooperation (Pusat Administrasi Kerjasama), Secretariate General of
    the Ministry of Home Affairs, an organization at Echelon II level which was formed by the MoHA in
    2001, anticipating the need to upgrade institutional capacities in the management of programs and
    projects with foreign assistance.

b. The process of establishing an ombudsman in Kota Bandung which encountered various problems has
    been followed up by the Directorate General PUM  MoHA, to prepare a wider and more
    comprehensive study as a guideline for the application of an ombudsman system in local government.

c. The result of the local government performance assessment (using performance indicators) in a trial
    conducted in 10 local governments, has been used a material for socialization to 30 provincial
    governments which was conducted by the Directorate General PUM in the context of improving the
    service to the public in provincial/local governments.

d. The "Best Practices" of the MIP are constantly publicized not only through a dedicated website (
    www.inovasipemda.com) but also through various national forums attended by speakers from the MIP,
    such as the Local Governance Forum in Batam and the Cultural Heritage Management Forum in



                                                     - 24 -

    Bogor.

e. The MoHA is currently probing the possibility of implementing a MIP Award Program in the future
    which will hopefully stimulate local governments to continue pursuing innovations.

f.  Objects of local government innovations, as reflected in the hospital management in Kota Cianjur, in
    accordance with public service standards, participatory local budget preparation in Kota Bandar
    Lampung, environmental management in Kota Sukabumi, service to the public in Kota Kendari, Kota
    Bogor, and several other cities, can as a whole be seen a a learning process in satisfactory innovations,
    on the basis of enhancing a commitment that has been created between stakeholders and which steadily
    increases, so that failures as well ass successes can be put to use towards continuing innovations in
    local government management.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 25 -

List of footnotes:

1   Pedoman Perencanaan, Pelaksanaan, dan Pemantauan Pembangunan Daerah (Guidelines for the Planning,
    Implementation, and Monitoring of Regional Development), also known as P5D

2   Project preparation was launched in November 1997 at the request of PUOD (Public Administration and
    Regional Autonomy), following a "Mayors' Seminar" sponsored by the Bank in August 1997.

3   Consisting of US$ 6.45 million for Municipal Innovations Subprojects, US$ 0.70 million for Institutional
    Development, and US$ 0.05 million for Bank Fee

4   This seminar was organized jointly by PUOD, Bappenas, and the Bank; its participants were mayors of
    municipalities from all over the country, and its agenda was institutional innovations.

5   This model was used in this project and is being replicated for the proposed Urban Sector Development
    Reform Program.

6   The PAD uses the term "client-responsive" in conjunction with the term "municipal service improvements",
    leading to the interpretation of "clients" as the general public. On the other hand, local governments often
    formulated what they thought was in the public interest, assuming that proposals from the public were
    unsystematic and poorly thought out.

7 The reports lists as evaluation criteria: skill development, income generation, reduction of unemployment, and
    job creation. It concludes that only the last three criteria were achieved by the project.

8   Responsibility for this subproject was transferred from one agency to another, following the transfer of the
    person who initiated it; finally it fell with the Public Library Office, with no staff to look after it on a sustained
    basis.

9   Replications were actively promoted by the three World Bank projects: Second East Java Urban Development,
    Bali Urban Infrastructure, and Kalimantan Urban Development.

10 The Urban Sector Development Reform Program (USDRP, FY05) and the Initiatives for Local Government
    Reform Program (ILGRP, FY04).

11 www.inovasipemda.com (so far in the Indonesian language only), see also Annex 14.

12 Sleman, Gianyar, Kota Sukabumi, Wonosobo, and Sidoarjo

13 See Annex 12 for more details by subproject.

14 Consisting of US$ 0.25 million for PMU development, US$ 0.05 million for the awards-of-excellence
    program, US$ 0.10 million for workshops, and US$ 0.10 million for training

15 These experts came from a university, a technical institute, the Association of Municipalities, NGOs, a
    chamber of commerce, and from a newspaper.

16 This list was incorporated in the PAD as Attachment of Annex 2.

17 With the exception of locations with considerable security concerns

18 E.g. the Second East Java Urban Development Project, or the Bali Urban Infrastructure Project

19 See also footnote 15.

20 Selection criteria were: (a) maximum grant amount US$100,000, (b) maximum implementation period 2
    years, (c) sufficient local funding, (d) sustainability, and (e) innovativeness. A successful proposal had to
    demonstrate a substantial improvement in at least two of the following fields: (1) service delivery, (2) city
    management, (3) efficiency / cost reduction, (4) environment, or (5) staff.

21 Petunjuk Pelaksanaan ("Juklak")




                                                          - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                          1
               Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of proposals and number           Replication of some sub-projects             Sixty-six innovations out of more than 400
implemented; number of replications;     Completion of all sub-projects               proposals were implemented; some of the
                                                                                      innovations have been replicated

Workshops, dissemination, awards, public                                              Workshops became fora for exchanging
information on innovations;                                                           experiences among municipal leaders on
                                                                                      urban management and administrative
                                                                                      innovations; broader dissemination of
                                                                                      innovations through the website and
                                                                                      newsletters

Institutional development, including     Municipalities adopt changes; changes due    More participatory in budget and development
transparency and training.               to innovation have impacts on municipalities planning; more competitive procurement
                                                                                      process; improvement in public service;
                                                                                      improvement in permit system; improvement
                                                                                      in public information disclosure; improvement
                                                                                      in managing cultural heritage/recreational
                                                                                      services




Output Indicators:
                                                                          1
               Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
At least 40 sub-projects                 Completion of the remaining sub-projects     66 sub-projects


Awards                                   n.a.                                         Five awards for best innovations


Dissemination                            Ten newsletters issued to all Pemda Tk. II   13 newsletters issued to all Pemda Tk. II and
                                                                                      website launched by mid-July, 2002


Workshops                                Five (cumulative) workshops completed by     Five workshops completed by end of 2003
                                         end of year
Pilot under part A2 of the project       Three pilot completed by June 30, 2001       Nine pilots completed by June 30, 2003


Trainees                                 Training for 60 persons                      Overseas on-the-job training for 60 persons

1End of project




                                                           - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  Appraisal         Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                   Estimate           Estimate          Appraisal
                         Component                                US$ million        US$ million
A. Municipal Innovations Subprojects                                   6.45               6.41               99.38
B. Institutional Development                                           0.70               1.22             174.29
Bank Fee                                                               0.05               0.05                 100

Total Baseline Cost                                                    7.20               7.68
                            Total Project Costs                        7.20               7.68
                     Total Financing Required                          7.20               7.68
Sources: PAD, Annex 3; Bank records; MoHA; Bank of Indonesia

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                      Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                ICB              NCB                   2          N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                         Other
1. Works                                0.00              0.00             2.50             0.00            2.50
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)           (1.50)           (0.00)           (1.50)
2. Goods                                0.00              0.00             2.50             0.00            2.50
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)           (1.50)           (0.00)           (1.50)
3. Services                             0.00              0.00             1.45             0.00            1.45
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)           (1.45)           (0.00)           (1.45)
4. PUOD Administration                  0.00              0.00             0.00             0.20            0.20
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
5. PUOD Workshops &                     0.00              0.00             0.50             0.00            0.50
dissemination*                          (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.50)           (0.00)           (0.50)
    Total                               0.00              0.00             6.95             0.20            7.15
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)           (4.95)           (0.00)           (4.95)
Note: * The project costs stated in the PAD are inconsistent. Annex 6, Table A in the PAD stated that PUOD
workshop & dissemination would cost US$0.1 million, while in Annex 3 of the PAD the total cost allocated for
this component was US$0.50 million, comprising TA for PMU US$0.25 million; awards-of-excellence program
US$0.05 million; workshops US$0.10 million; and training US$0.10 million. The above table is the corrected,
based on the table in Annex 3 of the PAD.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                     Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                ICB             NCB                    2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                         Other
1. Works                                0.00              0.00            1.62             0.00            1.62
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)          (1.11)           (0.00)          (1.11)
2. Goods                                0.00              0.00            2.92             0.00            2.92
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)          (1.33)           (0.00)          (1.33)
3. Services                             0.00              0.00            1.87             0.00            1.87
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)          (1.23)           (0.00)          (1.23)
4. PUOD Administration                  0.00              0.00            0.00             0.21            0.21



                                                      - 28 -

                                               (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)              (0.00)
   5. PUOD Workshops &                          0.00                0.00               1.01              0.00               1.01
   dissemination*                              (0.00)              (0.00)             (1.01)           (0.00)              (1.01)
       Total                                    0.00                0.00               7.42              0.21               7.63
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)             (4.68)           (0.00)              (4.68)
   Source of data: MoHA and Bank of Indonesia
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                              Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                       Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  Bank          Govt.         CoF.         Bank         Govt.        CoF.       Bank      Govt.  CoF.
A. Municipal Innovation            4.45         2.00                       3.67          2.74                    82.5     137.0
Subprojects
B. Institutional                   0.50         0.20                       1.01          0.21                   202.0     105.0
Development
Bank Fee                           0.05                                    0.05                                 100.0

   Source of data: Bank's records, MoHA and Bank of Indonesia
   Note: The total actual estimate of the government's contribution for component A is comprised of US$1.23 million in cash and
   US$1.51 million in kind.




                                                                - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

n.a.




                                      - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/01/1997                3    ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);
                                             PRINCIPAL ENVIRONMENT
                                             (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/16/1998                4    PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST
                                             (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PRINCIPAL
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1)
              10/31/1998                4    PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST (1);
                                             LEGAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1)

 Supervision

              02/15/1999                2    PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST (1);         S               S
                                             SOCIAL MATTERS (1)
              06/22/1999                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATION OFFICER (1)
              09/30/1999                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 U               S
                                             OPERATION OFFICER (1)
              05/11/2000                3    COMMUNITY                        S               S
                                             DEVELOPMENT, (1); URBAN
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              12/19/2000                3    OPERATIONS OFFICER, TM           S               S
                                             (1); URBAN MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); COMMUNITY
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1)
              06/21/2001                6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPEC (1);
                                             CUMMUNITY DEV. SPEC. (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL DEV. SPEC
                                             (1); CULTURAL HERITAGE,
                                             COM (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPEC (1)
              12/27/2001                5    SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER           S               S
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC.
                                             (1); COMMUNITY DEV. SPEC.
                                             (1); INSTITUTIONAL



                                              - 31 -

                      DEVELOP. (1); CULTURAL
                      HERITAGE, COM (1)
      06/13/2002    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);       S    S
                      PROCUREMENT (1);
                      CULTURAL HERITAGE, COM
                      (1); INSTITUTIONAL DEV'T
                      (1); COMMUNITY-BASED (1);
                      ENVIRONMENT (1)
      11/15/2002    5 TTL, OPS OFFICER (1);       S    S
                      PROCUREMENT (1);
                      CULTURAL HERITAGE, COM
                      (1); COMMUNITY-BASED
                      DEV (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                      DEVELOP (1)
      04/07/2003    5 TTL, OPS OFFICER (1);
                      COMMUNITY-BASED DEV
                      (1); CULTURAL HERITAGE
                      (1); INSTITUTIONAL DEV'T
                      (1); FINANCIAL
                      MANAGEMENT (1)

ICR
      10/13/2003    3 TTL, OPS OFFICER (1);       S    S
                      INSTITUTIONAL DEV'T
                      (1); URBAN DEV'T.




                      - 32 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                        11.4                             42.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                              8.8                             33.9
  Supervision                                       77.9                           179.6
  ICR                                                9.0                             24.0
  Total                                           107.1                            279.9
Regional direct to full costs mark-up is 25% for fiscal years up to and including FY99.




                                                        - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1.  Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Learning and Innovation Loan for a Municipal Innovation
     Project, The World Bank
 2.  Loan Agreement of Municipal Innovation Project, The World Bank, 1999
 3.  List of DADPD, 1999-2002
 4.  List of DIPP 2003
 5.  Annual report - Project monitoring and evaluation CY 1999, 2000, 2002
 6.  Quarterly progress report of MIP, by PMU, 2000  2003
 7.  Financial management report of MIP, by PMU, quarterly report, 2000  2003
 8.  Quarterly and annual progress report of MIP, by PMU, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003
 9.  Assignment completion report TA for PMU  Final Report of MIP, June 2003
 10. Supervision report of MIP, by PMU, 2001, 2002 and 2003
 11. List of Current Account of Bank of Indonesia
 12. Implementation Guideline of Municipal Innovation Program, by PMU
 13. Final Report of Municipal Innovation Project of Kabupaten Wonosobo, by government of kabupaten
     Wonosobo
 14. Final Report of Municipal Innovation Project of Kabupaten Semarang, by government of Kabupaten
     Semarang
 15. Final Report of Municipal Innovation Project of Kota Malang, by government of Kota Malang
 16. Final Report of Municipal Innovation Project of Kota Denpasar, by government of Kota Denpasar
 17. Final Report of Municipal Innovation Project of Kota Bandar Lampung, by government of Kota Bandar
     Lampung
 18. Final Report of Municipal Innovation Project of Kabupaten Kepulauan Riau, by government of Kab.
     Kepulauan Riau
 19. Final Report of Municipal Innovation Project of Kabupaten Majalengka, by government of Kab. Majalengka
 20. Implementation Completion Report, by PMU, June 2003
 21. Final Report of Local government performance indicators, by Institute of Technology Bandung
22.  Workshop proceeding of "Developing a culture of innovation - towards better governance", by PMU, June
     2003




                                                       - 36 -

Additional Annex 8. Planned and Actual Project Implementation Schedule


                                     Year  CY 1999     CY 2000  CY 2001    CY 2002    CY 2003      Total
                                          Plan. Act. Plan. Act. Plan. Act. Plan. Act. Plan. Act. Plan. Act.
         Item
         Subprojects started              30     -     10   22    -   23     -   -      -   12   40    57
         Subprojects completed                         30   -   Rest  9      -   35     -   12   30    56
         Pilots started                                           -   9      -   1                     10
         Pilots completed                                        3    -      -   9          1     3    10
         Awards                                        3    -                           -   5     3     5
         Newsletters issued                2     -     4    3    4    6      -   3      -   1    10    13
         Workshops carried out             1     -     2    2    2    1      -   1      -   1     5     5
         Domestic training (Trainees)                  -   108                                     -   108
         Overseas training (Trainees)     20     -     20   -   20    -          -      -   60   60    60

    1/ Plan. = planned; Act. = actual




                                                 - 37 -

Additional Annex 9. Spatial Distribution of Participating Local Governments



No            Province           Kota/Kabupaten           Number of Subprojects    Percentage of
                                                       by Local Gov't  by Province    Total
 1    Nangroe Aceh Darussalam Kab. Aceh Barat                1               1        1.5 %
 2    West Sumatra            Kota Padang                    2               3        4.5 %
                              Kab. Tanah Datar               1
 3    Jambi                   Kab. Batanghari                1               1        1.5 %
 4    Riau                    Kota Tanjung Pinang            1               1        1.5 %
 5    Lampung                 Kota Bandar Lampung            2               2        3.0 %
 6    South Sumatra           Kota Palembang                 1               1        1.5 %
 7    Bengkulu                Kota Bengkulu                  1               1        1.5 %
 8    DKI Jakarta             Kota Jakarta Timur             1               2        3.0 %
                              Kota Jakarta Utara             1
 9    West Java               Kab. Bogor                     1              12       18.2 %
                              Kab. Bandung                   1
                              Kab. Garut                     1
                              Kab. Cirebon                   1
                              Kab. Majalengka                1
                              Kab. Sumedang                  1
                              Kab. Subang                    1
                              Kota Bogor                     1
                              Kota Sukabumi                  1
                              Kota Bandung                   1
                              Kota Cirebon                   1
                              Kab. Cianjur                   1
10    Banten                  Kota Tangerang                 2               2        3.0 %
11    Central Java            Kab. Banjarnegara              2              17       25.8 %
                              Kab. Batang                    1
                              Kab. Boyolali                  1
                              Kab. Wonosobo                  2
                              Kab. Purworejo                 1
                              Kab. Sukoharjo                 2
                              Kab. Kudus                     1
                              Kab. Jepara                    1
                              Kab. Semarang                  1
                              Kab. Pekalongan                1
                              Kab. Brebes                    1
                              Kota Magelang                  1
                              Kota Semarang                  1
                              Kota Pekalongan                1
12    DI Yogyakarta           Kota Yogyakarta                1               1        1.5 %
13    East Java               Kab. Bondowoso                 1               8       12.1 %
                              Kab. Blitar                    1
                              Kab. Probolinggo               1
                              Kab. Situbondo                 1
                              Kab. Sidoarjo                  1
                              Kota Malang                    1
                              Kota Surabaya                  2
14    West Kalimantan         Kab. Sintang                   1               1        1.5 %
15    East Kalimantan         Kota Tarakan                   1               1        1.5 %
16    South Kalimantan        Kab. Banjar                    1               2        3.0 %
                              Kota Banjarmasin               1




                                                - 38 -

No           Province          Kota/Kabupaten        Number of Subprojects    Percentage of
                                                  by Local Gov't  by Province    Total
17    Bali                  Kab. Gianyar                1              2         3.0 %
                            Kota Denpasar               1
18    East Nusatenggara     Kab. Alor                   2              4         6.1 %
                            Kab. Sikka                  1
                            Kota Kupang                 1
19    South Sulawesi        Kab. Gowa                   1              1         1.5 %
20    Gorontalo             Kota Gorontalo              1              1         1.5 %
21    Southeast Sulawesi    Kota Kendari                1              1         1.5 %
22    Papua                 Kota Jayapura               1              1         1.5 %
T O T A L                                              66            66         100 %




                                           - 39 -

Additional Annex 10. Participating Local Governments by Field of Activity


The sectoral composition of the eventually accepted proposals was as follows:


Sector                                    Component A1                          Component A2               Total per
                                                                                                             Sector

Participatory           2.1  Kota Bandung         3.6  Kab. Gorontalo        4.2  Kota B. Lampung              5
Planning                3.4  Kabupaten Alor                                  4.8  Kota Kupang

Public Information      2.3  Kota Bogor           5.4  Kota Probolinggo      4.1  Kota Palembang               10
and Dialogue,           2.10 Kota Denpasar        5.7  Kab. Boyolali         4.3  Kota Tangerang

Handling of             3.3  Kota Surabaya                                   4.6  Kota Surabaya
                        3.8  Kota Padang                                     4.9  Kota Tarakan
Complaints

Permit                  2.2  Kota Tangerang                                  4.4  Kota Cirebon                 6
Simplification and      2.9  Kota Malang                                     4.5  Kab. Bandung

One-roof Permit         3.5  Kota Kendari                                    4.7  Kab. Sukoharjo

System

Waste Management        1.1  Jakarta Utara        1.9  Kab. Jepara                        -                    13
and/or Composting       1.2  Jakarta Timur        1.16 Kota Pekalongan
                        1.3  Kab. Bogor           1.22 Kota B. Lampung
                        1.4  Kab. Subang          1.23 Kab Sintang
                        1.5  Kab. Majalengka      2.4  Kab. Garut
                        1.6  Kab. Sukabumi        2.13 Kab. Bengkulu
                        1.8  Kab. Semarang

Income Generation       1.7  Kab. Cirebon         1.20 Kab. Gianyar                       -                    13
and Support to          1.10 Kab. Wonosobo        2.7  Kab. Pekalongan

Informal Economy        1.11 Kota Kudus           2.11 Kab. Sikka
                        1.12 Kab. Brebes          5.1  Kab. Blitar
                        1.13 Kab. Sukoharjo       5.2  Kota Banjarmasin
                        1.17 Kota Magelang        5.11 Kab. Batang
                        1.19 Kab. Situbondo

Environmental           1.21 Kab. Kep. Riau       5.6  Kabupaten Alor                     -                    5
Management and          3.2  Kab. Sumedang        5.8  Kota Jayapura

City Greening           5.3  Kab. Purworejo


Heritage                1.14 Kab. Banjarnegara    2.12 Kab. Gowa                          -                    7
Conservation and        1.15 Kota Semarang        5.5  Kab.Banjarnegara

Tourism Promotion       1.18 Kab. Bondowoso       5.9  Kota Batusangkar
                        2.5  DI Yogyakarta

Public Service          2.6  Kab. Wonosobo        3.9  Kota Padang                        -                    7
                        2.8  Kab. Sidoarjo        5.10 Kab. Batanghari
                        3.1  Kab.Aceh Barat       5.12 Kab. Cianjur
                        3.7  Kab. Banjar

TOTAL                                          57                                         9                    66


Numbering of Subprojects:     The number before the period indicates the batch (1, 2, 3 = first three batches under Component
A1; 4 = pilot projects under Component A2; 5 = additional subprojects proposed after the overseas on-the-job training);
the second number is the current number within each batch.




                                                             - 40 -

Additional Annex 11. List of Subprojects


  Kota / Kabupaten       Subproject Description                                                    Estimated Cost in
                                                                                                                   1/
                                                                                                         '000 Rp.
BATCH I
 1  Kota Jakarta Utara   Producing poultry feed by processing organic waste to reduce waste from         1,154
                         restaurant and fish market
 2  Kota Jakarta Timur   Centralization of chicken slaughtering to handle environment pollution          2,795
                         in dense settlement area and control slathered chicken products
 3  Kab. Bogor           Vermicomposting and appropriate technologies for handling of                      779
                         slaughterhouse waste
 4  Kab. Subang          Composting human waste to lengthen lifetime of the Human Waste                  1,333
                         Processing Unit
 5  Kab. Majalengka      Village-based garbage collection for improving coverage of public                 772
                         services
 6  Kota Sukabumi        Development of agro-tourism for improving local economic and                      862
                         conserving natural environment
 7  Kab. Cirebon         Integrated Economic Area Development to promote rural economic                    747
                         development
 8  Kab. Semarang        Small-scale biogas production from cattle manure to provide domestic              660
                         energy alternative and handle environment pollution
 9  Kabupaten Jepara     Vermicomposting for handling garbage in final dump site                           882
 10 Kab. Wonosobo        Organizing the sidewalk traders for improving the town square function          1,219
 11 Kabupaten Kudus      National Train Company-community partnership to provide decent place              725
                         for sidewalk traders
 12 Kab. Brebes          Utilization of preservation technology to absorb excessive product of red         891
                         onion
 13 Kab. Sukoharjo       Organizing the sidewalk traders for improving the town square function          1,051
 14 Kab. Banjarnegara    Interregional cooperation for managing the tourism area of Dieng                1,183
 15 Kota Semarang        Revitalizing old city of Semarang for alleviating local economic                1,674
                         development
 16 Kota Pekalongan      Carrying out poultry feed production to handle pollution caused by              1,017
                         rejected fish
 17 Kota Magelang        Organizing sidewalk traders to improve city environment                           893
 18 Kab. Bondowoso       Upgrading the Tasnan tourism area through inter-agency cooperation                869
 19 Kab. Situbondo       Improvement of fish preservation product quality by utilizing modern              700
                         and appropriate technology
 20 Kabupaten Gianyar    Poverty alleviation through provision of small-scale revolving capital            890
 21 Kab. Kep. Riau       City greening for improving air quality of the city                               967
 22 Kota B. Lampung      Small-scale composting for handling household garbage                             814
 23 Kabupaten Sintang    Vermicomposting for handling garbage in final dump site                         1,560
BATCH II
 1  Kota Bandung         Improving transparency and accountability of public service by                    615
                         institutionalizing "ombudsman"
 2  Kota Tangerang       Establishing one-roof permit system for improving public service                  738
 3  Kota Bogor           Developing Automatic Information Media for Promoting public                       750
                         information disclosure
 4  Kabupaten Garut      Utilizing appropriate technology for handling hazardous and toxic waste         1,348
                         pollution
 5  DI Yogyakarta        Conserving traditional culture to promote local economy and sustain               997
                         tourism sector
 6  Kab. Wonosobo        Upgrading public library for improving public service                           1,091
 7  Kab. Pekalongan      Local economic development by enhancing small-scale silk thread                   773
                         industries
 8  Kota Sidoarjo        Upgrading public library for improving public service                           1,092




                                                   - 41 -

 9  Kota Malang         Establishing one-roof permit system for improving public service                 631

    Kota / Kabupaten    Subproject Description                                                   Estimated Cost in
                                                                                                                 1/
                                                                                                        000 Rp.
 10 Kota Denpasar       Improving building permit control by establishing transparent geographic         917
                        information system
 11 Kabupaten Sikka     Empowering women artisans for improving local income                             749
 12 Kabupaten Gowa      Promoting community-based cultural tourism development for improving           1,020
                        local attractiveness
 13 Kota Bengkulu       Development of village-based garbage management by promoting                     822
                        community awareness
BATCH III
 1  Kab. Aceh Barat     Preparing Sub-district government model to provide reference for                 682
                        implementation of regional autonomy
 2  Kab. Sumedang       Community-based environment management for conserving the spring                 904
                        water area
 3  Kota Surabaya       Promoting public information disclosure to increase transparency                 924
 4  Kabupaten Alor      Public pooling to promote community participation in urban                       405
                        development
 5  Kota Kendari        Promoting one-roof permit system for improving public service                    643
 6  Kota Gorontalo      Promoting participatory planning approach for creating responsive and            600
                        efficient development
 7  Kabupaten Banjar    Establishing self-finance market management for improving public                 334
                        service
 8  Kota Padang         Establishing inter-active dialogue to promote responsive and transparent         200
                        public service delivery
 9  Kota Padang         GIS development and community awareness campaign to promote                      425
                        responsive handling of fire accidents
BATCH IV (PILOT PROJECT)
 1  Kota Palembang      Developing public complaint unit for improving local government               50,141
                        performance in delivering service
 2  Kota B. Lampung     Improving transparency and accountability of local budgeting process          59,048
 3  Kota Tangerang      Developing public complaint unit for improving local government               89,712
                        performance in delivering service
 4  Kota Cirebon        Promoting one-roof permit system for improving public service                109,489
 5  Kabupaten Bandung   Improvement of land utilization permit service by developing GIS              62,470
 6  Kota Surabaya       Developing public complaint unit for improving local government               94,005
                        performance in delivering service
 7  Kab. Sukoharjo      Promoting one-roof permit system for improving public service                 85,444
 8  Kota Kupang         Improving transparency and accountability of local budgeting process          77,152
 9  Kota Tarakan        Promoting public information disclosure by providing accessible               87,945
                        information for the society
BATCH V (POST ON-THE-JOB TRAINING PROGRAM)
 1  Kabupaten Blitar    Establishing Center for Fish Management and Health Service for                74,698
                        improving quantity and quality of fish products and its marketing
 2  Kota Banjarmasin    Developing water-hyacinth handicraft to promote local economic                57,829
                        development
 3  Kab. Purworejo      Greening the city to improve air quality of the city                          42,721
 4  Kota Probolinggo    Development of asset management system to promote transparent and             66,292
                        accountable management
 5  Kab. Banjarnegara   Upgrading landscape of historical-cultural heritage to promote tourism        81,523
                        development
 6  Kabupaten Alor      Development of public-community partnership in conserving the spring          44,978
                        water area
 7  Kabupaten Boyolali  Enhancing administration and management of PDAM (Local Water                  41,236
                        Enterprise) for improving public service
 8  Kota Jayapura       Promoting of public-community participation in conserving the spring          36,694



                                                  - 42 -

                                       water area




         Kota / Kabupaten              Subproject Description                                                  Estimated Cost in
                                                                                                                               1/
                                                                                                                      000 Rp.
    9    Kota Batusangkar              Preparing master plan and promoting public participation for conserving      69,032
                                       traditional cultural heritage
    10   Kab. Batanghari               Constructing new regional market and developing self-reliance               520,157
                                       management to improve public service
    11   Kabupaten Batang              Managing the sidewalk traders to promote orderliness of the city             44,937
    12   Kabupaten Cianjur             Development of computer-based hospital management system for                108,947
                                       improving public health service

1\ Includes Bank Loan, APBD and In-kind




                                                                  - 43 -

              Additional Annex 12. Intended and Attained Innovations


Local                 Intended Main                     Outcomes1\                                  Impacts2)            Sustainability3\        Replication4\
Government;           Activities                                                                                                                  Same   Other
Sub-project                                                                                                                                        LG    LGs
Description

Technical and Environmental Management

Kota Jakarta Utara    - Construction of production      AAA Production facilities are                                    A   Operation of the
Producing poultry feed  facility to produce poultry         functioning and utilized by local                                Cooperative is not
by processing organic   feed from organic waste             small-scale fishermen                                            supported by clear
waste to reduce waste - Empowering small-scale              cooperative                                                      MoU
from restaurants and    waste collectors as suppliers X     Lack of appropriate wastewater
fish market             and providing cheaper poultry       treatment unit
                        feed for local breeders         A   Input supplies come from
                                                            established medium-scale
                                                            waste collectors

 Kota Jakarta Timur   - Construction of central         AAA Production facilities functioning                            AAA Strong commitment
 Centralization of       chicken collection and             and utilized by non target                                       of LG to handle
 chicken slaughtering    slaughtering                       beneficiaries                                                    environment
 to reduce            - Reallocation of small and       AAA Supported by appropriate                                         pollution and to
 environmental           medium scale business                                                                               control chicken
 pollution in dense                                         wastewater treatment plant
                         from dense settlement area                                                                          product quality
 settlement area                                        X   Encouraging the businessmen
                         to the new location                to move to new location
                                                            voluntarily is still facing
                                                            difficulties, due to weak
                                                            socialization and consultation
                                                            with target beneficiaries

 Kabupaten Bogor      - Construction of production      X   Out of 3 processes, only                                     X   Lack of LG          Replic
 Vermicomposting         facilities for making organic      fertilizer production is working                                 commitment            ated
 and appropriate         fertilizer, biogas and             (far below design capacity)                                                            by a
 technologies for        livestock feed                 A   Production process involves                                                            local
 handling of          - Involving local farmers to          less than 5 workers (some of                                                         farmer
 slaughterhouse          improve their incomes              them are LG staff)
 waste

 Kabupaten Subang     - Construction of production      X   Production process is not                                     X   Lack of LG
 Composting human        facilities to lengthen lifetime    functioning                                                       commitment
 waste to lengthen       of the human waste
 lifetime of the Human   treatment unit and reducing
 Waste Processing        organic garbage
 Unit

 Kota Sukabumi        - Recycling organic waste         A   Likely functioning               +  Project has created      AAA Strong commitment
 Development of          into compost                   AAA Pasture grass cultivation and       revenue for local            of LG to support
 agro-tourism for     - Cultivating pasture grass           cattle fattening functioning well   community, private           agro-tourism
 improving local         for cow feed, and              AAA Local community was involved        sector and LG                development in the
 economy and          - Fattening cattle to improve         from the beginning of the        +  Indirect benefit: better     area
 conserving natural      local economy                      process                             rural infrastructure and
 environment          - Involving local community                                               facilities
                         in the activity                                                     +  LG puts more resources
                                                                                                in the sector and plans
                                                                                                to provide necessary
                                                                                                legal basis

 Kabupaten            - Producing small-scale           AAA More than 60 small-scale and     +  Reduction in volume of   AAA Direct benefit to   Biogas
 Semarang                biogas                             simple biogas production units      livestock manure             local community     produc
 Small-scale          - Composting organic waste            are functioning and developing +    Less spending on             has encouraged      tion is
 biogas production       and biogas production          AAA Composting is functioning           energy and reduce in         more people to      replicat
 to provide              residues                                                               firewood usages              produce and use     ed by
 alternative                                                                                 +  Less spending on             biogas for domestic other
 domestic energy                                                                                fertilizer                   and small-scale     village
 and handle                                                                                                                  industries          s
 environmental
 pollution

Kabupaten Jepara      - Construction of composting      AAA Compost production is                                        A   Strong commitment




                                                                                        - 44 -

Vermicomposting in        facilities                        functioning well                                                   of LG, however due
final dump site                                                                                                                to low rate of
                                                                                                                               financial return, the
                                                                                                                               project still burden
                                                                                                                               local budget

Kota Pekalongan         - Developing poultry feed      A    Production facility was
Producing poultry         production                        functioning, trial activity showed
feed from rejected      - Establishing partnership with     good result
fish                      private sector in production X    Production process cannot be
                                                            continued, due to lack of input
                                                            production (rejected fish)

Kabupaten               - Developing high-tech         AAA Subproject constructed             +  Another fishermen's      A   To sustain the
Situbondo                 preservation production           high-tech preservation               cooperative will manage      program, LG has
Improving product         process                           production facility in Pondok        the production               established
quality of preserved    - Empowering local small-scale      Mimbo                                                             partnership with
fish                      fish preservation producers  A    The constructed facility is                                       private sector
                                                            functioning although some local
                                                            fish preservation producers
                                                            reluctant to use the facility, due
                                                            to complicated standard.

Kabupaten Kep.          - Greening the town square of Through consultations with              +  Belated consultation with A   LG maintain the
Riau                      the city                     stakeholder, main function of the town    stakeholder after             square    with routine
City greening for       - Organizing sidewalk traders  square was changed, no street             sub-mission of the            budget
improving air             in the area                  vendors allowed to operate in the         innovation resulted in
quality in the city                                    area.                                     adjustment of objective;
                                                       X    Subproject failed to obtain its      people now have a place
                                                            objective in greening the town       for sports
                                                            square. Most of the town square-     O/M burden to the LG
                                                            covered with concrete                budget, since no revenue
                                                       X    No sidewalk traders allowed to       can be generated from
                                                            operate in the area                  informal trade sector as
                                                       X    The function of the square has       had been intended
                                                            become a recreational area,
                                                            esp. for sport activities

Kota Bandar             - Providing simple composting AAA Subproject provided simple          +  Simple technology and     A   Commitment of LG      More
Lampung                   technology and capacity           composting technology that is        useful product (organic       to continue           househo
Small-scale               building for local community      appropriate to local capacity        fertilizer) encourages        supporting the        ld does
composting for          - Developing small-scale            and distributed equipment to 30      more community to carry       program is unknown compos-
handling household        composting process                community groups                     out the process                                     ting
garbage                                                AAA Small-scale composting process                                                            process
                                                            is active

Kabupaten Sintang       - Developing composting        AAA Composting process is active       +  A local NGO proposed to AAA High commitment of Replicat
Vermicomposting in        process in final dump site        and has produced tons of             manage the composting         the Vice Governor to ed in
final dump site           area                              compost (organic fertilizer)         activity based on profit      support the program other
                        - Involving local community in A    Five local unskilled workers         sharing basis                                       village
                          the production process            involved in the production
                                                            process

Kabupaten Garut         - Developing leather board     A    Production facilities used to     -  The objective to better   X   Lack of professional
Utilizing appropriate     production                        functioning. Due lack of funds       manage the hazardous          management
technology for handling - Establishing professional and     for continuing the process, the      waste produced by the
hazardous and toxic       independent management            facility is idle                     leather industries in
waste                     unit                         X    Subproject has not established       Garut was not achieved
                                                            a management unit

Kabupaten               - Carrying out technical       X    Some infiltration wells were                                   X   Lack commitment of
Sumedang                  engineering to conserve the       constructed but are in poor                                        LG to sustain the
Community-based           spring water                      condition                                                          program
environmental           - Reforestation and reduction  AAA About 5 Hectares land in the
management for            of gravel and sand mining in      upstream area have been
conserving spring         the upstream area                 reforested; permits for gravel
catchment area          - Development of participatory      and sand mining are no longer
                          approach in managing the          issued or extended
                          area                         X    Forum for participatory
                                                            approach was not established

Kabupaten Alor          - Preparing guideline to       A    Guideline regarding upstream                                   AAA Strong commitment
Developing                conserve the spring               area conservation has been                                         of the Bupati to
public-community          catchment area                    prepared through participatory                                     support the program



                                                                                          - 45 -

partnership for      - Establishing Partnership          process
conserving spring      Forum                         A   Forum established involves
catchment area       - Forestation                       various stakeholders, such as
                                                         government officials,
                                                         community leaders, and village
                                                         institutions
                                                     A   5 Hectares land in the upstream
                                                         area have been reforested

Kota Jayapura        - Conduct social, economy andA      Mapping result incorporated in +    Plans to establish 7       AAA Strong commitment
Public-community       cultural mapping and prepare      the master plan of water            water conservation             of provincial and
participation for      master plan for conservation      resources conservation              forums in 7 spring water       local governments to
conserving spring    - Forestation program           A   Forestation covers 2 Ha             area. Some traditional         conserve the natural
catchment area       - Development of community          upstream area                       leaders have showed            forest in the area
                       forum as place for dialogue   A   Subproject has carried out          their eagerness to
                       on conserving the upstream        several dialogues with              contribute to the
                       area                              government and                      conservation efforts
                                                         non-government stakeholder,
                                                         includes international NGOs.

Kota Batusangkar     - Prepare master plan of        A   Master plan and action plan has +   Increase in number of      AAA Strong commitment      Pilot
Preparing master       cultural heritage assets          been prepared through               visitors/tourists (domestic    of the Regional       expande
plan and promoting     management and first year         participatory approach involving    or international)              Secretary (SEKDA)       d to
public participation   action plans                      government and                   +  Local artisans eager to                               other
for conserving       - Undertake pilot for the           non-government stakeholders.        practice and improve                                 tourism
cultural heritage      implementation                A   As pilot, subproject in             their performance                                     object
                                                         collaboration with local            (traditional dance)
                                                         community of a traditional
                                                         village carried out up-grading of
                                                         Balairuang (hall) Saritabek, and
                                                         prepare package of traditional
                                                         performance for domestic and
                                                         international tourists under
                                                         management of "Badan Usaha
                                                         Nagari" (local management unit)


Technical Aspect/Information System

Kota Bogor           - Developing computer- based A      Subproject has developed         +  Increase internal info     AAA Strong commitment
Developing             information system                information system that             sharing among LG               of LG to develop
Automatic            - Establishing internal             accessible to public under          agencies                       e-government
Information Media      coordination among agencies       management of KPDE               +  Kota Bogor received
for promoting public   under one management unit A       To improve content of the           "e-government" award
information          - Socialization of the system       information served, KPDE carry      from Ministry of Comm.
disclosure             to public                         out internal coordination           and Info.
                                                         However, some system,            +  LG put more resources to
                                                         particularly at kecamatan level     expand MIA into
                                                         is still idle                       e-government

Kota Denpasar        - Preparing GIS-based building A    The main system managed by +        Dinas Tata Kota            X   By the time of
Improving building     permit system                     DTK (City and Building Agency)      (Planning Agency) will         closing date, the
permit control by    - Expanding the network             is under-utilized whilst some       establish its own website,     existing agency was
establishing           system to kecamatan level         other systems at Kecamatan          this subproject will be        not ready to manage
transparent          - Institutionalization of the       level are not functioning, due to   incorporated in this           the system, due to
geographic             system                            lack of human capacity              website                        lack of human
information system                                                                                                          resources, by the
                                                                                                                            time of ICR the
                                                                                                                            Mayor give more
                                                                                                                            support as it will be
                                                                                                                            linked with the new
                                                                                                                            BUIP subproject

Kota Padang          - Development of GIS to         AAA GIS system has been              +  Issuance of Local          A   Weak support from
Improving fire         support fire brigade operation    developed to assist the fire        Regulation: requirement        the Mayor for further
brigade services       in handling fire accident         brigade in handling fire            to provide fire                development
through GIS          - Promote awareness                 accidents by providing useful       extinguisher prior to
development and        campaign in village level in      information on hydrants, routes     issuance of building
community              preventing and handling fire      etc                                 permit
awareness              accident                      AAA Village volunteer groups
campaign                                                 established in 7 villages to
                                                         promote community awareness




                                                                                    - 46 -

Institutional / Organizational

Kabupaten Majalengka - Establishing village-based          X   Most of the cooperatives were                                    X   Strong commitment
Village-based              cooperatives                        not professionally managed and                                       of LG, however, due
garbage                  - Developing village-based            went bankrupt                                                        to low rate of
management                 garbage management              X   Garbage management is not                                            financial return, the
                           (garbage collection at village      functioning due to lack of                                           project still burdens
                           level and recycling of organic      capital                                                              the local budget; the
                           and plastic waste)                                                                                       approach will not be
                                                                                                                                    sustainable unless
                                                                                                                                    professional
                                                                                                                                    management of
                                                                                                                                    cooperatives is
                                                                                                                                    achieved

 Kabupaten               - Upgrading the tourism area      AAA Various facilities has been        +  LG revenue from ticket     A   Inter-regional
 Banjarnegara               of Dieng                           completely up-graded                  selling has risen by up        cooperation is
 Managing the            - Developing inter-regional       AAA Inter-regional cooperation            to 300%                        supported by MoU
 tourism area of            cooperation with adjacent          between LG of Banjarnegara         +  Establish partnership          between both LGs;
 Dieng Plateau in           LG in developing and               and Wonosobo was                      with Bali Tourism Board,       the benefit
 cooperation with           managing the area                  established and active.               increase attention from        encourages LG to
 Kabupaten                                                                                           theMinistry of Religion        sustain the
 Wonosobo                                                                                            to develop                     cooperation
                                                                                                     religion-based tourism

Kota Semarang            - Building awareness of local X       Awareness of the buidling          -  No significant changes     X   Weak commitment of
Revitalizing the old city  community to conserve their         owners to participate in cultural     took place                     LG and poor
of Semarang                old houses as part of the           heritage conservation is lacking                                     approach toward
                           effort to conserve                  due to lack of socialization                                         participatory
                           architectural heritage in the   A   Beautification (physical) of                                         revitalization
                           old city                            some part of the Kota Lama
                         - Enriching cultural    activities    (Old Town) area
                           as part of the    old city
                           tourist attraction,
                           revitalization part of the   old
                           town

Kabupaten Bondowoso - Up-grading tourism facilities AAA Some tourism facilities have              +  Increase LG revenue        AAA UPTD is under
Upgrading the              in Tasnan                           been up-graded and utilized           from ticket selling            authority of Local
Tasnan tourism           - Developing inter-agency         AAA Inter-agency cooperation is        +  People is having better        Tourism and Cultural
area through               cooperation in managing the         active. To improve                    and more variety of            Agency
inter-agency               area                                management of the area, LG            recreational facilities    AAA MOU betweem the
cooperation                                                    established management unit (                                        Perhutani and the
                                                               UPTD)                                                                LG, and between the
                                                                                                                                    village and the LG

Kota Bandung             - Preparing ombudsman             A   Subproject has prepared            -  Lack consultation with     X   Lack of political
Improving                  concept through a                   ombudsman concept                     local council burden           support from local
transparency and           participatory process           X   However, institutionalization         institutionalization           parliament (DPRD)
accountability of public - Institutionalization of the         process cannot be continued           process
service by                 concept                             since local council still reluctant
institutionalizing                                             to accept the concept
"ombudsman"

Kota Tangerang           - Simplifying permit procedure A      Concept of efficient permit        -  Lack internal coordinationX    Weak commitment of
Establishing             - Enhancing internal                  procedure has been developed          burden institutionalization    LG, only this year the
one-roof permit            coordination among relevant X       Institutionalization failed, due to   of the system                  LG is planning to
system                     agencies                            lack of internal coordination                                        improve the system
                         - Institutionalizing the system                                                                            with their own budget

Kabupaten                - Up-grading the library          AAA The library was extended, book +      Significant increase in    AAA Strong commitment     Replicat
Wonosobo                   facilities                          collections improved, supported       number of registered           of LG and DPRD         ed in
Upgrading public         - Improving public service            by internet facility                  members, book                                        smaller
library                  - Developing public awareness     AAA Computer-based service and            borrowers, visitors                                  units at
                           and networking with local           books inventory were               +  Increase in local budget                             subdistri
                           libraries and publishers            developed, operating hours            allocation up to Rp. 0.5                             ct level
                                                               were extended                         billion
                                                           AAA Reader group and English club
                                                               were established, networking
                                                               with reputable national
                                                               publisher was developed

Kabupaten Sidoarjo       - Up-grading the library          AAA The library was extended, book +      Significant increase in    AAA Strong commitment



                                                                                            - 47 -

Upgrading public     facilities                         collections improved                 number of registered           of LG
library            - Improving public service       AAA Computer-based service was           members, visitors and
                                                        developed                            book collections
                                                                                          +  Primary, Secondary and
                                                                                             High schools collaborate
                                                                                             with the library, also
                                                                                             private sector

Kota Malang        - Internal restructuring         AAA Internal restructuring and permit +  Improvement status of      AAA Strong commitment        Replicat
Establishing       - Permit procedure                   simplification has been              management unit from           of LG, the improved      ed by
one-roof permit      simplification                     successfully under taken             UPT to Dinas (agency)          permit system is         cities in
system             - Establishing one-roof permit   AAA One-roof permit system is         +  A more efficient permit        supported by Mayor       East
                     system                             managed under Dinas                                                 Decree                   Java
                                                        Pelayanan Perijinan                  system

Kabupaten Gowa     - Conserving and developing AAA Groups of local artisans and           +  High enthusiasm of local AAA Strong commitment
Promoting            local culture                      cultural society involved in         artisans and cultural         of Bupati to promote
community-based    - Promoting potential tourism        capacity building to improve         society in taking part        the Expo regularly as
cultural tourism     objects                            their performance                    during the Cultural Expo      part of annual
development                                         A   Promotion of potential tourism       at Tamalate Palace of         tourism agenda in
                                                        objects carried out through          Gowa                          Gowa
                                                        printed and electronic media      +  Local artisans are often
                                                        (website)                            hired by LGs or private
                                                    A   "Mangkasara" institution was         sector to perform
                                                        established to develop local art
                                                        and culture

Kota Bengkulu      - Development of community AAA "Poksiling" (environmental              +  Waste is regularly         AAA Strong commitment
Development of       awareness                          village-based organization) was      collected, the city has        of Mayor to support
village-based      - Mobilizing community               established in every city            become cleaner                 and continuing the
garbage              participation in handling          subdistrict. Responsible to                                         program
management by        garbage in village level           collect household waste, set
promoting                                               collection garbage charges and
community                                               assist LG in building community
awareness                                               awareness

Kabupaten Aceh     - Preparing concept of           AAA LG has issued Local Regulation                                  A   LG has requested
Barat                Kecamatan Government,              (Perda) regarding alternative                                       exception from
Preparing            which fits with regional           organization structure of                                           Central Government
alternative          autonomy policy                    Subdistrict (Kecamatan)                                             to provide
Sub-district       - Institutionalizing the concept     Government                                                          opportunity to
government model                                    X   The regulation cannot be                                            implement the
                                                        fully implemented yet, since                                        concept, but this has
                                                        still does not fit with the                                         not yet been granted

                                                        National regulation                                             A   LG is continuously
                                                                                                                            committed to
                                                                                                                            implement the
                                                                                                                            regulation

Kota Surabaya      - Establish internal             X   Insufficient support,             +  People can access the      X   There was a
Promoting public     coordination among LG              commitment and coordination          information regarding          ommitment to
information          agencies                           among LG agencies                    available public services      continue the
discl0osure        - Develop comprehensive and      A   Information system supported         in the kiosks located at       program, but the
                     integrated information system      by several information kiosks        public area (hospital,         appropriate unit to
                     under one management unit          located in strategic location.       train station, university,     manage it has not
                   - Institutionalization               The system was initially             etc.)                          been assigned
                   - Socialization of the               managed by KPDE (Office of
                     developed system                   Electronic Data Management),
                                                        but later by the Library office
                                                    X   The system has not been
                                                        institutionalized in a proper unit

Kabupaten Alor     - Carry out public polling to    A   Public polling covers more than +    To support the             A   LG commits to
Public polling to    collect public aspiration on       600 respondents from 9 villages      participatory process, LG      sustain the program
promote              development                                                             has prepared formal
community          - Incorporate polling result intoAAA Some result of the polling has       guideline regarding
participation in     formal decision making             been incorporated in LG              participatory planning
urban development    process                            decision making process (in          and development,
                   - Institutionalization               construction of temporary and        supported by Bupati
                                                        final dump site, increase certain    Decree
                                                        section of road capacity,         +  Many programs related
                                                        relocation of cemetery etc)          to planning in public




                                                                                     - 48 -

                                                      X   Public polling has been             decision making adopted
                                                          institutionalized by the adoption   similar approach
                                                          of this the approach in public
                                                          decision making (e.g. annual
                                                          budgeting, spatial plan, etc)

Kota Kendari          - Internal restructuring of    AAA Internal restructuring to support                              AAA Strong commitment
Promoting one-roof      organization                     integrated permit system has                                       of the Mayor and
permit system         - Simplify permit procedure        been done                                                          other relevant
                      - Develop one-roof permit      AAA Development of simple permit                                       government
                        system                           procedure                                                          agencies to support
                                                     AAA Empowering and improving                                           the system
                                                         status of the existing
                                                         management unit (UPT) to
                                                         Kantor

Kota Gorontalo        - Establish village-based      AAA Village-based institutions were +    Increase community        AAA Strong commitment        Require
Promoting               institutions                     developed as part of                 participation in planning     of government and        ment of
participatory         - Establish procedure and          participatory planning system        and development               non-government            other
planning approach       mechanism of participatory AAA Procedure and mechanism of             process                       stakeholder to           project
for creating            planning                         participatory planning has been                                    sustain the process
responsive and        - Carry out participatory          internalized and supported by
efficient               planning                         formal legal basis (Perda)
development           - Institutionalization

Kabupaten Banjar      - Establish stakeholder forum AAA The forum involved government                                   X   Weak of LG
Establishing          - Preparing concept of             and non government                                                 commitment to
self-financing          self-finance market              stakeholders (inc.                                                 support the concept
market                  management                       representative of traders)                                          internal
management            - Institutionalization of the  A   Concept of self-financing                                          reorganization is
                        concept                          market has been prepared, but                                      needed
                                                         not yet been authorized

Kota Palembang       - Develop computer-based       A   Some computer-based                                            X   LG commitment had
Pilot Project           complaint system                 complaint system, particularly in                                  been unlikely, by the
Developing public     - Establish internal               kecamatan level does not utilize                                   time of ICR the LG
complaint unit          coordination                  X   Management unit was not                                           will continue to
                      - Establish management unit         established and legal regulation                                  improve the system
                        and internalization               (Perda) was issued                                                with its own budget

Kota Bandar            - Prepare mechanism of         AAA Participatory budgeting has      +  Increase in community     AAA Strong commitment        Became
Lampung  Pilot          participatory budgeting          been carried out successfully in    trust in the government       of government and        require
Project                  process                          the city                                                          non-government           ment of
"Improving             - Conduct trial and make       AAA LG has prepared local                                             stakeholders              other
transparency and         improvement on the process       regulation for the                                                                         project
accountability of      - Internalization                  implementation of the process
local budgeting
process"

Kota Tangerang  Pilot - Develop computer-based       X   Weak internal coordination                                    X   Weak commitment of
Project                  complaint system                 among government agencies                                         LG, at the time of
"Developing public     - Establish internal               hampered the effort to develop                                    ICR the LG allocated
complaint unit for       coordination                     public complaint system                                           some budget to
improving local        - Establish management unit                                                                          improve the system
government               and internalization
performance in
delivering service"

Kota Cirebon         - Establish internal           X   Lack of support from relevant                                  X   Weak commitment of
Pilot Project           coordination among               government agencies,                                               LG
"Promoting              government agencies              hampered the effort to carry out
one-roof permit       - Simplify permit procedure        internal coordination to promote
system"               - Develop one-roof permit          one-roof permit system
                        system

Kabupaten              - Develop GIS-based for land AAA GIS-based permit system has                                     X   Not supported by
Bandung Pilot            utilization permit               been developed and is                                             new internal
Project                - Internalize the system into      functioning                                                       government structure
"Improvement of          the existing one-roof permit X   One-roof permit was abolished
land utilization         system                           due to internal reorganization
permit service by
developing GIS"

Kota Surabaya        - Develop computer-based       A   Computer-based complaint          +  Public complaints are     A   Public complaint




                                                                                     - 49 -

Pilot Project          complaint system                  system has been developed,            recorded and               managed under
"Developing public   - Establish internal                however some of the systems,          performance of each        Dinas Infokom and
complaint unit"        coordination                      particularly in kecamatan level,      agency is monitored by     supported by Mayor
                     - Establish management unit         are still not functioning, due to     the Mayor; public          Decree
                       and internalization               lack of human capacity                complaints are
                                                     A   Operation of public complaint         followed-up faster
                                                         are supported by relevant
                                                         agencies, regulated by a Mayor
                                                         Decree

Kabupaten            - Establish internal            AAA One-roof permit system is          +  Increase number of     AAA Operation of the      Expansi
Sukoharjo  Pilot      coordination among                operational and managed under         customer who received      system is supported     on
Project                government agencies               Kantor (Office) of Integrated         more efficient permit      by Local regulation   system
"Promoting           - Simplify permit     procedure     Permit                                issuances                                           to
one-roof permit      - Develop one-roof       permit A   Wireless on-line system in three                                                       kecama
system"                system                            kecamatans works well                                                                  tan level

Kota Kupang         - Prepare mechanism of          AAA Institutionalization of the                                  AAA Strong commitment              Become
Pilot Project          participatory budgeting           process began with                                               of LG                          require
"Improving             process                           effectiveness of LG regulation                                                                  ment of
transparency and     - Conduct trial and make            regarding participatory                                                                          other
accountability of      improvement on the process        development planning and                                                                        project
local budgeting      - Internalization                   control in June 2003
process"

Kota Tarakan        - Develop inter-agency          AAA Information system has been                                  AAA Strong commitment
Pilot Project          coordination to support           developed, provides various                                      of LG
"Promoting public      integrated information system     information such as potential of
information          - Develop computer-based            the city, government policy, etc.
disclosure by          information system,               The system is managed by
providing              supported by accessible           KPDE (local Office); and
accessible             information kiosks placed in      continuously expanded and
information"           strategic public places           updated, the LG received e-gov
                     - Socialization of the system       awards from the Central
                       to public                         Government
                                                     X   Kiosks have been installed in
                                                         public places, however
                                                         utilization is still low because of
                                                         lack of socialization

Kabupaten Blitar     - Improve services for the      A   Farmers have a monitoring card                               X   Lack of commitment
Developing center of   fishery farmers on the health     for the health of the fish                                       of the LG
fish health            of the fish by providing      X   The facilities have not been
management             laboratory, pharmacy,             fully used by the farmers, as
                       systematic monitoring             there was no serious fish
                       system of fish health and         disease
                       library

Kabupaten            - Prepare city greening         A   City greening guideline            +  Up-grading of some     A   Strong commitment
Purworejo              guideline                         prepared through a participatory      small town gardens by      of the regent (Bupati)
City greening to     - Carry out pilot for the           approach, involving various           private sector             and the stakeholders
improve air quality    implementation                    government and
                                                         non-government stakeholders
                                                     A   Subproject under took town
                                                         square up-grading based on the
                                                         guideline as a pilot

Kota Probolinggo     - Conduct asset inventory and A     Trial of asset inventory data                                A   Strong commitment       n.a
Development of         develop computer-based            base has been under taken and                                    of Mayor; LG plans
asset management       database of assets                is still being developed                                         to disclose the
system to promote    - Establish centralized unit of A   Management unit, which has                                       assets through local
transparent and        asset management                  main responsibility to manage                                    website
accountable                                              all asset has been established
management

Kabupaten            - Prepare Guideline for         A   According to the guideline                                   AAA This is follow-up
Banjarnegara           Landscape development             prepared, subproject up-grades                                   action of the existing
Upgrading            - Carry out pilot to up-grade       landscape of garden in the                                       tourism development
landscape of           some of the tourism               tourism area as pilot                                            under MIP, which
historical cultural    objectives                                                                                         already established
heritage to promote                                                                                                       in terms of its
tourism                                                                                                                   organization
                                                                                                                          structure and




                                                                                      - 50 -

                                                                                                                              institution. Strong
                                                                                                                              commitment of all
                                                                                                                              stakeholder

Kabupaten Boyolali       - Improve networking between A    On-line system to record          +  Reduce in financial leaks A   Strong commitment     n.a
Enhancing                  the central office              monthly revenue from fees         +  Increase in customer          of PDAM and Bupati
administration and         (PDAM-Boyolali) and             collection of each kecamatan is      satisfactory
management of              kecamatan offices by            working well (trial basis)
water utility              developing on-line           A  In order to promote
(PDAM)                     computer-based information      demand-responsive service,
                           system                          Boyolali established "Customer
                         - Promote community               Board" consists 10 of credible
                           participation to improve        person selected based on result
                           public service delivery         of customer survey

Kabupaten Cianjur        - Develop hospital information A  Hospital information system,      +  Better financial records   A  Strong commitment
Development of             system                          which among other provide            and reduced financial         from hospital
computer-based           - computer-based medical,         computer-based records on            leaks                         management and
hospital management        financial and hospital          medical, financial and hospital   +  Better hospital supplies      related government
system                     supplies records                supplies is functioning and still    inventory                     agencies to maintain
                         - Empower the disaster            being improved                    +  Better medical records in     and develop the
                           management team              A  Improvement of disaster              accordance with               system
                                                           management team was carried          international standards
                                                           out through series of trainings   +  Improve in public service
                                                           and improvement of                   and increase "trust: of the
                                                           management system                    customer

Kabupaten                - Establish stakeholder forum X   Stakeholder forum has not been                                  X  Commitment is
Batanghari                                                 established yet, however,                                          unlikely
Development of           - Organizing traders in the new   dialogue with representative of
Self-financing             market of Kramat Tinggi         traders has been undertaken
Market                   - Preparing concept of            many times.Organization of the
Management                 self-finance market             traders in the new market
                           management                      involved more than 500 traders.
                         - Institutionalization of the  A  Almost 100% of the traders
                           concept                         operate in new kiosks
                                                        X  Concept of self-financing
                                                           market management has not
                                                           been prepared

Kota Padang              - Preparing series of dialogue X  Inter-active dialogue was         +  During the project         X  Lack of commitment
Establishing               programs                        carried out in lesser frequency      implementation, the           to continue to
Inter-active Dialogue to - Carrying out regular            than planned due to higher           public had become more        support the activity
promote responsive         inter-active dialogue      on   costs; documentation of the          critical to the LG, and LG
and transparent public     TV                              dialogue was available but not       became more responsive
service delivery         - Establishing management         yet disseminated; management         to the public
                           unit who responsible to         unit to continue this program
                           manage the program              was not assigned yet

Economic Development

Kabupaten Cirebon        - Construction of production   X  Poor construction of production                                 X  Lack of LG
Integrated                 facilities for metal works,     facilities, the production                                         commitment
Economic Area              chicken slaughtering, fish      process only benefits medium
Development to             preservation, and handicrafts   and large scale businessmen
promote rural              production                   X  Management is done by
economic                 - Developing professional         medium & large-scale
development                management unit                 businessmen
                         - Providing revolving capital  X  Revolving scheme failed, lack
                           and involving small-scale       of small-scale producers
                           producers in the program        involvement

Kabupaten                - Up-grading the town square X    The up-graded town square and                                   X  Weak efforts of LG
Wonosobo                   area and constructing           constructed facilities is not                                      to carry out dialogue
Organizing                 appropriate facilities to       utilized yet                                                       with the sidewalk
sidewalk traders for       support sidewalk traders     X  Sidewalk traders still reluctant                                   traders
improving the town       - Sidewalk traders                to utilize facilities provided due
square function            arrangement                     to the rent tariff

Kabupaten Kudus          - Developing partnership       A  MoU to arrange utilization of 4   -  Attractive and strategic   A  Difficult to stop
Partnership                between sidewalk traders        hectares land owned by               location has encouraged       shifting of kiosk
between sidewalk           and National Railway            National Railway Company             shift of kiosks ownership     ownership to
traders and                Company in utilizing an old     (3-yearl lease scheme)               to medium and                 larger-scale traders



                                                                                         - 51 -

National Train           railway track                   X   Each traders purchased kiosk         large-scale traders,
Company to             - Constructing supporting             through small credit scheme          hence some of the target
provide trading          infrastructure and kiosks for AAA Management unit was                    beneficiaries still operate
space                    sidewalk traders                    established (supported by            in the original place
                                                             Bupati Decree) to revolve fund
Kabupaten Brebes       - Purchasing excessive       red  A   Eighteen groups consisting        -  Price stabilization cannot
Utilization of           onion production, particularly      more than 100 producers has          be attained
preservation             during the     high season          been established, however due
technology to          - Developing fried union              lack of input with reassonable
absorb excess            production by providing             price, most of the groups who
onion production         supporting facilities to            are active were only the more
                         small-scale producer groups         established producers; only
                                                             limited number of small
                                                             producers were successfully
                                                             assisted by the subproject
                                                         X   Due to lack of capital, project
                                                             failed to purchase the excess
                                                             production

Kabupaten Sukoharjo - Up-grading the town square AAA Up-graded town square with                +  Better environment of the AAA The process was
Organizing               and providing supporting            supporting facilities has been       town square                    participatory,         (LG plans
sidewalk traders for     facilities for sidewalk traders     utilized as designed under        +  Growth of sidewalk             involving target           to
improving the town     - Sidewalk traders                    management of sidewalk group         traders "trust" to the LG      beneficiaries in the   replicate
square function          arrangement                         management                        +  Existence of sidewalk          decision making           the
                       - Developing sidewalk traders                                              traders gradually              process; self-reliance approach

                         group as management unit                                                 admitted                       management              in other

                                                                                                                                 encourages             location)

                                                                                                                                 ownership of the
                                                                                                                                 beneficiaries

Kota Magelang          - Up-grading peaces of       land A   Up-graded land and kiosks         -  Degradation of quality of X    Poor management of
Organizing               for sidewalk traders,               have been utilized and               the area, as a result of       sidewalk traders
sidewalk traders to      particularly the food vendors,      distributed to the vendors;          disorderly of the vendors,
improve city             and distributing temporary          cooperatives were establised         and new vendors came
environment              kiosks                          X   Unfortunately, due to lack
                       - Organizing the food vendors         facilitation and management,
                         to operate only certain hours       the food vendors operate
                         a day                               almost whole day instead of the
                                                             night time or daytime only

Kabupaten Gianyar      - Empowering existing             AAA LG institutionalized the existing +  Improvement of income       A  Decrease in number
Poverty alleviation      institution dealing with            institution                          of poor households from        of tourist (due to Bali
through provision of     poverty alleviation             AAA Some community received              handicraft selling and         bombing and SARS
small-scale            - Providing micro-credit     and      training to improve their            other small-scale              epidemic) has
revolving capital        capacity building for               production skill, assistance of      economic activities            reduced the poor
                         small-scale and household           production components has                                           revenue and their
                         handicraft industry                 been utilized by small-scale                                        capacity to return the
                                                             industries, particularly                                            revolving funds
                                                             handicraft industry

Kabupaten Pekalongan - Mass cultivation of silkworms X       Silkworm cultivation faced
Local economic           by local farmers                    difficulties, due to inappropriate
development by         - Improving production       and      season
enhancing small-scale    standardizing quality of silk X     Production has stopped
silk thread industries   thread

Kabupaten Sikka        - Establishing women artisans AAA Twenty groups (consists of 200 +         Better quality of product - X  Cooperative is not
Empowering               groups and building their           members) established, and            Improvement of artisan's       functioning
women artisans of        capacity                            involved in training to improve      income
traditional weaving    - Improvement of production           production process and
for improving their      process                             products
production and         - Providing production facilities AAA Most of the groups have
incomes                  for each group                      produced traditional weaving
                       - Developing women artisans       X   Cooperative is not active,
                         cooperative to revolve              product selling is under taken
                         working capital and other           by each group or individual
                         activities                          artisan

DI Yogyakarta          - Empowering culture society AAA Local artisans were trained and                                       A  LG commits to
Conserving traditional - Developing networking to            assisted to improve their                                           develop tourism
culture to promote       promote the tourism       sector    performance                                                         sector by sustaining
local economy and                                        AAA Network with tourism                                                the program
                                                             association and other relevant




                                                                                         - 52 -

sustain tourism sector
                                                         actors has been developed
Kota Banjarmasin      - Building the capacity of poor A  Selection of target beneficiaries +  Some poor unemployed A     LG and local
Developing              woman groups in Kota             was based on the result of           women work in the          parliament are
water-hyacinth          Banjarmasin                      social mapping, conducted by         industry                   committed to
handicraft to         - Develop simple and               non-government facilitators 30 +     During the last three      supporting the
promote local           small-scale handicraft           poor women in 6 groups               months, some               activity, in order to
economic                industry                         received training and technical      participants earned        alleviate poverty
development                                              assistance in producing              additional income of up
                                                         handicraft items from water          to Rp. 15,000 per month
                                                         hyacinths
                                                      A  The groups received working
                                                         capital including supporting
                                                         facilities for production placed in
                                                         a workshop

Kabupaten Batang      - Preparing guideline for      A  Through participatory                                         A  Strong commitment
Managing the             managing sidewalk traders      approach, guideline of sidewalk                                  of stakeholders
sidewalk traders to      in Limpung city                traders management was
tidy up the city      - Carrying out pilot in           prepared
                         managing the traders        A  Pilot project carried out in the
                                                        town square area

Notes:
1)       Outcomes : AAA Significant; A                  Modest; X Very limited or none
2)       Impacts : + Potential positive impacts; - Potential negative/unintended impacts
3)       Sustainability : AAA Significant; A Modest; X Very limited or none




                                                                                      - 53 -

Additional Annex 13. Workshops Conducted



Workshop     Topic and Objective       Speakers and               Workshop Design               Workshop Results
                                       Participants

Workshop I   Topic :                   Speakers :                Presentations :
25-27 June   Innovation of Urban       Bappenas                  Policy and theory of           Comprehensive
2000         Management and            Universities              innovation, examples of        information on
Wonosobo     Governance                MoHA                      innovative LGs (with the       innovation concepts

             Objective :               LGs in the process of     objective to urge LGs to       and examples.

             To encourage LG           innovating in urban       innovate and answer the        LGs very receptive to
             managers to develop       management and            challenges of autonomy and     this innovation
             and implement             governance                decentralization, without      concept and pleased
             innovative ideas in       (Padang, Banjarnegara,    waiting for instructions from  to note that MoHA is
             urban management and      Wonosobo, Surabaya etc.) central government).            granting them this
             governance                Participants :            Focus group discussions :      discretion to develop

                                       Mayors/Regents,           Innovations envisioned by      their ideas.

                                       Regional Secretaries and LGs, in the fields of           Urban managers need
                                       regional parliamentarians environmental management,      longer be afraid to
                                       from 65 LGs (MIP &        services to the public, and    test new approaches
                                       non MIP) , provincial     governance. Focus on need      in urban governance,
                                       government, NGOs,         for innovation, and on ways to even in the absence
                                       universities, GTZ,        obtain the necessary political of regulations and
                                       BUILD project             support from local             guidelines from
                                                                 parliaments.                   central government.

                                                                                                Regional parliaments
                                                                                                support innovations if
                                                                                                they are potentially
                                                                                                beneficial to the
                                                                                                public.

Workshop II Topic :                    Speakers :                Presentations :
28 June 2000 Operational               Project Management        Project management with loan Clarity regarding
Wonosobo     Stabilization of the      Unit                      funding, accounting and        project management
             MIP                                                 reporting, procurement, etc.   requirements and

             Objective :               Participants :            Focus group discussions :      related guidelines.

             To inform LGs on          MIP sub-project
             procurement guidelines, managers     and treasurers Efficient fund disbursement    Agreement on format
                                                                 mechanisms, and on more        and contents of the
             disbursement                                        effective monitoring and       implementation
             mechanisms, and                                     controlling techniques         guidelines to be
             operationalization of                                                              issued by PMU, to
             Management                                                                         facilitate efficient and
             Information Systems                                                                correct project
                                                                                                management

Workshop III Topic :                   Speakers :                Presentations :
25-26 June   Innovation in self-       Bappenas                  The importance of involving    Enhanced clarity on
2001         reliant LG management Universities                  the private sector and the     the potential from the
Denpasar     in the era of autonomy MoHA                         public in regional             private sector's side

             Objective :               Independent experts       development.                   to participate in

             To create a will and a    Private sector                                           innovative programs
             capability to innovate in LGs  that have innovated  LGs will not be able to
                                                                 achieve full regional          by LGs;

             self-reliant LG           or are innovating in      development from their own     More synchronized
             management;               self-reliant management   resources only.                perceptions between

             To assist in the          Participants :            Involvement of, and            LG and private sector



                                                            - 54 -

           preparation of realistic Mayors/ Regents,          cooperation and trust between,  regarding cooperation

           action plans that        Regional Secretaries,     private sector, LGs, and        and participation

           consider the potential   regional parliamentarians general public (community) is   opportunities.

           and the constraints of a from 65 LGs (MIP &        essential for participation,
           LG.                      non MIP) , private
                                    sector, NGOs              transparency, and
                                                              effectiveness                   Enhanced clarity on
                                                              Focus Group Discussion :        the part of urban
                                                              Innovative forms of             managers regarding
                                                              cooperation between LGs and possible cooperation
                                                              the public, with examples;      models, including

                                                              Suitable fields for private     practical examples;

                                                              sector participation;           Enhanced clarity

                                                              Need for full transparency in   regarding improved

                                                              cooperation models between      program packaging;

                                                              LGs and the private sector, in Strong support of
                                                              order to obtain the necessary   regional
                                                              political support from regional parliamentarians for
                                                              parliaments and from the        cooperation with
                                                              public;                         private sector, as long

                                                              Need for open and               as transparency and

                                                              comprehensive packaging of      accountability are

                                                              cooperation opportunities, in   guaranteed.

                                                              order to attract private sector
                                                              resources

Workshop IV Topic :                 Speakers :                Presentations :
Surabaya   Developing continuous Bappenas                     Concepts of continuous          LGs expressed great
12-15 Aug. innovation               Experts from universities innovation                      satisfaction about this
2002       Objective :              Representatives of LGs    Examples of successful and      learning opportunity

           Identifying the most     that conducted successful                                 and the workshop
           appropriate solutions to innovations, and of LGs   unsuccessful innovations        design

           achieve continuous       that conducted            (under MIP)

           innovation towards an    unsuccessful innovations Focus Group Discussion :

           urban vision.            and can share their       Examples of successful and      Poster exhibition was
                                    experience                unsuccessful innovations, and very much welcomed
                                                              lessons derivable from them     and appreciated
                                    Participants :
                                    Mayors/ Regents ,         Field Trip :
                                    Regional Secretaries,     2 MIP subprojects in            Field trips and
                                    Regional parliamentarians Surabaya (public information    project visits to
                                    from 75 LGs (MIP &        system, and complaint           Surabaya and
                                    non MIP) , subproject     handling), and 1 MIP            Sidoarjo were found
                                    managers and treasurers, subproject in Sidoarjo (public very informative and
                                    provincial government,    library)                        beneficial
                                    private sector, NGOs.     Exhibition :
                                                              Posters on successful and
                                                              unsuccessful innovations,       Participants proposed
                                                              complete with contact details   that MoHA conduct
                                                              at LG concerned (MIP            this kind of workshop
                                                              participants)                   on a regular and

                                                              Product samples of MIP          recurrent basis

                                                              subprojects (fertilizer
                                                              production in Lampung,
                                                              tourism in Gowa, automatic
                                                              information media with
                                                              computer and touch screen in




                                                         - 55 -

                                                               Surabaya)

Workshop V Topic :                 Speakers :                  Presentation of winners of
Bali       Developing a culture of SIRIM Malaysia:             the Award-of-Excellence        Participants
10-13 June innovation - towards    Standardization of          Program :                      expressed
2003       better governance       municipal services, using Presentation of award for        appreciation of this
                                   ISO and Malaysian           innovative projects (3         opportunity to learn
           Objective :             standards                   subprojects of the MIP,        and exchange
           To provide lessons and                              namely Wonosobo, Kota          experiences,
           enrichment to the       Municipality Kuching        Sukabumi, and Gianyar; and     including with
           process of innovation   Utara (Malaysia):           2 projects from outside the    foreign partners
           at local, national, and experience in obtaining     MIP, namely Sidoarjo and
           international scale.    and maintaining ISO                                        Information to urban
                                   certification               Sleman) by the Minister of
                                                               Home Affairs                   managers on

                                   World Bank (consultant):                                   innovations that have

                                   Good management of          Presentations :                become sustainable

                                   land assets by LGs          (see "Speakers")               and "have taken root"
                                                                                              in Indonesian and
                                   LG Boyolali:                                               Malaysian LGs.
                                   Organizational              Focus Group Discussion :

                                   innovations in the water    Innovations that are           Expressed desire to

                                   supply sector               sustainable and have taken     establish cooperation
                                                               root (by sector: environmental models between LGs
                                   General Hospital Cianjur: management, municipal
                                   Innovations in hospital     services, governance, and      LGs expressed hope

                                   management                  economic development)          that MoHA could
                                                                                              stage similar
                                   LG Kota Blitar: (non MIP                                   workshops regularly
                                   project) : Participa-tory   Field Trip :                   in the future
                                   preparation of city         To Gianyar (MIP subproject

                                   development strategy        on revolving program and
                                                               economic development) and
                                   Provincial government       to Denpasar (Non-MIP
                                   Bali (non MIP project):     project on participatory
                                   Innovations in              mechanisms for land
                                   procurement                 acquisition)

                                   LG Denpasar (non-MIP
                                   project): Participa-tory    Exhibition :

                                   mechanisms for land         Like in Workshop IV but

                                   acquisition                 expanded to 12 exhibitors and
                                                               the Award-of-Excellence
                                   LG Pontianak :              Program
                                   Developing the local
                                   econ-omy and transparent
                                   procurement processes

                                   Participants :
                                   Mayors/ Regents ,
                                   Regional Secretaries,
                                   Regional
                                   parliamentarians from 88
                                   LGs, (MIP & non MIP)
                                   subproject managers and
                                   treasurers, provincial
                                   government, private
                                   sector, NGOs.




                                                          - 56 -

Additional Annex 14. Structure of Website


                                                                                   PUBLIC SERVICES


                                                                       OPERATION AND MANAGEMENT


                                                                          SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT

                                                SUBPROJECTS
                                                                                      ENVIRONMENT


                                                                                     EMPOWERMENT


                                                                            TOURISM DEVELOPMENT
                                PROJECT
                              INFORMATION

                                                SUBPROJECT DISTRIBUTION BY PROVINCE


                                                 WORKSHOPS
                                                                             IN-COUNTRY TRAINING

                                                  TRAININGS
                                                                     OVERSEAS ON-THE-JOB TRAINING



                                                JUROR & AWARDS     PROFILE OF AWARDED INNOVATIONS



                                                 NEWSLETTER           13 EDITIONS OF NEWSLETTER
MUNICIPAL INNOVATION
      PROJECT                  PROGRAMS
                                                 ACTION PLAN          POST ON-THE-JOB TRAINING
           HOT NEWS                                                           ACTIVITIES



                                                LOCAL GOVERNMENT                   PERFORMANCE
                                                  PERFORMANCE                      IMPROVEMENT

                                                    INDICATORS

                                                                               LOCAL GOVERNMENTS'
                                                                                    CONCERNS


                                                                                  PERFORMANCE
                                                                              MEASUREMENT METHOD

                             SUCCESS STORIES



                               MANAGEMENT


                               OTHER LINKS




                                          - 57 -

Additional Annex 15. Specimen of Newsletter




                                         - 58 -

- 59 -

Additional Annex 16. Training

In-country Training

1. Training in Management Information Systems

    Conducted:       Jakarta, May 2000

    Participants:    Subproject managers, treasurers, and IT operators from all MIP subprojects

     Trainers:       PMU and PMU Advisory Consultant (IT specialist)

     Topics:          l Introduction to, and handling of, MIS software
                      l Filling-out of forms for correspondence and monitoring reports from local governments to
                         central government
                      l Using the modem
                      l Maintenance and minor troubleshooting for the MIS software
                      l Hardware maintenance for the MIS

    Results:         Training was apparently successful, as indicated by trials in North Jakarta, East Jakarta, Kota
                     Bogor, Kabupaten Bogor, and Kota Tangerang. However, with the restructuring of local
                     governments in early 2001, many trainees were transferred to other positions, and the system did
                     not really run well.


2. Training in Fund Disbursement

    Conducted:       Jakarta, November 2000

    Participants:    Subproject managers and treasurers from all MIP subprojects

     Trainers:       PMU

     Topics:          l Implementation guidelines for projects funded from foreign loans
                      l Understanding and disbursing SPABP funds
                      l Innovative features of fund disbursement in the MIP (channeling directly from regional treasury
                         office to subproject managers' accounts, with possibility of paying consultants,
                      l contractors, and suppliers directly)
                      l Accounting and financial monitoring
                      l Fund disbursement for pilot projects (from Jakarta)
                      l Filling-out forms for SPM-LS applications

    Results:         Training was apparently successful; subproject managers and treasurers understand the system
                     and the implications of being directly responsible for the funds transferred to accounts under their
                     control


3. Training in Preparation of Financial Accounting Reports (LPJP)

    Conducted:      Jakarta, August 2001

    Participants:   Subproject managers and treasurers from all MIP subprojects

     Trainers:      PMU

     Topics:          l Essential features of financial monitoring
                      l Correct preparation of monthly financial accounting reports (LPJP), with details and summaries
                         of transactions, consistently and timely (because related to auditing by BPKP)
                      l Endorsement of financial accounting reports by the Mayor / Regent

    Results:        Training was successful; treasurers understood the accounting forms and mechanisms, and used
                    them until the end of the project.




                                                         - 60 -

Overseas On the Job Training.

Stratification

In accordance with the Bank's wish, this training activity was divided into two clusters, namely
l    training for regional secretaries (with a focus on political leadership)
l    training for other participants (with a focus on technical matters)


Selection Criteria

The EA set the guidelines for the training as follows
l    training is envisaged by MoHA in certain fields, with study tours to Malaysia (municipalities of Kota
     Kinabalu, Kuching Utara, and Kuching Selatan);
l    trainees must be permanent civil servants with university degrees, minimum level echelon IV;
l    field of training, education of trainee, and position of trainee must be consistent;
l    permission of regent/mayor is required;
l    after the training, the trainee has to prepare an innovative action plan which should reflect the contents of the
     training.

The EA then circulated these criteria, setting a two weeks deadline for registration. 112 applications were received,
and the trainees were selected from these through a careful screening of all relevant individual data. Eventually, 8
regional secretaries were selected for training in Kota Kinabalu, 48 other candidates were selected for training in
Kuching Utara and Kuching Selatan, and 4 persons were selected for a special training at the Sarawak State
Library (Malaysia).


Feedback

The training participants acknowledged the performance of the civil servants in the three municipalities visited,
especially in their application of quality assurance standards in the delivery of municipal services.
l   Malaysian municipal administrations have developed a culture of developing, applying, and evaluating new
    ideas.
l   There is mutual respect between the various ethnic groups within the government and in the public.
l   Malaysian civil servants speak English as a second language and are very "computer minded".
l   Malaysian municipal administrations command a high respect in the eyes of the public, all regulations are
    implemented consistently in the field, and the rule of law is upheld consistently.
l   The public has a high awareness of the law.
l   All levels of bureaucracy, from lowest to highest, work towards the same objective.
l   Complaints from the public are paid high attention and are followed up consistently.
l   Project tendering is done very transparently, and municipalities have the courage to fine contractors who
    violate the contract.
l   The business community trusts the credibility of the municipalities in accrediting businesses.

Follow-up


Overseas           Participants        Field of Training    Trainer / Training    Innovative concepts developed as
on-the-job                                                  Institution           follow-up of the training
training (OJT)

Municipality Kota 8 regional           Theory and           Trainer:              Cultural heritage preservation to
Kinabalu,          secre-taries from 8 application of ISO                         increase tourism (LG Tanah Datar)
Malaysia           LG and 2            9001 (2000); OJT     SIRIM Berhad (Agency
                                                            for Standardization)  Management of protected areas to
22 Sept. - 3 Oct.  counter-parts from  in various units of                        increase tourism (LG Papua)
2002               MoHA                Kota Kinabalu        OJT: (a) Sabah
                                       Municipality         Tourism Promotion     Enhancing government hospital
                                                            Board, (b)            services (LG Cianjur)
                                                            En-vironmental



                                                          - 61 -

                                                           Agency, (c) SIRIM     Managing protected forest and

                                                           office                increase tourism (LG Alor)

                                                                                 Using water hyacinths for income
                                                                                 generation and environmental
                                                                                 protection (LG Banjarmasin)

                                                                                 (these programs were to be funded
                                                                                 from regional budgets and from the
                                                                                 MIP)

Municipality       17 civil servants    OJT in             Various agencies of   Landscaping concept (LG
Kuching Utara      from various LG      management of      Kuching Utara         Banjarnegara)
(Phase I)                               public parks, O &  Municipality         Asset management concept (LG Kota
4 Oct. - 1 Nov.                         M, redesignated 0                       Probolinggo)
2002                                    & M, and
                                        management of                           (these programs were to be funded
                                        public complaints                       from regional budgets and from the
                                                                                MIP)

Municipality       21 civil servants    OJT in             Various agencies of   Management of sidewalk traders in
Kuching Selatan    from various LG      management of      Kuching Selatan       Kota Limpung (LG Batang)

2-28 November      and 1 counterpart    public parks, O &  Municipality          Management of public green space
2002               from MoHA            M, redesignated 0
                                        & M, and                                 (LG Purworejo)

                                        management of                            Veterinary service for Koi fish, to
                                        public complaints                        boost local economy and tourism
                                                                                 (LG Kabupaten Blitar)

                                                                                 Improved handling of complaints
                                                                                 (Water utility of LG Boyolali)

Municipality       10 civil servants    OJT in             Various agencies of   Improved handling of complaints
Kuching Utara      from various LG      management of      Kuching Utara         (LG Tangerang)
(Phase II)         and 1 counterpart    public parks, O &  Municipality

25 March - 15      from MoHA            M, redesignated 0

April 2003                              & M, and
                                        management of
                                        public complaints

Sarawak State      4 librarians (2 from Library            Sarawak State Library English language club, introduction
Library            Wonosobo, 1 from     Management                               of IT, expansion of premises, use of

25 March - 15      Aceh Barat, 1 from   IT for Libraries                         multimedia (LG Wonosobo,

April 2003         Sidoarjo)                                                     planning to use regional budget)
                                        Developing
                                        Libraries                                IT & Multimedia development (LG
                                                                                 Sidoarjo)

LG = Local Government




                                                         - 62 -

Additional Annex 17. Awards of Excellence Program


Introduction

The Awards-of-Excellence Program is a project component aimed at encouraging improved municipal practices by
promoting innovations in urban management. Originally, and even before MIP was launched, the program was
designed to be carried out regularly by non-government institutions, independent of the MIP, with support from
independent and credible resources. This idea was conceived on the basis of a similar program in the Philippines.
Later on, the award program was incorporated in the MIP.

The Awards-of-Excellence Program under the MIP was carried out in 2003, and involved high profile, credible
and independent jurors from universities and from the professional world. Five innovations submitted by five local
governments received awards. Details of the process follow.

The Process

1.  Selection of credible jurors
    The selection of jurors was started with preparation of terms of reference in 2002. This was intended to help
    find credible and independent jurors for the evaluation of submissions. A long list of candidates was prepared
    by PMU, based on the expressed preferences of the local governments, of other participants of the first MIP
    workshop, and of central government. Through intensive consultations with various candidates, the PMU
    explored the availability and willingness of 12 candidates to be independent jurors. Eight candidates expressed
    their interest and availability to carry out the award activity.
    The selected eight jurors were well known university lecturers, credible professionals/consultants, or
    high-profile NGO figures of national and international reputation. The seven selected jurors were: Prof. Ir.
    Eko Budihardjo (Rector of Diponegoro University  Semarang); Prof. Dr. Ichlasul Amal MA (former Rector of
    University Gajahmada  Yogyakarta); Prof. Dr. Gede Raka and Prof. Dr. Tommy Firman (Institute of
    Technology Bandung), Anugerah Pekerti PhD, Ir. Hendropranoto Suselo MPW, and Ir. M. Hatta Ahadis
    (Professional/consultant), and Maria Hartiningsih (KOMPAS national daily).

2.  Preparation of criteria for best innovations
    The PMU gave full authority to the panel to prepare selection criteria, without any intervention by PMU at all,
    something which had not been done before. The panel agreed that the awards were not to be given to the three
    best innovations overall, but to be given to the best innovations based on certain categories. This concept
    emerged to maintain the "uniqueness" of each submission, and to cover various kinds of innovations. At the
    end of a fruitful discussion, the panel came up with 5 criteria for 5 categories, as follows:


    Criteria                                                                   Categories

    1.  Sustainability                                                         l Institutional development
    2.  Quality of the process                                                 l Public service
    3.  Efficiency                                                             l Resource management
    4.  Innovation and uniqueness of the idea / implementation                 l Community empowerment
    5.  Community empowerment                                                  l Environmental management



3.  Selection process
    The selection process was designed to be as transparent and accountable as possible, starting from invitation
    through a well-known national newspaper (KOMPAS). Eighty-six innovations from 27 kabupatens and 23
    kotas from all over the country were submitted. Some local governments proposed more than one innovation.
    From the 86 submissions, the panel selected a short-list of 13 submissions from 11 local governments.
    Following that, each of the 11 shortlisted local governments was invited to give a short presentation to the
    panel for assessment and evaluation. As a result of this, the panel came up with 5 nominations of which 3
    nominations were innovations initiated under the MIP  to be verified through field visits by the panel.
    Finally, after this verification process and after intensive discussions, the panel decided to give awards to the 5



                                                          - 63 -

   nominations. The panel then submitted its conclusion and proposal to PMU/MoHA for preparing the
   Ministerial Decree to declare the 5 local governments as winners of the MIP award. The other 8 nominations
   were given honorable mentions.

   The Minister of Home Affairs then conferred the award to the 5 winners at the fifth project workshop in Bali
   in June 2003, which was attended by more than 200 participants, from central government, local governments,
   donor agencies, and officials of the Government of Malaysia. Each winning local government received a
   comparative study to Malaysia and the Philippines, in which government officials and beneficiaries were to
   participate.

   The list of MIP award winners is as follows:

  Kota/Kabupaten          Innovation                                                    Category

   Kab. Sleman            Inter-regional Cooperation on Urban Infrastructure and        Institutional development
                          Facility Management
   Kab. Gianyar           Urban Poverty Alleviation by Improving Household              Institutional Development
                          Welfare through the `Gerakan Gianyar Sejahtera'
   Kota Sukabumi          Improved Handling of Solid Waste for Reducing                 Environmental Protection
                          Environmental Pollution
   Kab. Wonosobo          Development and Improvement of Public Library                 Public Service

                          Services in Wonosobo

   Kab. Sidoarjo          Center of Woman and Children Protection                       Community empowerment


4. Publication of awards
   In order to encourage innovations in the long run and disseminate profile of innovations of the five winners of
   MIP awards, the result was published through a widely circulated national newspaper (KOMPAS).

   The program attracted the attention of many local governments, which is indicated by increased requests from
   local governments to participate in the program. This program is attractive to local governments because of its
   focus on innovations and because of the transparent and competitive manner in which it was conducted. Many
   local governments, particularly those participated in the fifth workshop where the award was given by the
   Minister to the winning local governments urged central government to continue this program on a regular
   basis.




                                                      - 64 -

Additional Annex 18. Case Studies

In this annex, several case studies are presented. Some of these describe how MIP subprojects have been
successful in terms of technical outcome, organizational arrangements, and likely sustainability. Such
positive examples are the revitalization of the public library in Wonosobo (Central Java), the production of
biogas from cattle manure in Kabupaten Semarang (Central Java), and the establishment of a one-stop
permit issuing office in Kota Malang (East Java). These subprojects can be considered fully successful.
Other subprojects may not have been technically fully successful by the end of the MIP, but the initiated
innovations point in the right direction and appear sustainable, with the implication that the technical
success can reasonably be expected some time in the near future. Examples for this are the establishment of
a computer-based information system for landuse and building permits in Denpasar (Bali) and the
introduction of a more participatory approach for the preparation of the annual local government budget in
Kota Bandar Lampung (Lampung, Sumatra). The case study from Tanjung Pinang (Riau, Sumatra)
describes a subproject that failed to deliver the planned physical output but still constitutes an important
political innovation. These subprojects can be considered partially successful.
On the other hand, the case study from Majalengka (West Java) describes a totally failed attempt to
improve the management of municipal solid waste through the introduction of composting and recycling.
This subproject was clearly unsuccessful in every aspect, but its failure can still provide some valuable
lessons.


Revitalization of the Public Library in Wonosobo


Wonosobo is a medium sized town in the mountains of Central Java, fairly far away from any major city,
not located on one of the trunk routes, and not in any way special or exceptional. Since 1990, it had a small
public library that had originally been established by a charity foundation (Yayasan III-17 Jakarta) in a
building of 400 m2 floor area. This library existed for a number of years, but never really developed to any
significant degree. Its stock of books remained stagnant at about 2,500, the number of registered members
remained stagnant at a few hundred only, and the number of books borrowed remained more or less
stagnant as well. The stagnation of the Wonosobo public library seemed to be a typical chicken-and-egg
story: funding for the library was minimal because the library was not seen as very beneficial or "wanted"
by the public, and the public indeed did not utilize the library much, which was generally attributed to its
being so small and unattractive. Local government budget for the library operation was a mere Rp. 500,000
in 1991, then rose to Rp. 1,500,000 in 1995 but dropped back to Rp. 750,000 in 1996. Only 5 staff were
employed specifically for the library.

Things might have remained like this for many more years, if not somebody had the hunch that the poor
utilization of the library was perhaps not so much a result of its small size, but a result of its very limited
opening hours: the library, being staffed by local government servants, had the same opening hours as the
other local government offices - from 08:00 to 14:00 every working day.

So, in 1998, local government took the first step towards revitalizing the library: it extended the opening
hours until 17:00 every working day. This seemingly small change triggered a whole series of
developments, at whose end we now see a well functioning and very popular public library. With the
extended opening hours, the library became much more accessible for school students and working adults
who had previously been virtually excluded. The increased accessibility manifested itself very quickly in
increased utilization. The rapid and significant increase in visitors to the library made local government
aware of the latent potential of this institution, and of the need to develop this potential.

Local government realized that a public library can be a very effective lever to enhance the quality of the



                                                       - 65 -

human resources of the region, as it can provide educational materials to the public at large. A public
library is an institution that is, in principle, widely known (every elementary school possesses a library,
even if it is of poor standard). Also, the management of public libraries is usually not very much affected
by practices of collusion, corruption, and nepotism. Local government thus decided to revitalize the library,
and in fact all libraries in its area, and to establish a network of libraries, in an effort to enhance human
resources. Systematic promotion of the library was conducted, and its staff, notably three former
elementary school teachers, worked hard for its better utilization.

An immediate effect of the library's suddenly surging popularity was, that its physical facilities and its
service capacities turned out to be insufficient to cope with the increase. With the launching of the MIP in
1999, local government proposed and succeeded to include the revitalization of the Wonosobo public
library as a subproject in the MIP. From then onward, the library developed rapidly, as is shown by the
following key indicators:

Table : Key Indicators of the Development of Wonosobo Public Library 1999 - 2003

Item                                                    1999       2000           2001           2002     2003

Registered members                                       561        723           1,633         4,074      n.a.
Visitors                                              35,695     67,280        154,255        402,905      n.a.
Borrowers                                              5,597      6,107          12,463        80,873      n.a.
Books borrowed                                        11,246     12,426          25,418       130,818      n.a.
Staff                                                     10          10             20            20       38
Funds from routine budget (Rp. million)                   4.0      10.0            30.0          62.5      99.1
Funds from development budget (Rp. million)               5.0      25.0           105.0         180.0     402.4

Total funds (Rp. million)                                 9.0      35.0           135.0         242.5     501.5


In 2000, the opening hours of the library were extended till 21:00 every working day, and since 2001 the
library is open even on Sundays and on most public holidays. The stock of books has increased to about
25,000 (15,000 different titles), which represents a ten-fold increase since the mid-1990s, and a separate
section offering CDs has been established. The floor space of the library building was expanded by 225
m2, to more than 150% of its previous size. More furniture was provided, and an internet facility, a
photocopying facility and a canteen were added. Books are now fitted with bar codes, and a computerized
borrowing system with scanners has been introduced. To attract more people to the library and to
encourage people's interest in reading, special reader groups and English club were established. There are
plans to expand the building to a triple-story structure in 2004, and to develop libraries at sub-district (
kecamatan) level.

In its institutional status, the library has now been upgraded to a "kantor" (office) in its own right whilst in
1990 it had only been a "UPTD" (technical sub-unit of a line agency, in this case the Education and
Culture Agency), and it had been upgraded to a "kantor" and downgraded again to a "UPTD" in between.
A "kantor" has much more authority to design and implement its own policies and plans. Also, a dedicated
budget can clearly be allocated to a "kantor", and the budgeted funds can not easily be diverted away from
their intended use, as is the case where an implementing agency is merely a technical sub-unit of another,
bigger line agency.

The library has played a pioneering role, and its successful development was followed by a training course
for library managers in the regency. This training was extended to 80 librarians from schools, village
administrations, and other local level agencies. Further non-formal support activities followed. The library
was visited by government's librarians of Selayar (Sulawesi) under a comparative study activity. Private
parties have expressed an interest in opening libraries. Local government urges its employees to donate
books, and the public is beginning to donate books, too. Networking with several publishers has been



                                                        - 66 -

developed, to maintain up-dated/recent book collections. The library now attempts to create spill-over
effects by encouraging to public to write, in order to develop the local human resources further.

The revitalization of the Wonosobo public library has been one of the MIP's prominent success stories. It
was triggered by the belief that is stagnating existence was not an inevitable situation, and that there was a
potential to improve it and make it play a crucial role in the development of human resources. Continued
political support, manifested in adequate funding, now seems a very realistic prospect, and the
sustainability of this initiative is very likely. Also, this initiative was neither prohibitively costly nor
excessively complex, and it is a model that can be replicated elsewhere with very reasonable resource input.


Producing Biogas From Livestock Manure As Energy Alternative For Domestic Users And Home
Industry in Kabupaten Semarang


Background and Objective

The dairy cattle industry is a significant component of the agricultural sector in the regency ("Kabupaten")
Semarang, Central Java. The districts (Kecamatan) Ungaran, Getasan and Tengaran are three out of
number of districts in the regency that are well known as centers of dairy cattle rearing. In these districts
there are more than 24,000 dairy cattle, and they produce approx. 480 tons of manure every day. The cattle
are typically kept in small sheds adjacent to the owners' house in a high density settlement, and there used
to be no place where the manure could be disposed of. This caused environmentally hazardous conditions
that endangered the health of the cattle themselves, and caused odor nuisance to the villagers. Only some of
this manure is utilized as organic fertilizer for snakeskin fruit plantations owned by local farmers.

Local Government of Kabupaten Semarang proposed to reduce the volume of unutilized manure by
processing it into biogas. The original main objective was, to improve environmental conditions. Later it
was considered that biogas could be an alternative energy source for domestic purposes and small scale
industries.

In the three kecamatans, there are also numerous home industries and small-scale industries, amongst
others milk pasteurization, traditional production of brown palm sugar, and other food industries, which are
not only consumed locally but exported to other region as well. Previously, these industries, just like the
households in the area used kerosene, firewood or Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) as their source of energy.
For lighting, some households that do not yet have electricity used kerosene lamps. Firewood was obtained
from local traders or from the forests adjacent to the settlement area. Fuel is a major item of household
expenditure, and of small scale industries' business operation costs, and the uncontrolled extraction of
firewood from the surrounding forests is environmentally problematic.

Implementation

Originally, the villagers responded to the idea of converting manure to biogas with skepticism and
reluctance. The project then arranged for a study trip to Boyolali (elsewhere in Central Java) where biogas
production has taken place for some time. The discussions with the farmers there convinced the villagers of
the project area of the benefits of biogas production. The cattle owners enthusiasm fully evolved after the
successful construction of the first pilot unit in the area.

Through partnership with a reputable national NGO, the government developed biogas production on a
small scale. As a first step, 60 dairy cattle owners, each owning 3 to 12 cows, a shed and a minimum of 40
square meters of land, were selected. They formed groups of 10 cattle owners each, and each household
now possesses a biogas production unit. A unit costs about Rp. 6-7.5 million (US$700-850), depending on



                                                         - 67 -

size. Under the project, 63 units were constructed (against an original target of 60 units). For the
construction, specialized craftsmen recommended by the NGO were used, after an open advertising
campaign had revealed that, for this specialized kind of work, there were no sufficiently qualified and
experienced craftsmen in the project area.

More units shall be constructed by other cattle owners, with a revolving financing, whereby each cattle
owner would receive the materials for the construction (about 60% of the total cost) on loan and provide
the labor from his own resources. The loan installments would be used to finance more units, and so on.
Local government also plans to construct more units from its own budget.

Benefits

The project achieved its primary objective of improving environmental conditions and veterinary health for
the cattle of the participating owners. It also achieved several secondary / additional benefits, which are
shown in the following table, based a number of interviews with the beneficiaries in the three kecamatans:


Item                            Benefits

1. Environment                  Cleaner and healthier environment (the cattle manure used to cause a very disturbing odor,
                                particular during the dry season).
                                Healthier cattle, and reduced cost for veterinary care.
                                Reduced deforestation, since biogas replaces firewood as fuel source.

2. Savings in fuel supply costs Chicken boiling industry : cost savings of Rp. 75,000 to Rp. 100,000 per month for
                                purchasing firewood, or 2-3 LPG bottles per month

                                Milk pasteurization industry : cost savings of 80 liters kerosene per month

                                Domestic purposes : cost savings of about Rp. 75,000 per month for purchasing firewood or
                                kerosene

3. Quality of home industry     Biogas gives a more stable heat than firewood, which improves the quality of home industry
   products                     products like pasteurized milk, brown palm sugar, and boiled chicken

4. Household lighting           Some of households use biogas energy for their pressure lanterns, which provides brighter
                                light than kerosene

5. Productivity of local        The residue from biogas production can be utilized to fertilize snakeskin fruit and banana
   plantations                 plantations. This fertilizer has better qualities than chemical Urea fertilizer or ordinary
                               organic fertilizer. Using fertilizer from biogas production residues, the plantations produce
                               more bananas and sweeter snakeskin fruit. At the same time, there is a cost saving.


Local government disseminated the biogas program to the cattle owners in the three kecamatans. Learning
from the success of the participating cattle owners, a chicken rearer owning more than 1,000 chickens
developed, on his own initiative, a larger biogas construction unit, using chicken manure as main input, and
succeeded.
The utilization of biogas for cooking etc. requires special burners that are different from kerosene or LPG
burners. The NGO was instrumental in providing these burners to the interested households.

Fuel cost savings may very well become an increasingly important factor in the decision-making of the
cattle owners, because the Indonesian government plans to gradually reduce the subsidies on other fuels
(kerosene, LPG). Subsidies on chemical fertilizer are to be reduced as well.
Biogas production is so far not feasible with small units. At least 3 heads of cattle are required to make one
installation feasible. Therefore, it will be a challenge of the future to provide small cattle owners with
access to this beneficial technology.

The One-Roof Permit Issuing System in Malang City


                                                            - 68 -

Background and General Aspects

The program to create one-roof permit issuing systems, also known as UPT (short for Unit Pelayanan
Terpadu), in local governments is to create one single office, complete with the necessary equipment, which
would issue several kinds of documents, mainly permits and licenses frequently required by the public or by
the business sector. The idea is, to provide the public with a better and more transparent service, based on
clear information regarding the administrative requirements, the time needed, and the cost involved for the
issuing of each type of document. Also, the program should increase the transparency of operations and the
accountability of individual local government offices.

Previously, all kinds of documents, permits, and licenses were issued by a multitude of local government
agencies. The geographical scattering of the issuing services often meant excessive traveling for the
applicant. The administrative scattering made it difficult to monitor the kind and number of documents
issued by local government in total, and to reconcile this number with the total amount of fees to be
collected. Accidental or deliberate mismatches between the two were very common, and the potential for
corruption was very substantial. The documentation techniques applied by the various offices were mostly
incompatible with one another, which made the creation of a consolidated processing and documentation
system nearly impossible.

The UPT development program was launched by MoHA in 1996 (Minister's Instruction No. 20/1996) and
supported by several Provincial Governments. Following this instruction, most local governments
established UPT offices. However, many of these were not established and operated with the full political
commitment of local governments and rather became additional offices without achieving much in terms of
improved services to the public.

Malang Municipality lent considerable political support to the initiative and proposed its inclusion in the
MIP. The Bank agreed but insisted that bolder innovative steps be taken, focusing on four major changes to
the existing system: abolition, combination, simplification, and decentralization / delegation (the ACSD
principle). The focus of the restructuring of the permit issuing system should be, to improve the services to
the public, i.e. to the individual citizen as well as the business community.

   Abolition of unnecessary permits and licenses should be done after a thorough checking of the need for
    a permit or license, under the aspects of regulating an industry or protecting the interests of the public.
    This is more important than the fact that a permit or license might cost the applicant money and might
    thus fill the coffers of local government. Permits should be abolished if they were effectively nothing
    but hidden taxes.

   The combination of different but related permits into one would benefit especially the business
    community. There were many examples where a business needed various licenses whereby one license
    without the other was effectively useless. As a consequence, it would be more advantageous to combine
    these permits into one. This would save time and money for the applicant, provide him with clarity, and
    protect him from the risk of incomplete permits at substantial cost. It would also result in a cost saving
    / efficiency gain on the government's side.

   A simplification (and resulting acceleration) of the permit issuing can be achieved through a
    minimization of the number of government agencies to be involved in the process, through a
    minimization of the supporting documents which the applicant needs to provide, or through other
    adjustments.

   A decentralisation of the issuing of permits, licenses and other documents should be considered as the
    capacities of lower levels of government increase. This would bring the document issuing services



                                                       - 69 -

     closer to the consumers at the grassroots, resulting in savings in travel time, cost, and processing time.

The UPT Program aims at creating one single office for the issuing of many kinds of documents, permits,
and licenses. It should be a new, separate administrative unit, taking over this function from a number of
other agencies that handled this task before. This restructuring would reduce the role of those agencies, and
it would also reduce the potential for corruption there, and so it was anticipated that, in view of these vested
interests, there could be considerable resistance to this restructuring, and that an emphatic political will was
required to make this program work.

Support to the UPT program was one component of the MIP. The support was to cover the procurement of
computer equipment, of appropriate software, and of the required training for the officials to be charged
with running the UPT units. The software was designed at central level, and at local level there were to be
only minor modifications and adjustments to specific local conditions.

Implementation

Through his Decree No. 7/1998, the Mayor of Malang City (the second largest city in East Java) decided to
create a UPMT office (a UPT office in all but a slightly modified name). Based on the national
decentralization legislation of 1999, the municipal council issued Regional Regulation No. 9/2000 for the
setting-up of a more powerful local government agency ("Dinas Perijinan"- Permit Issuing Agency) which
was followed up by Mayor's Decree No. 19/2001.

The previous UPMT was more something of a working group, directed by a coordinator with only very
limited authority. Basically it was more a geographical concentration of the various document issuing
services, but administratively the processing was still under the authority of the various line agencies.
Fourteen work groups were in charge of processing 32 different kinds of documents.

The newly crated Dinas Perijinan has a much more powerful status than the previous UPMT. Dinas
Perijinan has its own fund allocation in the municipal budget, it has much more authority than the previous
UPMT, and it can offer its staff a clearer career path. Further Mayor's Decrees governing the work of
Dinas Perijinan were issued in 2001 and 2002.

Dinas Perijinan now processes 14 different kinds of documents, mostly licenses and other documents for
the regulation of private sector activities. Six kinds of documents are issued based on team deliberations,
and another 8 kinds are issued after recommendation of the responsible line agency. For the team
deliberations, an internal working team has been formed whose members come the various line agencies
relevant for a permit issue. For certain permits / licenses, field checks are carried out as required.

Some progress has been made in the implementation of the ACSD policy. In particular, several types of
business licenses have been combined into one, which is to facilitate the operations of the private sector,
especially the establishment of new businesses. A kind of decentralization was implemented through the
delegation of authority for some licensing procedures from the Mayor to the head of Dinas Perijinan.

Dinas Perijinan is now staffed with 60 personnel who have been recruited from the line agencies, retaining
the qualified human resources that previously work in those agencies and in the UPMT office. In the
context of the MIP, Dinas Perijinan has been equipped with a number of computers that are
inter-connected through a LAN. The software was specifically developed for the needs of Dinas Perijinan.




                                                      - 70 -

Outcome

Dinas Perijinan has successfully assumed a leading role in the permit issuing process. Consumers have
confirmed in interviews that the permit issuing process has now become smoother and more transparent.

A remaining problem is the division of work between the Dinas Perijinan and the line agencies that possess
the technical competence to conduct field assessment and field supervision. This concerns especially the
field of building permits where the problem is the absence of a clear masterplan for the city, or of any other
document that could guide the Dinas Perijinan in its decision whether or not to grant a building permit.
Here, and in some other fields, the innovation of creating a one-stop permit and license issuing office still
requires further fine-tuning.


Transparent Handling of Building Permit Applications on the Basis of Computerized Data in
Denpasar

Background

Denpasar, the capital of Bali Province, has in the last three decades been one of the fastest growing cities of
Indonesia. This creates above-average challenges in the management of land use management and building
control. In 1998, local government of Denpasar initiated a thorough updating of its landuse data. This
updating covered 15 of the subdistricts ("desa" and "kelurahan") in the city. In the following year, another
28 subdistricts were subjected to the same updating process. The updating was combined with a conversion
from conventional data storage (on paper) to computer based data storage. With the completion of this
process, Denpasar Municipality now possessed a digital database on existing landuse and existing
buildings. However, local government had a more far-reaching vision, namely to use this database as one
element in a more transparent system for the issuing and monitoring of building permits.

In 2001, local government of Denpasar applied to the MIP for support to its efforts to continue developing
its digital database. This was to include the provision of computer hardware, software, and building / fitting
works. Local government envisaged that the database should be accessible not only in the municipal head
office but also from selected district ("kecamatan") and subdistrict level offices. The data was to be made
available to government agencies, universities, NGOs, the private sector, and the general public.

This obviously implied, apart from the technical facilities, the need for political support, appropriate human
resources, an adequate organization, a real demand for such information from the side of the envisaged
consumers, and established rules for the access to this information.

Implementation

The project established a Geographical Information System (GIS) with appropriate standard software
(Mapinfo). The system is to show existing landuse, information on land ownership, the road and street
network, and existing buildings, complete with information whether these buildings have been erected with
a legal permit or not.

Also, a seminar and a workshop were conducted, and training was provided to the government staff who
were to handle the system. Some socialization efforts were made through the distribution of posters and
brochures. The seminar targeted the government officials related to the envisaged system in one way or
another. The workshop participants were from the bureaucracy and from the public and served as vehicle
both for training and for socialization.

Access to the digital database on landuse and buildings is now provided through 1 main computer (server)



                                                     - 71 -

in the office of the municipal office for Spatial Planning and Building ("Tata Kota dan Bangunan"), and
through seven terminal computers in selected offices at district level (3) and at subdistrict level (4). The
terminals have been fitted with copies of relevant spatial and non-spatial data.

Local government is aware of various weaknesses during the implementation process: the whole approach
was innovative and contained many work elements that were new and unfamiliar to the concerned
government staff; the techniques to be applied under this approach were rather complex and demanding;
these two factors sometimes overtaxed the capabilities of the concerned staff. Also, there was no
technically competent back-stopping service available within the province, and there were only limited
funds for traveling to Jakarta in order to obtain technical guidance from there. There were, and partly still
are, physical limitations (such as only one phone line) in the government offices that are to handle the
system; and there are limits to the quantity, the qualification, and the motivation of the human resources
that can be made available for the handling of this system.

Envisaged Further Development

Local government is now in the process of combining the existing GIS with satellite images, in an effort to
facilitate the updating of the already incorporated information, and to enhance the intelligibility and
plausibility of the information.

Local government is aware that the sustainability and further development of the system will require
emphatic efforts. It is planned to establish a separate, dedicated Technical Service Unit within the local
government, supported by a separate, dedicated Electronic Data Processing (EDP) Unit. The establishment
of such an EDP Unit would have to incorporate all aspects of data validity, data integrity (linking with all
relevant institutions), and data security. It is planned to connect the various computers of the system to a
Local Area Network (LAN), to establish an internet website, and to provide an email address for questions
and feedback from the public. Local government is aware that this will require the provision of a specific
budget and of specific staff, and is determined to make available the resources necessary for the sustained
operation of the system, including regular updating, upgrading, and expansion.

To increase awareness and interest among the public, local government plans to continue and intensify its
efforts towards socialization and propagation of the system and of the services it offers.

Conclusions

Local government of Denpasar has made an emphatic and comprehensive effort towards a very significant
improvement in the delivery of urban services and related information. Input allocation and activities were
essentially correct, and the output of the project can be assessed positively. Even so, the response from the
public and the factual utilization of the system have so far remained below original expectations.

This, however, should not be seen as a failure because local government is essentially moving in the right
direction. Rather, the expected benefits have been somewhat delayed, but there is good reason for optimism
and for the hope that, with continued efforts, the awareness of the public, its response, and the utilization of
the services offered will increase substantially in the near future. The project can be described as partially
successful, compared to the original plans.

It appears that the main flaw of the project were overly optimistic expectations which the project could not
meet in the short term, and an underestimation of the difficulties and constraints. However, local
government has identified the bottlenecks and is addressing them, and there is a good chance that, over
time, the project's ambitious objective can be achieved and sustained.




                                                       - 72 -

Participatory Budgeting in Kota Bandar Lampung

Background

The legislation that forms the backbone of Indonesia's decentralization, namely Acts. No. 22/1999 and
25/2999, demand that local governments fund the tasks allocated to them in a self-reliant manner. This is
not easy to achieve, given the fact that local government had, in the previous decades, become very much
dependent on funding from central government, for their development budget and even more so for their
routine budget. The reallocation of tax revenue sources to local governments has alleviated this tasks to a
certain degree. Still, local governments continue to need financial assistance from their respective
provincial government, from central government, or from external donors. In order to borrow, local
governments have to demonstrate sufficient repaying capacities, and they have to be able to handle the
loan/s prudently.

On the other hand, many decision for budget allocations seem to be made on the basis of political
considerations, or of considerations of sectoral line agencies, or of perceptions of necessity as they are felt
by local governments. These may, however, not be the needs and priorities as they are felt by the citizens
themselves. There is considerable room for the improvement of local government performance, as measured
in efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and accountability.

Participatory Budgeting

In this situation, local government of Kota Bandar Lampung (the capital of Lampung Province in Sumatra)
is striving for more awareness of the annual budgeting process among the public, and for more direct
involvement of the public in the compilation of the annual local government budget (the "APBD"). The
governing principles and main objectives of this process were: (a) orientation to the felt needs of the public,
(b) maximum cost effectiveness of all expenditures, (c) maximum transparency and accountability in the
administration of the budget, (d) performance based budget allocations, and (e) a flexible and goal oriented
management of the budget.




                                                     - 73 -

The essential stages of the preparation of the APBD in Kota Bandar Lampung are shown in the following
diagram:

                              Preparation of First Draft ABPD by local government


                     Dissemination of First Draft ABPD from local government to the public


                          Preparation of Sub-District ("Kelurahan") Development Plan,
                               involving various components of local communities

                                                                                                                                                                 NGOs
                               Consolidation of Development Plan at District Level,
                      integration and synchronization of all Subdistrict Development Plans             associations,                                                 and


                                                                                                                    sector,
                            Preparation of Programs for Sectoral Agencies ("Dinas"),
               on the basis of Subdistrict Development Plans, strategic plans of sectoral agencies,                                                                     universities,
                                            research and study results                                                     private
                                                                                                                                  the

                                                                                                                                                                                     parliament,
                          Municipal Development Coordination Meeting ("Rakorbang"),                                                  public,
                    conducted by the Municipal Planning Board, BAPPEDA, in consultation                                                     the                                                 local
                      with representatives of Districts, Subdistricts, and sectoral agencies                                                   of


                                        Compilation of Final Draft APBD
                                                                                                                                                                                                     government,

                                      Discussion and Approval of APBD                                                                            Representatives                                                local


                                            Implementation of APBD
              b


This model of budget preparation is now regulated by Regional Regulation No. 13/2002 (title: "Public
Participation in the Preparation of Kota Bandar Lampung"). On the basis of this procedure, about 70% of
the proposals from Sub-District and District level are reflected in the municipal budget. It is hoped that this
would lead to a more focused and effective execution of development efforts. Even sectoral agencies that
were originally skeptical about this procedure are now optimistic in this regard.

This model can be seen as an adaptation and modernization of central government regulations that were
issued in the early 1980s. Only two municipalities (Bandar Lampung and Kupang in East Nusatenggara
Province) have so far embarked on this innovation which is of political. legal, and organizational nature.
Although the full application of the system has not yet been achieved, its introduction can be seen as an
important partial success with considerable potential to become more successful in the future.

Open Space Development in Tanjung Pinang




                                                                 - 74 -

Background

Tanjung Pinang is a relatively small town in Riau Province, located on the islands off the east coast of
Sumatra. The town attracts a significant number of tourists from Malaysia and Singapore who visit the
historic remains in the surrounding area. The town itself is not particularly appealing, specifically it lacks
public green space and other tourist attractions. In fact, there are insufficient public recreation areas even
for the local citizens. Before the implementation of the MIP, there was only one open field, located in
subdistrict ("Kelurahan") Dompak, but it was kind of untidy and poorly managed, more a patch of
shrubbery than a public park, without trees or other plants arranged in any systematic manner, and rather
muddy during the rainy season.

Original Plans of Local Government

Local government noted that the town lacks public green space, public recreation areas, or a public park
with trees. To enhance the appearance of the town in general, to provide the local population with public
recreation space that would improve the quality of life, to improve the local microclimate, and to develop
the town's touristic potential further, local government intended to improve the existing field and turn it into
a well-designed and well-managed public green space. In the plans of local government, this public green
space should also contain a small botanical garden (called "living laboratory" in the original plans of local
government). Furthermore, this public area should provide trading space for informal traders who now
erect their trading stalls haphazardly on the sidewalks of the streets all over the town. These plans of local
government were submitted to the MIP, they were assessed as being fairly logical and convincing, and they
were thus accepted and incorporated in the overall project plans.

Dialogue with Local Stakeholders

Prior to physical implementation of the envisaged project, local government of Tanjung Pinang initiated a
process of intensive consultations with numerous local stakeholders, such as local parliament and
representatives of civil society, NGOs, universities, and the private sector. The outcome of these
consultations was somewhat surprising: it showed that the aspirations of most local stakeholders differed
markedly from the plans of local government. A public recreation area in the form of a green space was not
considered important. Likewise, city greening and the creation of a botanical garden were not considered
important. The idea of using the field as trading space for informal traders was widely rejected.

Instead, the majority of the stakeholders expressed their aspiration to have a large, surfaced open field for
mass prayers during Islamic holidays, especially on the Idul Fitri holiday. This surfaced open space should
also be used for certain suitable sports activities.

This result of the consultations certainly threw the plans of local government into disarray. Not only did it
replace the originally conceived priority functions with others, it also had implications for the management
and maintenance of the field: local government had intended to levy retributions on the informal traders
using the field and to use this revenue to pay for the maintenance of the field. With the rejection of the idea
to use the field for informal trading, local government would have to find other sources of funds for the
field's maintenance.

Implementation and Outcome

In the framework of the MIP, local government of Tanjung Pinang then developed the existing field in
subdistrict Dompak as an open space largely surfaced with concrete and paving blocks. This certainly
renders the field suitable for mass prayers and for certain types of sports (basketball, volleyball, jogging,
badminton, aerobics, etc.). The field is fitted with a permanent stage for the leader of the prayers.


                                                     - 75 -

On the other hand, this bare field, being virtually void of major plants, is shadeless and hot, and it has
certainly not improved the local microclimate. Neither does it enhance the aesthetic appeal of the town or
contribute to the town's attractiveness to foreign tourists. There is a cluster of plants that covers an area of
approx. 60 sq.m., but this can not be considered a botanical garden in any sense of the word.
This open space is now used for mass prayers, albeit only rarely (Idul Fitri is celebrated once every 355
days). It is also used for sports activities, as far as it is suitable for them. Trading is not permitted on the
field.


Conclusions and Evaluation

As a matter of fact, the original plans of local government have not been implemented, and on these
grounds the project could be considered as having largely been a failure. This, however, might be too
superficial an evaluation. The important innovation in Tanjung Pinang was not the provision of a technical
installation to the design specifications of local government technocrats. Instead, the important innovation
was the intensive consultation with the local stakeholders, which revealed that their aspirations were
significantly different from the priorities of local government, and the adjustment of the plans of local
government to these aspirations.

It is the taxpayer's right to decide, through a suitable mechanism, how tax revenue should be spent, in
accordance with the taxpayer's priorities and felt needs. It is a basic feature of a democratic state that the
voice of the electorate takes precedence over the opinion of technocrats. Insofar, the handling of this case
by local government of Tanjung Pinang, has demonstrated important innovations and improvements in local
governance.

In a technical evaluation, the project may be seen as having yielded a rather disappointing result. In a
political evaluation, however, the project can be seen as having been fairly successful and beneficial. This
success and benefit are likely to make this innovation sustainable and replicable in two ways: firstly, the
continued maintenance of the field is now quite likely, because its construction reflected the aspirations and
felt needs of the taxpayer. Secondly, the consultative approach used in this instance may well turn out to be
very sustainable and replicable because it has obviously persuaded local government to be prepared to
adjust its priorities and plans to the felt needs and expressed aspirations of the taxpayer.


Handling of Municipal Solid Waste in Majalengka

Background

Majalengka is a small town in the lowlands of West Java Province. Like all other towns and cities, it faces
a rapidly increasing generation of general municipal solid waste, to a degree that begins to overstretch its
handling capacities. Collection and transport facilities are increasingly insufficient, and the available site
for the disposal of such waste is becoming too small. Also, local government faces a shortage of qualified
human resources for the handling of this problem.

Therefore, local government developed a plan which was submitted as a proposal to the MIP. The plan
envisaged that the handling of general municipal solid waste should be delegated to subdistrict ("kelurahan
") level, and that local cooperatives should play a main role in this context. The general municipal solid
waste should be separated into compostable waste, recyclable plastic waste, and the rest that was to be
deposited in the municipal dump site. Local government would take care of the transport from the
temporary to the final waste dump site, and of the depositing of the waste there.

The cooperatives should collect the waste from the individual households, transport it to a temporary dump
site, and separate it there into the three components mentioned above. The cooperatives should also handle


                                                         - 76 -

the production and marketing of compost, and the production and marketing of plastic granulate from
recycled plastic waste. The operational profits of the cooperatives, together with regular user charges,
should pay for (a) the cost of collection and transport, (b) part of the transport cost from the temporary to
the final waste dump site, and (c) the building-up of the cooperatives' capital so that these cooperatives
could also function as savings-and-credit associations.

Implementation and Outcome

The project facilitated the formation of new cooperatives in 6 subdistricts. The cooperatives had up to 40
members, which is still far less than the average number of households in a subdistrict. The leading
members of the cooperatives were usually government servants because they were reportedly seen by the
public as being more capable to run a cooperative successfully.

Each cooperative member was obliged to pay Rp. 5,000 (about US$0.60) as a one-off saving, and another
Rp. 1,000 (about US$0.12) as compulsory monthly saving, to qualify for a credit.

The project provided Rp. 2.5 million (IBRD funds) for site preparation in the 6 temporary dumping /
composting / recycling sites, whereas the local government allocated a same amount of funds as an initial
capital for each cooperative. The project also provided mechanical equipment for composting worth Rp. 23
million (about US$2,800) in each of 4 subdistricts, and equipment for the production of plastic granulate
form plastic waste worth Rp. 27 million (about US$3,200) for each of the other 2 subdistricts.

The municipality made available 5 staff in each subdistrict, and each subdistrict made available an average
of 1,000 sq.m. of land for the temporary dumping / composting / recycling site. Local parliament stated its
support for the project.

Some of the cooperative members were given training in waste handling and recycling by the relevant local
government agency.

The newly formed cooperatives embarked almost immediately on the granting of credit to their members
and exhausted their working capital in this way, which rendered them unable to conduct the envisaged
activities of collecting, transporting, separating, and composting / recycling the municipal solid waste, as
had been envisaged. Most of the credits granted turned sour, and the payback amounts are far from
sufficient to allow the cooperatives to run the activities for which they had been formed in the first place.

As a consequence, no composting or plastic recycling is taking place, and the equipment purchased for
these purposes is lying idle.

Technically, organizationally, and financially the project has thus been a total failure. The granting of
credit to cooperative members may have included a strong element of deliberate mismanagement and
favoritism, but exact information is not available.

Conclusions and Lessons

Like so many times before in Indonesia, the formation of cooperatives has failed to yield the desired results.
The main reason is that the cooperatives have not grown from the grassroots, have not been established
through a self-reliant process, and are not seen as representing the interests of the people but rather as
parachuted into the local context by the government. As a result, the managers of these cooperatives do not
have a strong feeling of accountability to their members, and they tend to feel that accountability to the
government, as the guardian of the interests of the public, was theoretical only.

It was a grave mistake to allow the newly formed cooperatives to be active in the micro-finance sector,
because (a) the clearly lacked the mandate and the trust from the grassroots and (b) they clearly lacked any
qualification and track record in this field.




                                                      - 77 -

The planned multiple functions of the cooperatives (collection and transport of the waste, sustained
production and marketing of compost and of plastic granulate, and all related business administration)
would have been very challenging even for much stronger and more experienced organizations, let alone for
newly established cooperatives with little qualification, no experience, and doubtful dedication.

Aggravating this challenge with the extra task of handling micro-finance was a fatal error whose
consequences could have been foreseeable. The error was compounded by the fact that the cooperatives
were allowed to shift resources between their two unrelated fields of activity, depleting the working capital
meant for the handling of solid waste.

Lessons for the appraisal of future similar project proposals should be:
  the artificial formation of cooperatives is highly unlikely to be successful and sustainable;
  newly established cooperatives are highly unlikely to possess the qualification, and possibly even the
   dedication, for complex tasks like the production and marketing of compost and of plastic granulate;
  profit oriented tasks like production and marketing of compost and of plastic granulate are much better
   suited to be taken care of by the private sector;
  the field of micro-finance requires considerable experience, dedication, management integrity, and
   grassroots support, and these qualifications are most unlikely to be available in a cooperative that has
   been artificially spawned through a government initiative;
  activities in the micro-finance sector require thought-out and clear guidelines as well as a functioning
   regulation and tight supervision mechanism; none of these existed in the project;
  the allocation of two very challenging but essentially unrelated tasks to newly formed cooperatives is
   extremely risky.




                                                     - 78 -

Additional Annex 18. Case Studies

In this annex, several case studies are presented. Some of these describe how MIP subprojects have been successful
in terms of technical outcome, organizational arrangements, and likely sustainability. Such positive examples are
the revitalization of the public library in Wonosobo (Central Java), the production of biogas from cattle manure in
Kabupaten Semarang (Central Java), and the establishment of a one-stop permit issuing office in Kota Malang
(East Java). These subprojects can be considered fully successful.
Other subprojects may not have been technically fully successful by the end of the MIP, but the initiated
innovations point in the right direction and appear sustainable, with the implication that the technical success can
reasonably be expected some time in the near future. Examples for this are the establishment of a computer-based
information system for landuse and building permits in Denpasar (Bali) and the introduction of a more
participatory approach for the preparation of the annual local government budget in Kota Bandar Lampung
(Lampung, Sumatra). The case study from Tanjung Pinang (Riau, Sumatra) describes a subproject that failed to
deliver the planned physical output but still constitutes an important political innovation. These subprojects can be
considered partially successful.
On the other hand, the case study from Majalengka (West Java) describes a totally failed attempt to improve the
management of municipal solid waste through the introduction of composting and recycling. This subproject was
clearly unsuccessful in every aspect, but its failure can still provide some valuable lessons.




                                                          - 79 -

                        Revitalization of the Public Library in Wonosobo


Wonosobo is a medium sized town in the mountains of Central Java, fairly far away from any major city, not
located on one of the trunk routes, and not in any way special or exceptional. Since 1990, it had a small public
library that had originally been established by a charity foundation (Yayasan III-17 Jakarta) in a building of 400
m2 floor area. This library existed for a number of years, but never really developed to any significant degree. Its
stock of books remained stagnant at about 2,500, the number of registered members remained stagnant at a few
hundred only, and the number of books borrowed remained more or less stagnant as well. The stagnation of the
Wonosobo public library seemed to be a typical chicken-and-egg story: funding for the library was minimal
because the library was not seen as very beneficial or "wanted" by the public, and the public indeed did not utilize
the library much, which was generally attributed to its being so small and unattractive. Local government budget
for the library operation was a mere Rp. 500,000 in 1991, then rose to Rp. 1,500,000 in 1995 but dropped back to
Rp. 750,000 in 1996. Only 5 staff were employed specifically for the library.

Things might have remained like this for many more years, if not somebody had the hunch that the poor utilization
of the library was perhaps not so much a result of its small size, but a result of its very limited opening hours: the
library, being staffed by local government servants, had the same opening hours as the other local government
offices - from 08:00 to 14:00 every working day.

So, in 1998, local government took the first step towards revitalizing the library: it extended the opening hours
until 17:00 every working day. This seemingly small change triggered a whole series of developments, at whose
end we now see a well functioning and very popular public library. With the extended opening hours, the library
became much more accessible for school students and working adults who had previously been virtually excluded.
The increased accessibility manifested itself very quickly in increased utilization. The rapid and significant
increase in visitors to the library made local government aware of the latent potential of this institution, and of the
need to develop this potential.

Local government realized that a public library can be a very effective lever to enhance the quality of the human
resources of the region, as it can provide educational materials to the public at large. A public library is an
institution that is, in principle, widely known (every elementary school possesses a library, even if it is of poor
standard). Also, the management of public libraries is usually not very much affected by practices of collusion,
corruption, and nepotism. Local government thus decided to revitalize the library, and in fact all libraries in its
area, and to establish a network of libraries, in an effort to enhance human resources. Systematic promotion of the
library was conducted, and its staff, notably three former elementary school teachers, worked hard for its better
utilization.

An immediate effect of the library's suddenly surging popularity was, that its physical facilities and its service
capacities turned out to be insufficient to cope with the increase. With the launching of the MIP in 1999, local
government proposed and succeeded to include the revitalization of the Wonosobo public library as a subproject in
the MIP. From then onward, the library developed rapidly, as is shown by the following key indicators :

Table : Key Indicators of the Development of Wonosobo Public Library 1999 - 2003

Item                                                     1999         2000            2001          2002        2003

Registered members                                         561         723           1,633          4,074        n.a.
Visitors                                                35,695      67,280        154,255        402,905         n.a.
Borrowers                                                5,597       6,107          12,463        80,873         n.a.
Books borrowed                                          11,246      12,426          25,418       130,818         n.a.
Staff                                                        10         10              20             20         38
Funds from routine budget (Rp. million)                     4.0        10.0            30.0          62.5        99.1
Funds from development budget (Rp. million)                 5.0        25.0          105.0          180.0       402.4

Total funds (Rp. million)                                  9.0         35.0          135.0          242.5       501.5


In 2000, the opening hours of the library were extended till 21:00 every working day, and since 2001 the library is




                                                          - 80 -

open even on Sundays and on most public holidays. The stock of books has increased to about 25,000 (15,000
different titles), which represents a ten-fold increase since the mid-1990s, and a separate section offering CDs has
been established. The floor space of the library building was expanded by 225 m2, to more than 150% of its
previous size. More furniture was provided, and an internet facility, a photocopying facility and a canteen were
added. Books are now fitted with bar codes, and a computerized borrowing system with scanners has been
introduced. To attract more people to the library and to encourage people's interest in reading, special reader
groups and English club were established. There are plans to expand the building to a triple-story structure in
2004, and to develop libraries at sub-district (kecamatan) level.

In its institutional status, the library has now been upgraded to a "kantor" (office) in its own right whilst in 1990 it
had only been a "UPTD" (technical sub-unit of a line agency, in this case the Education and Culture Agency), and
it had been upgraded to a "kantor" and downgraded again to a "UPTD" in between. A "kantor" has much more
authority to design and implement its own policies and plans. Also, a dedicated budget can clearly be allocated to a
"kantor", and the budgeted funds can not easily be diverted away from their intended use, as is the case where an
implementing agency is merely a technical sub-unit of another, bigger line agency.

The library has played a pioneering role, and its successful development was followed by a training course for
library managers in the regency. This training was extended to 80 librarians from schools, village administrations,
and other local level agencies. Further non-formal support activities followed. The library was visited by
government's librarians of Selayar (Sulawesi) under a comparative study activity. Private parties have expressed an
interest in opening libraries. Local government urges its employees to donate books, and the public is beginning to
donate books, too. Networking with several publishers has been developed, to maintain up-dated/recent book
collections. The library now attempts to create spill-over effects by encouraging to public to write, in order to
develop the local human resources further.

The revitalization of the Wonosobo public library has been one of the MIP's prominent success stories. It was
triggered by the belief that is stagnating existence was not an inevitable situation, and that there was a potential to
improve it and make it play a crucial role in the development of human resources. Continued political support,
manifested in adequate funding, now seems a very realistic prospect, and the sustainability of this initiative is very
likely. Also, this initiative was neither prohibitively costly nor excessively complex, and it is a model that can be
replicated elsewhere with very reasonable resource input.




                                                          - 81 -

  Producing Biogas From Livestock Manure As Energy Alternative For Domestic Users And Home
                                         Industry in Kabupaten Semarang


Background and Objective

The dairy cattle industry is a significant component of the agricultural sector in the regency ("Kabupaten")
Semarang, Central Java. The districts (Kecamatan) Ungaran, Getasan and Tengaran are three out of number of
districts in the regency that are well known as centers of dairy cattle rearing. In these districts there are more than
24,000 dairy cattle, and they produce approx. 480 tons of manure every day. The cattle are typically kept in small
sheds adjacent to the owners' house in a high density settlement, and there used to be no place where the manure
could be disposed of. This caused environmentally hazardous conditions that endangered the health of the cattle
themselves, and caused odor nuisance to the villagers. Only some of this manure is utilized as organic fertilizer for
snakeskin fruit plantations owned by local farmers.

Local Government of Kabupaten Semarang proposed to reduce the volume of unutilized manure by processing it
into biogas. The original main objective was, to improve environmental conditions. Later it was considered that
biogas could be an alternative energy source for domestic purposes and small scale industries.

In the three kecamatans, there are also numerous home industries and small-scale industries, amongst others milk
pasteurization, traditional production of brown palm sugar, and other food industries, which are not only consumed
locally but exported to other region as well. Previously, these industries, just like the households in the area used
kerosene, firewood or Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) as their source of energy. For lighting, some households that do
not yet have electricity used kerosene lamps. Firewood was obtained from local traders or from the forests adjacent
to the settlement area. Fuel is a major item of household expenditure, and of small scale industries' business
operation costs, and the uncontrolled extraction of firewood from the surrounding forests is environmentally
problematic.

Implementation

Originally, the villagers responded to the idea of converting manure to biogas with skepticism and reluctance. The
project then arranged for a study trip to Boyolali (elsewhere in Central Java) where biogas production has taken
place for some time. The discussions with the farmers there convinced the villagers of the project area of the
benefits of biogas production. The cattle owners enthusiasm fully evolved after the successful construction of the
first pilot unit in the area.

Through partnership with a reputable national NGO, the government developed biogas production on a small
scale. As a first step, 60 dairy cattle owners, each owning 3 to 12 cows, a shed and a minimum of 40 square meters
of land, were selected. They formed groups of 10 cattle owners each, and each household now possesses a biogas
production unit. A unit costs about Rp. 6-7.5 million (US$700-850), depending on size. Under the project, 63 units
were constructed (against an original target of 60 units). For the construction, specialized craftsmen recommended
by the NGO were used, after an open advertising campaign had revealed that, for this specialized kind of work,
there were no sufficiently qualified and experienced craftsmen in the project area.

More units shall be constructed by other cattle owners, with a revolving financing, whereby each cattle owner
would be provided labor from the community groups who had received the biogas installation (considered as group
that received loan), and provide the materials for the construction (about 60% of the total cost) from his own
resources. The loan installments would be used to finance more units, and so on. Local government also plans to
construct more units from its own budget.




                                                         - 82 -

Benefits

The project achieved its primary objective of improving environmental conditions and veterinary health for the
cattle of the participating owners. It also achieved several secondary / additional benefits, which are shown in the
following table, based a number of interviews with the beneficiaries in the three kecamatans:


Item                            Benefits

1. Environment                  Cleaner and healthier environment (the cattle manure used to cause a very disturbing odor,
                                particular during the dry season).
                                Healthier cattle, and reduced cost for veterinary care.
                                Reduced deforestation, since biogas replaces firewood as fuel source.

2. Savings in fuel supply costs Chicken boiling industry : cost savings of Rp. 75,000 to Rp. 100,000 per month for
                                purchasing firewood, or 2-3 LPG bottles per month

                                Milk pasteurization industry : cost savings of 80 liters kerosene per month

                                Domestic purposes : cost savings of about Rp. 75,000 per month for purchasing firewood or
                                kerosene

3. Quality of home industry     Biogas gives a more stable heat than firewood, which improves the quality of home industry
   products                     products like pasteurized milk, brown palm sugar, and boiled chicken

4. Household lighting           Some of households use biogas energy for their pressure lanterns, which provides brighter
                                light than kerosene

5. Productivity of local        The residue from biogas production can be utilized to fertilize snakeskin fruit and banana
   plantations                 plantations. This fertilizer has better qualities than chemical Urea fertilizer or ordinary
                               organic fertilizer. Using fertilizer from biogas production residues, the plantations produce
                               more bananas and sweeter snakeskin fruit. At the same time, there is a cost saving.


Local government disseminated the biogas program to the cattle owners in the three kecamatans. Learning from
the success of the participating cattle owners, a chicken rearer owning more than 1,000 chickens developed, on his
own initiative, a larger biogas construction unit, using chicken manure as main input, and succeeded.
The utilization of biogas for cooking etc. requires special burners that are different from kerosene or LPG burners.
The NGO was instrumental in providing these burners to the interested households.

Fuel cost savings may very well become an increasingly important factor in the decision-making of the cattle
owners, because the Indonesian government plans to gradually reduce the subsidies on other fuels (kerosene, LPG).
Subsidies on chemical fertilizer are to be reduced as well.
Biogas production is so far not feasible with small units. At least 3 heads of cattle are required to make one
installation feasible. Therefore, it will be a challenge of the future to provide small cattle owners with access to this
beneficial technology.




                                                            - 83 -

                             The One-Roof Permit Issuing System in Malang City

Background and General Aspects

The program to create one-roof permit issuing systems, also known as UPT (short for Unit Pelayanan Terpadu), in
local governments is to create one single office, complete with the necessary equipment, which would issue several
kinds of documents, mainly permits and licenses frequently required by the public or by the business sector. The
idea is, to provide the public with a better and more transparent service, based on clear information regarding the
administrative requirements, the time needed, and the cost involved for the issuing of each type of document. Also,
the program should increase the transparency of operations and the accountability of individual local government
offices.

Previously, all kinds of documents, permits, and licenses were issued by a multitude of local government agencies.
The geographical scattering of the issuing services often meant excessive traveling for the applicant. The
administrative scattering made it difficult to monitor the kind and number of documents issued by local
government in total, and to reconcile this number with the total amount of fees to be collected. Accidental or
deliberate mismatches between the two were very common, and the potential for corruption was very substantial.
The documentation techniques applied by the various offices were mostly incompatible with one another, which
made the creation of a consolidated processing and documentation system nearly impossible.

The UPT development program was launched by MoHA in 1996 (Minister's Instruction No. 20/1996) and
supported by several Provincial Governments. Following this instruction, most local governments established UPT
offices. However, many of these were not established and operated with the full political commitment of local
governments and rather became additional offices without achieving much in terms of improved services to the
public.

Malang Municipality lent considerable political support to the initiative and proposed its inclusion in the MIP. The
Bank agreed but insisted that bolder innovative steps be taken, focusing on four major changes to the existing
system: abolition, combination, simplification, and decentralization / delegation (the ACSD principle). The focus
of the restructuring of the permit issuing system should be, to improve the services to the public, i.e. to the
individual citizen as well as the business community.

    Abolition of unnecessary permits and licenses should be done after a thorough checking of the need for a
     permit or license, under the aspects of regulating an industry or protecting the interests of the public. This is
     more important than the fact that a permit or license might cost the applicant money and might thus fill the
     coffers of local government. Permits should be abolished if they were effectively nothing but hidden taxes.

    The combination of different but related permits into one would benefit especially the business community.
     There were many examples where a business needed various licenses whereby one license without the other
     was effectively useless. As a consequence, it would be more advantageous to combine these permits into one.
     This would save time and money for the applicant, provide him with clarity, and protect him from the risk of
     incomplete permits at substantial cost. It would also result in a cost saving / efficiency gain on the
     government's side.

    A simplification (and resulting acceleration) of the permit issuing can be achieved through a minimization of
     the number of government agencies to be involved in the process, through a minimization of the supporting
     documents which the applicant needs to provide, or through other adjustments.

    A decentralisation of the issuing of permits, licenses and other documents should be considered as the
     capacities of lower levels of government increase. This would bring the document issuing services closer to the
     consumers at the grassroots, resulting in savings in travel time, cost, and processing time.

The UPT Program aims at creating one single office for the issuing of many kinds of documents, permits, and
licenses. It should be a new, separate administrative unit, taking over this function from a number of other agencies
that handled this task before. This restructuring would reduce the role of those agencies, and it would also reduce
the potential for corruption there, and so it was anticipated that, in view of these vested interests, there could be
considerable resistance to this restructuring, and that an emphatic political will was required to make this program
work.



                                                         - 84 -

Support to the UPT program was one component of the MIP. The support was to cover the procurement of
computer equipment, of appropriate software, and of the required training for the officials to be charged with
running the UPT units. The software was designed at central level, and at local level there were to be only minor
modifications and adjustments to specific local conditions.

Implementation

Through his Decree No. 7/1998, the Mayor of Malang City (the second largest city in East Java) decided to create a
UPMT office (a UPT office in all but a slightly modified name). Based on the national decentralization legislation
of 1999, the municipal council issued Regional Regulation No. 9/2000 for the setting-up of a more powerful local
government agency ("Dinas Perijinan"- Permit Issuing Agency) which was followed up by Mayor's Decree No.
19/2001.

The previous UPMT was more something of a working group, directed by a coordinator with only very limited
authority. Basically it was more a geographical concentration of the various document issuing services, but
administratively the processing was still under the authority of the various line agencies. Fourteen work groups
were in charge of processing 32 different kinds of documents.

The newly crated Dinas Perijinan has a much more powerful status than the previous UPMT. Dinas Perijinan has
its own fund allocation in the municipal budget, it has much more authority than the previous UPMT, and it can
offer its staff a clearer career path. Further Mayor's Decrees governing the work of Dinas Perijinan were issued in
2001 and 2002.

Dinas Perijinan now processes 14 different kinds of documents, mostly licenses and other documents for the
regulation of private sector activities. Six kinds of documents are issued based on team deliberations, and another 8
kinds are issued after recommendation of the responsible line agency. For the team deliberations, an internal
working team has been formed whose members come the various line agencies relevant for a permit issue. For
certain permits / licenses, field checks are carried out as required.

Some progress has been made in the implementation of the ACSD policy. In particular, several types of business
licenses have been combined into one, which is to facilitate the operations of the private sector, especially the
establishment of new businesses. A kind of decentralization was implemented through the delegation of authority
for some licensing procedures from the Mayor to the head of Dinas Perijinan.

Dinas Perijinan is now staffed with 60 personnel who have been recruited from the line agencies, retaining the
qualified human resources that previously work in those agencies and in the UPMT office. In the context of the
MIP, Dinas Perijinan has been equipped with a number of computers that are inter-connected through a LAN. The
software was specifically developed for the needs of Dinas Perijinan.

Outcome

Dinas Perijinan has successfully assumed a leading role in the permit issuing process. Consumers have confirmed
in interviews that the permit issuing process has now become smoother and more transparent.

A remaining problem is the division of work between the Dinas Perijinan and the line agencies that possess the
technical competence to conduct field assessment and field supervision. This concerns especially the field of
building permits where the problem is the absence of a clear masterplan for the city, or of any other document that
could guide the Dinas Perijinan in its decision whether or not to grant a building permit. Here, and in some other
fields, the innovation of creating a one-stop permit and license issuing office still requires further fine-tuning.




                                                         - 85 -

     Transparent Handling of Building Permit Applications on the Basis of Computerized Data in
                                                      Denpasar

Background

Denpasar, the capital of Bali Province, has in the last three decades been one of the fastest growing cities of
Indonesia. This creates above-average challenges in the management of land use management and building
control. In 1998, local government of Denpasar initiated a thorough updating of its landuse data. This updating
covered 15 of the subdistricts ("desa" and "kelurahan") in the city. In the following year, another 28 subdistricts
were subjected to the same updating process. The updating was combined with a conversion from conventional
data storage (on paper) to computer based data storage. With the completion of this process, Denpasar
Municipality now possessed a digital database on existing landuse and existing buildings. However, local
government had a more far-reaching vision, namely to use this database as one element in a more transparent
system for the issuing and monitoring of building permits.

In 2001, local government of Denpasar applied to the MIP for support to its efforts to continue developing its
digital database. This was to include the provision of computer hardware, software, and building / fitting works.
Local government envisaged that the database should be accessible not only in the municipal head office but also
from selected district ("kecamatan") and subdistrict level offices. The data was to be made available to government
agencies, universities, NGOs, the private sector, and the general public.

This obviously implied, apart from the technical facilities, the need for political support, appropriate human
resources, an adequate organization, a real demand for such information from the side of the envisaged consumers,
and established rules for the access to this information.

Implementation

The project established a Geographical Information System (GIS) with appropriate standard software (Mapinfo).
The system is to show existing landuse, information on land ownership, the road and street network, and existing
buildings, complete with information whether these buildings have been erected with a legal permit or not.

Also, a seminar and a workshop were conducted, and training was provided to the government staff who were to
handle the system. Some socialization efforts were made through the distribution of posters and brochures. The
seminar targeted the government officials related to the envisaged system in one way or another. The workshop
participants were from the bureaucracy and from the public and served as vehicle both for training and for
socialization.

Access to the digital database on landuse and buildings is now provided through 1 main computer (server) in the
office of the municipal office for Spatial Planning and Building ("Tata Kota dan Bangunan"), and through 7
terminal computers in selected offices at district level (3) and at subdistrict level (4). The terminals have been fitted
with copies of relevant spatial and non-spatial data.

Local government is aware of various weaknesses during the implementation process: the whole approach was
innovative and contained many work elements that were new and unfamiliar to the concerned government staff;
the techniques to be applied under this approach were rather complex and demanding; these two factors sometimes
overtaxed the capabilities of the concerned staff. Also, there was no technically competent back-stopping service
available within the province, and there were only limited funds for traveling to Jakarta in order to obtain technical
guidance from there. There were, and partly still are, physical limitations (such as only one phone line) in the
government offices that are to handle the system; and there are limits to the quantity, the qualification, and the
motivation of the human resources that can be made available for the handling of this system.

Envisaged Further Development

Local government is now in the process of combining the existing GIS with satellite images, in an effort to
facilitate the updating of the already incorporated information, and to enhance the intelligibility and plausibility of
the information.

Local government is aware that the sustainability and further development of the system will require emphatic



                                                         - 86 -

efforts. It is planned to establish a separate, dedicated Technical Service Unit within the local government,
supported by a separate, dedicated Electronic Data Processing (EDP) Unit. The establishment of such an EDP Unit
would have to incorporate all aspects of data validity, data integrity (linking with all relevant institutions), and data
security. It is planned to connect the various computers of the system to a Local Area Network (LAN), to establish
an internet website, and to provide an email address for questions and feedback from the public. Local government
is aware that this will require the provision of a specific budget and of specific staff, and is determined to make
available the resources necessary for the sustained operation of the system, including regular updating, upgrading,
and expansion.

To increase awareness and interest among the public, local government plans to continue and intensify its efforts
towards socialization and propagation of the system and of the services it offers.

Conclusions

Local government of Denpasar has made an emphatic and comprehensive effort towards a very significant
improvement in the delivery of urban services and related information. Input allocation and activities were
essentially correct, and the output of the project can be assessed positively. Even so, the response from the public
and the factual utilization of the system have so far remained below original expectations.

This, however, should not be seen as a failure because local government is essentially moving in the right
direction. Rather, the expected benefits have been somewhat delayed, but there is good reason for optimism and for
the hope that, with continued efforts, the awareness of the public, its response, and the utilization of the services
offered will increase substantially in the near future. The project can be described as partially successful, compared
to the original plans.

It appears that the main flaw of the project were overly optimistic expectations which the project could not meet in
the short term, and an underestimation of the difficulties and constraints. However, local government has identified
the bottlenecks and is addressing them, and there is a good chance that, over time, the project's ambitious objective
can be achieved and sustained.




                                                          - 87 -

                                 Participatory Budgeting in Kota Bandar Lampung

Background

The legislation that forms the backbone of Indonesia's decentralization, namely Acts. No. 22/1999 and 25/2999,
demand that local governments fund the tasks allocated to them in a self-reliant manner. This is not easy to
achieve, given the fact that local government had, in the previous decades, become very much dependent on
funding from central government, for their development budget and even more so for their routine budget. The
reallocation of tax revenue sources to local governments has alleviated this tasks to a certain degree. Still, local
governments continue to need financial assistance from their respective provincial government, from central
government, or from external donors. In order to borrow, local governments have to demonstrate sufficient
repaying capacities, and they have to be able to handle the loan/s prudently.

On the other hand, many decision for budget allocations seem to be made on the basis of political considerations,
or of considerations of sectoral line agencies, or of perceptions of necessity as they are felt by local governments.
These may, however, not be the needs and priorities as they are felt by the citizens themselves. There is
considerable room for the improvement of local government performance, as measured in efficiency, effectiveness,
transparency, and accountability.

Participatory Budgeting

In this situation, local government of Kota Bandar Lampung (the capital of Lampung Province in Sumatra) is
striving for more awareness of the annual budgeting process among the public, and for more direct involvement of
the public in the compilation of the annual local government budget (the "APBD"). The governing principles and
main objectives of this process were: (a) orientation to the felt needs of the public, (b) maximum cost effectiveness
of all expenditures, (c) maximum transparency and accountability in the administration of the budget, (d)
performance based budget allocations, and (e) a flexible and goal oriented management of the budget.

The essential stages of the preparation of the APBD in Kota Bandar Lampung are shown in the following diagram:

                               Preparation of First Draft ABPD by local government


                      Dissemination of First Draft ABPD from local government to the public


                           Preparation of Sub-District ("Kelurahan") Development Plan,
                                involving various components of local communities

                                                                                                                                                                   NGOs
                                Consolidation of Development Plan at District Level,
                       integration and synchronization of all Subdistrict Development Plans              associations,                                                 and


                                                                                                                      sector,
                             Preparation of Programs for Sectoral Agencies ("Dinas"),
                on the basis of Subdistrict Development Plans, strategic plans of sectoral agencies,                                                                      universities,
                                             research and study results                                                      private
                                                                                                                                    the

                                                                                                                                                                                       parliament,
                           Municipal Development Coordination Meeting ("Rakorbang"),                                                   public,
                      conducted by the Municipal Planning Board, BAPPEDA, in consultation                                                     the                                                 local
                        with representatives of Districts, Subdistricts, and sectoral agencies                                                   of


                                         Compilation of Final Draft APBD
                                                                                                                                                                                                       government,

                                       Discussion and Approval of APBD                                                                             Representatives                                                local


                                             Implementation of APBD
                b




                                                                   - 88 -

This model of budget preparation is now regulated by Regional Regulation No. 13/2002 (title: "Public Participation
in the Preparation of Kota Bandar Lampung"). On the basis of this procedure, about 70% of the proposals from
Sub-District and District level are reflected in the municipal budget. It is hoped that this would lead to a more
focused and effective execution of development efforts. Even sectoral agencies that were originally skeptical about
this procedure are now optimistic in this regard.
This model can be seen as an adaptation and modernization of central government regulations that were issued in
the early 1980s. Only two municipalities (Bandar Lampung and Kupang in East Nusatenggara Province) have so
far embarked on this innovation which is of political. legal, and organizational nature. Although the full
application of the system has not yet been achieved, its introduction can be seen as an important partial success
with considerable potential to become more successful in the future.




                                                        - 89 -

                                    Open Space Development in Tanjung Pinang

Background

Tanjung Pinang is a relatively small town in Riau Province, located on the islands off the east coast of Sumatra.
The town attracts a significant number of tourists from Malaysia and Singapore who visit the historic remains in
the surrounding area. The town itself is not particularly appealing, specifically it lacks public green space and
other tourist attractions. In fact, there are insufficient public recreation areas even for the local citizens. Before the
implementation of the MIP, there was only one open field, located in subdistrict ("Kelurahan") Dompak, but it
was kind of untidy and poorly managed, more a patch of shrubbery than a public park, without trees or other plants
arranged in any systematic manner, and rather muddy during the rainy season.

Original Plans of Local Government

Local government noted that the town lacks public green space, public recreation areas, or a public park with trees.
To enhance the appearance of the town in general, to provide the local population with public recreation space that
would improve the quality of life, to improve the local microclimate, and to develop the town's touristic potential
further, local government intended to improve the existing field and turn it into a well-designed and well-managed
public green space. In the plans of local government, this public green space should also contain a small botanical
garden (called "living laboratory" in the original plans of local government). Furthermore, this public area should
provide trading space for informal traders who now erect their trading stalls haphazardly on the sidewalks of the
streets all over the town. These plans of local government were submitted to the MIP, they were assessed as being
fairly logical and convincing, and they were thus accepted and incorporated in the overall project plans.

Dialogue with Local Stakeholders

Prior to physical implementation of the envisaged project, local government of Tanjung Pinang initiated a process
of intensive consultations with numerous local stakeholders, such as local parliament and representatives of civil
society, NGOs, universities, and the private sector. The outcome of these consultations was somewhat surprising: it
showed that the aspirations of most local stakeholders differed markedly from the plans of local government. A
public recreation area in the form of a green space was not considered important. Likewise, city greening and the
creation of a botanical garden were not considered important. The idea of using the field as trading space for
informal traders was widely rejected.

Instead, the majority of the stakeholders expressed their aspiration to have a large, surfaced open field for mass
prayers during Islamic holidays, especially on the Idul Fitri holiday. This surfaced open space should also be used
for certain suitable sports activities.

This result of the consultations certainly threw the plans of local government into disarray. Not only did it replace
the originally conceived priority functions with others, it also had implications for the management and
maintenance of the field: local government had intended to levy retributions on the informal traders using the field
and to use this revenue to pay for the maintenance of the field. With the rejection of the idea to use the field for
informal trading, local government would have to find other sources of funds for the field's maintenance.

Implementation and Outcome

In the framework of the MIP, local government of Tanjung Pinang then developed the existing field in subdistrict
Dompak as an open space largely surfaced with concrete and paving blocks. This certainly renders the field
suitable for mass prayers and for certain types of sports (basketball, volleyball, jogging, badminton, aerobics, etc.).
The field is fitted with a permanent stage for the leader of the prayers.
On the other hand, this bare field, being virtually void of major plants, is shadeless and hot, and it has certainly not
improved the local microclimate. Neither does it enhance the aesthetic appeal of the town or contribute to the
town's attractiveness to foreign tourists. There is a cluster of plants that covers an area of approx. 60 sq.m., but this
can not be considered a botanical garden in any sense of the word.
This open space is now used for mass prayers, albeit only rarely (Idul Fitri is celebrated once every 355 days). It is
also used for sports activities, as far as it is suitable for them. Trading is not permitted on the field.




                                                             - 90 -

Conclusions and Evaluation

As a matter of fact, the original plans of local government have not been implemented, and on these grounds the
project could be considered as having largely been a failure. This, however, might be too superficial an evaluation.
The important innovation in Tanjung Pinang was not the provision of a technical installation to the design
specifications of local government technocrats. Instead, the important innovation was the intensive consultation
with the local stakeholders, which revealed that their aspirations were significantly different from the priorities of
local government, and the adjustment of the plans of local government to these aspirations.

It is the taxpayer's right to decide, through a suitable mechanism, how tax revenue should be spent, in accordance
with the taxpayer's priorities and felt needs. It is a basic feature of a democratic state that the voice of the electorate
takes precedence over the opinion of technocrats. Insofar, the handling of this case by local government of Tanjung
Pinang, has demonstrated important innovations and improvements in local governance.

In a technical evaluation, the project may be seen as having yielded a rather disappointing result. In a political
evaluation, however, the project can be seen as having been fairly successful and beneficial. This success and
benefit are likely to make this innovation sustainable and replicable in two ways: firstly, the continued maintenance
of the field is now quite likely, because its construction reflected the aspirations and felt needs of the taxpayer.
Secondly, the consultative approach used in this instance may well turn out to be very sustainable and replicable
because it has obviously persuaded local government to be prepared to adjust its priorities and plans to the felt
needs and expressed aspirations of the taxpayer.




                                                           - 91 -

                               Handling of Municipal Solid Waste in Majalengka

Background

Majalengka is a small town in the lowlands of West Java Province. Like all other towns and cities, it faces a
rapidly increasing generation of general municipal solid waste, to a degree that begins to overstretch its handling
capacities. Collection and transport facilities are increasingly insufficient, and the available site for the disposal of
such waste is becoming too small. Also, local government faces a shortage of qualified human resources for the
handling of this problem.

Therefore, local government developed a plan which was submitted as a proposal to the MIP. The plan envisaged
that the handling of general municipal solid waste should be delegated to subdistrict ("kelurahan") level, and that
local cooperatives should play a main role in this context. The general municipal solid waste should be separated
into compostable waste, recyclable plastic waste, and the rest that was to be deposited in the municipal dump site.
Local government would take care of the transport from the temporary to the final waste dump site, and of the
depositing of the waste there.

The cooperatives should collect the waste from the individual households, transport it to a temporary dump site,
and separate it there into the three components mentioned above. The cooperatives should also handle the
production and marketing of compost, and the production and marketing of plastic granulate from recycled plastic
waste. The operational profits of the cooperatives, together with regular user charges, should pay for (a) the cost of
collection and transport, (b) part of the transport cost from the temporary to the final waste dump site, and (c) the
building-up of the cooperatives' capital so that these cooperatives could also function as savings-and-credit
associations.

Implementation and Outcome

The project facilitated the formation of new cooperatives in 6 subdistricts. The cooperatives had up to 40 members,
which is still far less than the average number of households in a subdistrict. The leading members of the
cooperatives were usually government servants because they were reportedly seen by the public as being more
capable to run a cooperative successfully.

Each cooperative member was obliged to pay Rp. 5,000 (about US$0.60) as a one-off saving, and another Rp.
1,000 (about US$0.12) as compulsory monthly saving, to qualify for a credit.

The project provided Rp. 2.5 million (IBRD funds) for site preparation in the 6 temporary dumping / composting /
recycling sites, whereas the local government allocated a same amount of funds as an initial capital for each
cooperative. The project also provided mechanical equipment for composting worth Rp. 23 million (about
US$2,800) in each of 4 subdistricts, and equipment for the production of plastic granulate form plastic waste worth
Rp. 27 million (about US$3,200) for each of the other 2 subdistricts.

The municipality made available 5 staff in each subdistrict, and each subdistrict made available an average of
1,000 sq.m. of land for the temporary dumping / composting / recycling site. Local parliament stated its support for
the project.

Some of the cooperative members were given training in waste handling and recycling by the relevant local
government agency.

The newly formed cooperatives embarked almost immediately on the granting of credit to their members and
exhausted their working capital in this way, which rendered them unable to conduct the envisaged activities of
collecting, transporting, separating, and composting / recycling the municipal solid waste, as had been envisaged.
Most of the credits granted turned sour, and the payback amounts are far from sufficient to allow the cooperatives
to run the activities for which they had been formed in the first place.

As a consequence, no composting or plastic recycling is taking place, and the equipment purchased for these
purposes is lying idle.

Technically, organizationally, and financially the project has thus been a total failure. The granting of credit to
cooperative members may have included a strong element of deliberate mismanagement and favoritism, but exact
information is not available.



                                                          - 92 -

Conclusions and Lessons

Like so many times before in Indonesia, the formation of cooperatives has failed to yield the desired results. The
main reason is that the cooperatives have not grown from the grassroots, have not been established through a
self-reliant process, and are not seen as representing the interests of the people but rather as parachuted into the
local context by the government. As a result, the managers of these cooperatives do not have a strong feeling of
accountability to their members, and they tend to feel that accountability to the government, as the guardian of the
interests of the public, was theoretical only.

It was a grave mistake to allow the newly formed cooperatives to be active in the micro-finance sector, because (a)
the clearly lacked the mandate and the trust from the grassroots and (b) they clearly lacked any qualification and
track record in this field.

The planned multiple functions of the cooperatives (collection and transport of the waste, sustained production and
marketing of compost and of plastic granulate, and all related business administration) would have been very
challenging even for much stronger and more experienced organizations, let alone for newly established
cooperatives with little qualification, no experience, and doubtful dedication.

Aggravating this challenge with the extra task of handling micro-finance was a fatal error whose consequences
could have been foreseeable. The error was compounded by the fact that the cooperatives were allowed to shift
resources between their two unrelated fields of activity, depleting the working capital meant for the handling of
solid waste.

Lessons for the appraisal of future similar project proposals should be:
    the artificial formation of cooperatives is highly unlikely to be successful and sustainable;
    newly established cooperatives are highly unlikely to possess the qualification, and possibly even the
     dedication, for complex tasks like the production and marketing of compost and of plastic granulate;
    profit oriented tasks like production and marketing of compost and of plastic granulate are much better suited
     to be taken care of by the private sector;
    the field of micro-finance requires considerable experience, dedication, management integrity, and grassroots
     support, and these qualifications are most unlikely to be available in a cooperative that has been artificially
     spawned through a government initiative;
    activities in the micro-finance sector require thought-out and clear guidelines as well as a functioning
     regulation and tight supervision mechanism; none of these existed in the project;
    the allocation of two very challenging but essentially unrelated tasks to newly formed cooperatives is extremely
     risky.




                                                         - 93 -

Additional Annex 19. Financial Analysis

This annex provides a financial analysis for selected, revenue generating subprojects. The assumptions and other
parameters used in the analysis are shown in each of the following tables. The result of the analysis that one
subproject has a Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) of approx. 19%, another one a FIRR of approx. 12%,
whilst it is negative for another three analyzed subprojects, where the Net Present Value (NPV) is negative under
an assumed discount rate of 10% p.a.

KOTA GARUT
Utilizing appropriate technology for handling hazardous and toxic waste pollution
2003 price
i = 10%


No Component                                       Year : 2003            Year-5        Year-10

1. Capital
    1.1 Design works                               179,382,500                 -             -
    1.2 Land                                       302,500,000                 -             -
    1.3 Construction (Lt 15, Slv 25%)              310,685,045        15,534,252     15,534,252
    1.4 Machinery (Lt 15, Slv 25%)                 587,455,000        29,372,750     29,372,750
    1.5 Vehicle/transport (Lt 10, Slv 20%)          91,960,000         7,356,800      7,356,800
    1.6 Office equipment (Lt 10, Slv 0%)            36,905,000         3,690,500      3,690,500
2. Working Capital                                         -                   -             -
    2.1 Labor costs                                 62,436,000        67,582,734     74,616,800
    2.2 Input production                           132,374,000       160,901,424    205,355,521
    2.3 Management costs                            71,846,110        77,768,539     85,862,752
Total out flow                                   1,775,543,655       362,207,000    421,789,375
3. Revenue                                         480,054,190       572,473,551    713,406,199
4. Annual cost saving 2002                           3,000,000         3,000,000      3,000,000
Total in flow                                      483,054,190       575,473,551    716,406,199




Balance                                         (1,292,489,465)      213,266,550    294,616,824


Assumption :
    Selling price increase 4.5% annually                                  FIRR = 12%
    input production inccrease 5% annually
    Labor costs increase 2% annualy
    Managemen costs increase 2% annualy
    Cost saving increase 0% annualy




                                                          - 94 -

 KABUPATEN BANJARNEGARA
 Inter-regional Cooperation for Managing Tourism Area of Dieng
 2003 price
 i = 10%


 No Component                                             Year : 2003         Year-5       Year-10     Year-15

 1. Capital
     1.1 Design works                                      79,391,730            -             -            -
     1.2 Construction (Lt 15, Slv 25%)                   863,189,800      43,159,490    43,159,490   43,159,490
     1.3 Supporting Facilities (Lt 15, Slv 25%)          216,015,250      10,800,763    10,800,763   10,800,763
 Total out flow                                        1,158,596,780      53,960,253    53,960,253   53,960,253
 2. Revenue from ticket selling                          242,000,000     242,000,000   242,000,000  242,000,000
 Total in flow                                           242,000,000     242,000,000   242,000,000  242,000,000




 Balance                                                (916,596,780)    188,039,748   188,039,748  188,039,748



                                                                             FIRR = 19%




KABUPATEN JEPARA
Vermicomposting for handling garbage in final dump site
2003 price
i = 10%


No Component                                                      Year : 2003           Year-5           Year-10

1. Capital
     1.1 Design works                                             105,814,500               -                -
     1.2 Land                                                      31,012,300               -                -
     1.3 Construction (Lt 15, Slv 25%)                            409,016,300        20,450,815       20,450,815
     1.4 Machinery (Lt 15, Slv 25%)                               219,947,750        10,997,388       10,997,388
     1.5 Vehicle/transport (Lt 10, Slv 20%)                        97,172,983         7,773,839        7,773,839
     1.6 Office equipment (Lt 10, Slv 0%)                          40,595,500         4,059,550        4,059,550
2. Working Capital (2002)                                                 -                 -                -
     2.1 Labor costs                                               31,680,000        31,680,000       31,680,000
     2.2 Input production (initial)                                54,450,000               -                -
     2.3 Input production (annual)                                 46,904,000        46,904,000       46,904,000
Total out flow                                                    989,689,333       121,865,591     121,865,591
Revenue and efficiency (2002)                                             -                 -                -
3. Revenue from vermics & worms selling                             7,920,000         7,920,000        7,920,000
4. Efficiency from garbage management                              17,820,000        17,820,000       17,820,000
5. Efficiency from Licid processing                                 1,650,000         1,650,000        1,650,000
6. Other efficiencies                                               1,012,000         1,012,000        1,012,000
7. Effiency from land *                                            26,400,000        26,400,000       26,400,000
Total in flow                                                      54,802,000        54,802,000       54,802,000

Balance                                                          (934,887,333)      (67,063,591)     (67,063,591)


Note :
     * Efficiency due to longger lifetime of land of final dumpsite                     FIRR = n.a.




                                                                       - 95 -

KABUPATEN SINTANG
Vermicomposting for Handling Garbage in Final Dumpsite
2003 price
i = 10%


No Component                                                     Year : 2003          Year-5           Year-10

1. Capital (1998)
    1.1 Design works                                             273,786,700              -                -
    1.2 Land                                                      76,499,225              -                -
    1.3 Construction (Lt 15, Slv 25%)                         1,056,494,560       52,824,728        52,824,728
    1.4 Machinery (Lt 15, Slv 25%)                               346,259,650      17,312,983        17,312,983
    1.5 Vehicle/transport (Lt 10, Slv 20%) - 2003                278,500,000      22,280,000        22,280,000
2. Working Capital (2002)                                                -                -                -
    2.1 Labor costs                                               16,500,000      17,860,131        19,719,027
    2.2 Input production                                          19,800,000      24,067,024        30,716,299
    2.3 Management costs (1998)                                   40,262,750      43,581,695        48,117,713
Total out flow                                                2,108,102,885      177,926,560       190,970,750
3. Revenue from compost selling (2002)                            95,040,000     102,874,352       113,581,598
4. Annual cost saving (2002)*                                     35,640,000      35,640,000        35,640,000
Total in flow                                                    130,680,000     138,514,352       149,221,598




Balance                                                      (1,977,422,885)      (39,412,208)     (41,749,152)


Assumption :
     Input production increase 5% annually                                            FIRR = n.a.
     Labor costs increase 2% annually
     Managemen costs increase 2% annually
     Revenue from compost selling increase 2% annually
Note :
    * Efficiency due to longger lifetime of land of final dumpsite



KABUPATEN SEMARANG
Small-scale biogas production to provide domestic energy altenative and handle environment pollution
2003 price
i = 10%


No Component                                                     Year : 2003            Year-5           Year-10

1. Capital
    1.1 Design works                                              41,914,400               -                  -
    1.2 Land                                                      75,504,000               -                  -
    1.3 Construction (Lt 10, Slv 17.5%)                         501,012,600         41,333,540        41,333,540
    1.4 Machinery (Lt 15, Slv 25%)                              112,445,300         5,622,265          5,622,265
Total out flow                                                  730,876,300         46,955,805        46,955,805
2. Cost savings * (2002)                                          45,709,269        45,709,269        45,709,269
Total in flow                                                     45,709,269        45,709,269        45,709,269




Balance                                                        (685,167,031)        (1,246,535)        (1,246,535)


Note :
    * Average efficiency from energy cost Rp. 660,000 per household per year
                                                                                       FIRR =  n.a.




                                                                           - 96 -

 Additional Annex 20. Successful, Sustainable, and Replicable Subprojects


                           Total Subprojects             Number of subprojects that Number of subprojects   Number of subprojects
Subproject            Number              Percentage      reached direct objective  that appear sustainable that appear replicable
Category           A1    A2     Tot     A1     A2     Tot    A1      A2       Tot       A1      A2      Tot    A1       A2

Participatory        3    2       5     5%    22%     8%      2        2        4         1       2       3      1        2
Planning

Public               6    4      10   11%     44%    15%      4        3        7         3       2       5       -       -
Information &
Dialogue,
Handling of
Complaints

Permit               3    3       6     5%    33%     9%      2        2        4         2       1       3       -       1
Simplification
and One-roof
Permit System

Waste               13     -     13   23%      0%    20%      8         -       8         8       -       8      3        -
Management
and/or
Composting

Income              13     -     13   23%      0%    20%      9         -       9         6       -       6       -       -
Generation and
Support to
Informal Economy

Environmental        5     -      5     9%     0%     8%      3         -       3         2       -       2       -       -
Management and
City Greening

Heritage             7     -      7   12%      0%    11%      7         -       7         6       -       6       -       -
Conservation,
Tourism
Promotion

Public Service       7     -      7   12%      0%    11%      7         -       7         5       -       5       -       -

Total               57    9      66 100% 100% 100%           42        7          49     35       5      38      4        3

% of Total      100 % 100 %       -                       74 %    78 %             - 61 %    56 %          -  7 %    33 %
Components

% of Total                  100 %                                           74 %                      58 %                    11 %
Subprojects




                                                   - 97 -

- 98 -

