Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4440 IND
Loan Agreement
(Municipal Innovations Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 16, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4440 IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 16, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows:
“Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be 
derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Affected Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of  
Part A of  the  Project,  has  or  would  have  his  or  her: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural land and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, 
work, or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; 
(b)
“BAPPENAS” means the National Development Planning Agency of the Borrower 
and includes any successor thereto; 
(c)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing April 1 and 
ending March 31; 
(d)
“Grant” means a grant made available by the Borrower out of the proceeds 
of the Loan to a Participating PEMDA Tk. II for a Sub-project under Part A of the 
Project; 
(e)
“Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement” means the guidelines 
approved by the Borrower pursuant to Instruksi Menteri Dalam Negeri No. 193.2-992, 
dated November 9, 1998, pertaining to land acquisition and resettlement and 
compensation of Affected Persons under the Project, as set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and in the Sub-project Implementation Agreements, and as 
such Guidelines may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank;
(f) 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan” means a resettlement and 
rehabilitation action plan to be prepared by a Participating PEMDA Tk. II pursuant to 
the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement; 
(g)
“Participating PEMDA Tk. II” means a Kabupaten and Kotamadya level 
government responsible for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Part A of the 
Project; 
(h)
“PEMDA Tk. II” means a Kabupaten and Kotamadya level government; 
(i)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established and operating within 
PUOD pursuant to the Ministry of Home Affairs SK No. 650-969 of October 29, 1998 and 
maintained in accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(j)
“PUOD” means the Directorate General of Public Administration and 
Regional Autonomy within the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs; 
(k)
“Rupiah” or “Rp” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(m)
“Sub-project” means a specific municipal innovation project carried out 
by a Participating PEMDA Tk. II under Part A of the Project and utilizing the proceeds 
of a Grant; and
Page  3
(n)
“Sub-Project Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the PMU and a Participating PEMDA Tk. II pursuant to paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five million 
dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of a 
Grant made under Part A of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for a Sub-project and in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Loan Account is requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for Parts A.2 and B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
in the case of a state commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering, 
environmental, and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. \0cSection 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
Page  4
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a  format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts, and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors,  as the Bank 
may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Page  5
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Mr. Darsjah, 
Director General of Budget
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Mark Baird, 
Director for Indonesia
Page  6
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants under 
   4,450,000
100% of Grant
Part A of the
amount
Project
(2)
Consultant’s
     500,000
100%
services and
training under
Parts A.2 and B
of the Project
(3)
Fee
      50,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement 
    ________
TOTAL
   5,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and  
(b)
in respect of a Sub-project under Category (1) unless a Sub-project 
Implementation Agreement has been entered into for such Sub-project in accordance with 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis  
of  statements  of  expenditures  for expenditures for (i) Grants, (ii) training, and 
(iii) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 
equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in (i) encouraging 
efficient innovation projects by PEMDA Tk. II; (ii) promoting the dissemination of 
successful innovation projects to other PEMDA Tk. II; and (iii) improving central 
government practices affecting PEMDA Tk. II.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Municipal Innovation Sub-Projects 
1.
Carrying out of efficiency-enhancing innovative service delivery projects in 
Participating PEMDA Tk. II through the provision of Grants to such PEMDA Tk. II. 
2.
Carrying out of pilot projects to improve the administration, transparency in 
Page  7
planning and implementation of expenditures, and disclosure of the performance of the 
PEMDA Tk. II in relation to other PEMDA Tk. II, with support from central government 
agencies as needed. 
Part B:
Institutional Development 
1.
Strengthening the capacity of the PMU in Project administration, supervision and 
monitoring through the provision of consultants’ services, office equipment and 
materials. 
2.
Carrying out of workshops and dissemination activities relating to successful 
innovation projects by the PMU. 
3.
Carrying out of training for selected staff of PEMDA Tk. II towards efficiency 
enhancement within their agencies.  
4.
Carrying out of a program of awards of excellence for municipal innovation 
projects. 
*    *   *   *   *   * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
Page  8
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the  Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, 
Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly 
upon the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
Page  9
June 15 and December 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after June, 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Shopping 
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to 
a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval,  in  accordance with   the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first five contracts for works and goods the following 
procedures shall apply: 
(a)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any contract under 
small works or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(b)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under small works or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
Page  10
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(c)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services under Part B of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part B of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  11
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall maintain the PMU until completion of the Project with 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, in consultation 
with an independent selection committee, select Sub-projects that meet the following 
requirements, and shall furnish such proposed Sub-projects to the Bank for approval:
(a)
each Sub-project proposed under Part A of the Project shall be an 
innovation relating to the sustainable improvement of a PEMDA Tk. II activity, among 
others, urban management, poverty alleviation, the environment, and community and 
private sector participation;
(b)
the maximum total amount of Grant funding approved for each Sub-project 
shall be $100,000 equivalent; and
(c)
the Implementation Agreement for the proposed Sub-project shall include 
contributions by the Participating PEMDA Tk. II in an amount equal to at least 25% of  
the Sub-project cost. 
3.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall, through the PMU, 
enter into a Sub-project Implementation Agreement with a Participating PEMDA Tk. II, 
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and cause each Participating PEMDA Tk. 
II to carry out the Sub-project in accordance with such Sub-project Implementation 
Agreement.
4.
In carrying out Part A of the Project the Borrower shall ensure that, prior to 
the carrying out of works under a Sub-project, the PMU shall have completed a 
technical review of such Sub-project and shall have confirmed the following: 
(a)
appropriate engineering and environmental standards and practices that 
would minimize any acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of Affected 
Persons have been considered in the design of the Sub-project; and
(b)
the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement have been complied with, 
and, if applicable, appropriate compensation arrangements have been completed and are 
satisfactory to the Affected Persons as set forth under the Guidelines for 
Compensation and Resettlement and paragraph 5 of this Schedule.
5.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of 
persons and avoid the displacement of said persons; 
(b)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of persons is 
unavoidable under a proposed Sub-project, ensure that the Participating PEMDA Tk. II 
shall, before carrying out the works which would result in such acquisition or 
displacement, make available to such person or persons, compensation in accordance 
with the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement; and
(c)
in the event that two hundred or more persons are adversely affected by a 
Sub-project:
(i)
prepare a land acquisition and resettlement plan in accordance 
with the 
Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement and 
furnish such plan to the Bank 
for approval; and
(ii)
prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensure that all 
Affected Persons 
shall have been compensated in accordance with the 
provisions of said plan.
Page  12
6.
The Borrower shall ensure that: 
(a)
each Sub-project is reviewed annually by not later than August 30, and a 
report is prepared and furnished to the Bank by not later than September 30 in each 
year, integrating the results of the review and the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Sub-project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Sub-project; 
and 
(b)
if there is a finding of unsatisfactory implementation of a Sub-project, 
except for cases of force majeure, the Borrower shall cancel the undisbursed amount of 
the Grant.
7.
In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out the designs for the pilot projects in accordance with terms of 
reference and timing acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
not later than March 31, 2000, furnish to the Bank for comments the 
recommendations of said designs;
(c)
not later than June 30, 2000, prepare action plans for the implementation 
of the recommendations of the designs, taking into account the comments of the Bank on 
such recommendations; and 
(d)
promptly thereafter, carry out each of such action plans. 8.
In 
carrying out Part B.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall establish a panel to review 
by December 31, 2000, PEMDA Tk. II innovation projects and select a maximum of three 
projects for the award of excellence.
9.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about October 31 in each year, commencing October 31, 1999, and 
until completion of the Project, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by November 30 in each year, commencing November 
30, 1999, or such later date as the Bank shall request, and until completion of the 
Project, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6 
Project Performance Indicators 
(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PPI TABLE, THE TABLE IS TOO BIG)
SCHEDULE 7 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
Page  13
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Page  14
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished  
to  the  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
