Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15577-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MAY 28, 1996
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



- ii -
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(April 1996)
Currency Unit = Thai Baht (B)
US$1.00 = B 25.0
B1.00 = US$0.04
ABBREVIATIONS
ASEAN       Association of South East Asian Nations
CSC         Civil Service Commission
DGE         Department of General Education
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
MOE         Ministry of Education
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NEC         National Education Commission
NESDB       National Economic and Social Development Board
O&M         Operations and Maintenance
ORIC        Office of the Rajabhat Institutes Council
ONPEC       Office of the National Primary Education Commission
PCR         Project Completion Report
PCU         Project Coordinating Unit
POC         Project Operating Committee
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PPAR        Project Performance Audit Report
PPO         Policy and Planning Office
PSC         Project Steering Committee
RI          Rajabhat Institute
RIC         Rajabhat Institutes Council
SEQI        Secondary Education Quality Improvement
SOE         Statements of Expenditure
TDRI        Thailand Development Research Institute
VTE         Vocational and Technical Education
Government of Thailand Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30
Academic Year
April - March



- 111 -
THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No
Loan and Project Summary ...................                                vi
I. EDUCATION SECTOR .
A. Introduction .1
Education and Economic Growth                 .I
The System                           .2
B.  Secondary Education in Thailand                     .3
Structure                          .3
Administration                        .3
Finance                            .4
Physical Facilities and Equipment             .5
Curriculum                          .5
Access and Equity                      .7
Teachers                           .8
Government's Policies and Plan .10
II.  THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED .                            II
A.  Bank's Experience in Education .11
B. Lessons Learned .14
C  Bank's Assistance Strategy .14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Thailand during
May 1-26, 1995 comprising Messrs. W. Rees (Mission Leader), G. Aylward (Science
Educator - Consultant), S-Z Sung (Project Management Specialist - Consultant), M.
Turner (Education Planner - Consultant) and Ms. 0. Regel (Research Analyst). Peer
reviewers were Mr. A. Aime (SAIPH) and Ms. A. Aarons (SAIPH). The report has been
endorsed by Mr. S. Burmester (Chief, EAIHR) and Mr. J. Shivakumar (Acting Director,
EAI).



- Iv -
III.       THE  PROJECT                                                                  ................................................. 17
A.         Origin of the Project .................................................                                                       17
B.         Project Background  and  Rationale ................................................                                           18
C.         Project Objectives ................................................                                                            19
D.         Project Description ................................................                                                          19
IV.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION ..................... 22
A.    Costs ................................................                                                                              22
B.    Financing ................................................                                                                         24
C.         Project Management and  Implementation .................................................                                      24
D.         Monitoring and Review .................................................                                                       25
E.         Procurement ................................................                                                                  26
F.         Disbursements ................................................                                                                 28
G.         Accounts, Auditing  and  Reporting .................................................                                          28
H.         Environmental Impact .................................................                                                        29
I.          Impact on Women .................................................                                                            29
J.         Project Sustainability ................................................                                                       29
V.    BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................................                                                                29
A.    Benefits .................................................                                                                          29
B.    Risks ................................................                                                                              30
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......................... 30
TABLES
4.1  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure .23
4.2 Financing Plan .24
4.3  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .27
ANNEXES
I.    Number and Proportion of Students in Public and Private
Institutions, by  Level and  Type of Education, 1994 ..........................................    32
2.         The Government's Program: Three More Years in School .................................. 33
3.          Staff Development Program, 1997-2001 ..........................................                                              36
4.         Expenditure Accounts by Year ..........................................                                                       37
5.         Organization  Chart for Project Management ..........................................                                         38
6.         Project Implementation Plan ..........................................                                                        39
7.         Bank Supervision Mission Plan ..........................................                                                      41



- v -
8.        Kev Performance Indicators .............................................                                           42
9.        Disbursements .............................................                                                        44
10.       Selected Documents Available in the Project File .............................................  45
CHARTS
Chart I - The Structure of the National Education System  ................................... 46
Chart 2 - Organization of the Ministry of Education ........................................   47
Chart 3 - Number of Students by Educational Level, 1992 ................................... 48
Chart 4 - Number of Students in Secondary Education and Higher Education by
Grade  and Education Type: 1992 .................................                                    49
MAP  IBRD Number 27999 .50






- vi -
THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Kingdom of Thailand
Implementing:    Ministry of Education
Agency:
Beneficiary:       Not applicable
Poverty:          Not applicable
Amount:            US$81.9 million equivalent
Terms:             Standard amnortization term, grace period and interest rate for fixed
rate US dollar single currency loans with an expected
disbursement period of 3-6 years.
Commitment         0.75% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
Fee:              signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:    See para. 4.5
Net Present Value: Not applicable
Map:              IBRD No. 27999
Project
Identification No:  4791






THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
I. EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Introduction
Education and Economic Growth
1.1         During the past two decades, Thailand has undergone a rapid
transformation from a predominantly agriculture-based society to an emerging industrial
economy oriented towards manufacturing, services and external trade. In the 1980s, the
emphasis of Government policy switched from import-substitution industrialization
policies to export-oriented manufacturing. Real GDP grew at almost 11 % annually
during 1987-93, and even as the economy slowed in 1991-1992, growth remained close
to 8% p.a. The share of manufacturing in GDP rose from 16% in 1970 to over 27% in
1993, with most of the increase occurring in the late 1980s. During the 1990s, agriculture
is expected to continue to fall as a proportion of GDP and manufacturing will continue to
increase, while becoming more sophisticated and diversified in terms of both technology
and products. Family ownership and extended family business organizations have given
way to a variety of corporate entities with organized workforces, modern management
systems, and increasingly sophisticated technological processes. The Government now
makes few direct interventions in the market and leaves the leading role in decision-
making to the private sector. Indeed, official policies actively encourage and support
private enterprise.
1.2         Economic policy, and the structure and dynamics of the economy shape
the nature of employment demand, thus playing an important role in determining the
external and internal efficiency of the education system. The combination of sound
macro-economic policies and favorable external circumstances has led to rapid changes in
the economy of Thailand, with significant implications for future employment and for
education policy. Rapid economic development has brought about an increasing demand
for well-trained workers, technicians, and engineers in all fields. Fueled by private sector
expansion, jobs are being restructured to accommodate new technologies, and there is a
growing demand for employees with higher level skills. This has become particularly
critical in the manufacturing sector where employment has grown steadily over the past
decade and where rapid expansion is expected to continue.
1.3         To maintain strong momentum in its development, Thailand must address
the emerging human-resource constraint. This takes the form of shortages of scientific
and technical skills at all levels and inadequate enrollment in secondary education. The
latter has resulted in a poorly educated workforce (over 80% of Thai workers have only



- 2 -
primary education or less) which reduces the trainability of workers and retards
productivity growth.  Secondary education plays a pivotal role in both the education
system and the economy through providing qualified inputs to higher education and
educated entrants to the workforce.   Consequently, the need to expand secondary
schooling and improve its quality are viewed as high priorities in Thailand. Furthermore,
the long-term objective of becoming a technologically-advanced industrial country
stresses the need to place special emphasis on education in the strategic subjects of
science and mathematics and English.
The System
1.4         Thailand's educational system, which is highly developed, can be divided
into four levels: pre-primary, primary, secondary and tertiary (Chart 1). A strong
commitment to equity has led to universal access to primary education, with high
completion rates, as well as to the establishment of effective nonformal programs to
increase adult literacy. In preparation for primary education, children enter the pre-
school level at age 3 or 4 and then continue to primary school which requires 6 years to
complete. Primary education is compulsory and free to all. Lower secondary education
has been expanded to provide places for about half of the primary school graduates, and
in principle there is an upper secondary place for each graduate of lower secondary
education, half of which are in vocational schools and colleges. During the late 1980s,
secondary enrollment rates in Thailand remained stagnant at around 30% of the age
group. This was about half the rates in Malaysia and Indonesia and one-third of those in
Korea and Taiwan, China. The Government has responded to the problem by extending
the basic education cycle from 6 to 9 years. By 1997, all grade 6 graduates will enter
grade 7 (para. 1.19). This policy will result in a corresponding expansion of upper
secondary enrollments.
1.5         At the upper secondary level, a student may choose either the academic or
the vocational stream. Vocational education is a major component of the educational
system, accounting for about 45% of upper secondary enrollment in 1994. At the end of
secondary schooling, about 43% of the students take the University Entrance
Examination which screens entrants to degree programs in conventional public
universities. Access to these universities has been tightly controlled and present
enrollments of about 155,000 have remained relatively stable in recent years. Open
universities have helped accommodate the high growth in tertiary enrollments, enrolling
about 495,000 students in 1993 or 76% of total tertiary enrollment.
1.6         Responsibilities for educational administration and planning are shared
among several central government agencies. Administration of primary, secondary and
post-secondary (non-university) education, including teacher training, is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Education (MOE). For supervisory purposes, the MOE
has grouped the country's 75 provinces into 12 educational regions. At the higher



-3 -
education level, the Ministry of University Affairs oversees 21 public universities and 27
private universities and colleges.
1.7         The Government loosely controls private education which forms an
important part of the education system and accounts for about 15% of primary, 14% of
secondary, and 14% of higher education enrollments (Annex 1). Most private schools in
Thailand are proprietary schools, with a few religiously-affiliated schools. There are two
categories of private school: those offering general education and those offering
vocational education. For the general stream, private schools range from kindergarten to
secondary and their total number was 2,943 in 1993. There were 306 private vocational
schools in 1993. The MOE also classifies private schools according to their financial
standing: subsidized and non-subsidized. For private schools with a sound financial
position, no subsidy is given and MOE does not control the ceiling of school fees.
Private subsidized schools are of two types: (a) those receiving 60% of the cost per
student; and (b) those receiving 40% of the cost per student. Fees in subsidized schools
are controlled by MOE (para. 1. 14).
B. Secondary Education in Thailand
Structure
1.8         Secondary education comprises public and private schools, public and
private vocational colleges, non-formal education delivery systems, and extended primary
schools offering lower secondary classes in rural areas. All of these schools are
administered independently of each other and serve different target groups. Within this
structure, the majority of the public secondary school network is administered by the
Department of General Education (DGE) of MOE. Secondary education is divided into
two levels - lower secondary and upper secondary - each of three years' duration.
Administration
1.9         Within the MOE, secondary education is managed by several departments
(Chart 2). Among them, DGE is the largest provider of both lower and upper secondary
education, managing 2,144 schools, of which 623 offer lower secondary education, 1,513
lower and upper secondary education, and 8 offer only upper secondary education. These
schools enrolled approximately 2 million students or about 66% of the total secondary
enrollment in 1994. With the new initiative to offer lower secondary classes in selected
primary schools (4,300 out of 30,000 primary schools), the Office of the National
Primary Education Commission (ONPEC) has become directly involved in secondary
education. Both DGE and ONPEC have established provincial centers to coordinate
school-related activities such as planning and implementation of DGE's and ONPEC's
policies, preparation of budgetary proposals, general administration, training and
supervision, and monitoring and evaluation of school performance.



- 4 -
1.10         Decentralization is more advanced in primary than in secondary education.
The provincial and district-level offices of the ONPEC have full authority to manage
primary schools in their geographical areas. With respect to secondary education,
however, the director of the Provincial General Education Office's main autonomous
responsibility is to select and hire teachers. The director also has control over contracts
not exceeding about $600,000 equivalent.
1.11         In addition to DGE and ONPEC, the Department of Vocational Education
is also responsible for vocational and technical education at the upper secondary and
post-secondary levels. The Office of the Private Education Commission supervises
private primary and secondary schools but it does not intervene in the internal
management of these schools.' The Department of Non-Formal Education is responsible
for adult education which includes secondary education for out-of-school adults.
Demonstration schools are under the jurisdiction of the Office of the Rajabhat Institutes
Council (ORIC -formerly the Teacher Education Department) and individual university
faculties of education.2
Finance
1.12         Public education is supported almost entirely by the central government.
Fees are levied at the secondary and tertiary levels but cover only a minor proportion of
recurrent costs. The share of the central government budget allocated for education grew
from 17% in 1989 to 19.6% in 1993, and over the same period total education
expenditure (public and private) increased its share of GDP from about 2.7% to 3.6%.
Between 1964 and 1993, pre-primary and primary education received the largest
allocation of the education budget (between 51% and 59%). During the same period,
secondary education ranked second, receiving between 18% and 28% of the total
education budget and this has been steadily increasing. In 1993, public expenditure by
level of education was divided as follows: 49% primary (excluding pre-primary), 28%
secondary, 17% higher and 6% other (including assistance to private schools and
educational services and support). These proportions are in line with averages for other
Asian countries.
1.13         As a percentage of the national budget, general secondary education
represented 2% in the late 1960's, increased to a peak of 3.4% in 1978, and has remained
around 3% since then. The trend of vocational secondary education followed the same
pattern - it was around 4% in 1960s, peaked at above 4% in the late 1970s and has
remained around 3.6% in the 1980s. When comparing expenditure per student in
' The Commission monitors and controls the establishment of private schools, and provides periodic school
inspections. It also ensures access and equity for the poor by keeping the tuition ceiling low. This is done
through the provision of subsidies - 40% or 60% of the cost per student to those private schools which are
unable to support themselves.
2 These are schools established as "research laboratories" for teacher training. They offer classes from
kindergarten to secondary levels.



- 5 -
secondary education with GNP per capita, the lowest share was in 1973 at 9.8%, and the
highest was in 1983 at 18.4%. The trend of this share began to stabilize after 1984 at an
average of 17%. About 70% of the secondary education budget is allocated to salaries,
15% to equipment, land and construction, 12% to school subsidies and 3% to other
expenditures.
1.14          A cost sharing policy has been established for all levels of education.
Tuition fees can be levied under the guidelines set by the Ministry of Finance. To
provide flexibility, school administrators can adjust the amount of fees to reflect the local
economic environment but the amount may not exceed B 1,000 for both public lower and
upper secondary schools. Tuition fees in private schools are also regulated. For private
non-subsidized schools, the tuition fees may not exceed B3,900 per annum for lower
secondary and B4,300 per annum for upper secondary.
Physical Facilities and Equipment.
1.15          The quality of rural secondary school facilities, particularly those limited
to the lower cycle, tends to be much lower than in the larger urban schools. They often
consist of a small permanent building to which the villagers have added temporary
structures using local materials. Equipment is outdated, especially in the science
laboratories (where these exist), libraries are poorly equipped and teaching materials are
inadequate. As a result, it is difficult to attract qualified teachers and to teach the
curriculum  effectively. Many students from better-off rural families often bypass the
small schools in their own localities to gain admission to the larger provincial schools,
which offer both lower and upper secondary levels and higher-quality teaching. Physical
facilities and equipment for science and language labs in the Rajabhat Institutes (RIs i.e.
teacher colleges) are also inadequate by the standards of tertiary institutions and require
upgrading. In the cases of libraries, learning resource centers, computer labs and multi-
media educational technology, the level of provision and development is uneven across
institutes but generally unsatisfactory.
Curriculum
1.16          The Department of Curriculum and Instruction Development of the MOE
is responsible for curriculum development and testing at both primary and secondary
levels. The reform of 1978 introduced the 6-3-3 system and the "diversified" curriculum
was implemented in all secondary schools. Since then secondary education has been
vocationalized, starting first with lower secondary and followed by u3per-secondary in
1981. The main characteristics of the new curriculum are its flexibility, the provision of
3The curriculum was changed from the traditional style of subject curriculum to the credit system to give
more flexibility and efficiency to learning. At the lower secondary level, there are 6 credits of elective
subjects for the first two years and 12 credits for the third year. At the upper secondary level, students can
choose up to 40 credits out of the required 75 credits.  These elective subjects range from traditional
academic subjects to vocational subjects.



- 6 -
work experience, and the introduction of pre-vocational and vocational subjects at the
lower and upper-secondary levels.4 The Institute for the Promotion of Teaching Science
and Technology was established in 1971 by MOE to develop science and mathematics
curricula for secondary schools. The Institute is involved in continuous curriculum
development activities and related inservice teacher training and preparation of teaching
materials. The terminal grade examination administered nationally has been abolished,
and testing and examination are now administered internally by each school. In order to
promote testing standards, schools are organized into clusters for closer testing
collaboration.
1.17         Since Thailand has a local rather than a national assessment system, it is
difficult to judge with any accuracy the overall level of student achievement in the
secondary schools. However, the results of a 1983 study on academic achievement
indicated that current levels of academic achievement were unsatisfactory.5 For example,
lower secondary students scored below the 50th percentile in most subjects. Upper
secondary students scored slightly above the average in social studies, rational problem-
solving ability and Thai language, but had very low test scores in mathematics, science,
and competence in the search for information. Although this study is dated, there is
plenty of anecdotal evidence that a wide range of critics (especially academics,
researchers and employers) view the academic achievement of secondary school students
as unsatisfactory. This is particularly true of quantitative and communications skills. The
1983 study found that the main determinants of low quality in Thai secondary schools
were: (a) the lack of qualified teachers; (b) weak curriculum; (c) inadequate supply of
textbooks and other educational materials; and (d) the poor state of the infrastructure
(buildings and laboratories). If as seems probable, there has been little improvement in
student achievement over the past decade, these determinants of low quality still prevail
and they provide a sure guide to the Government in identifying areas for quality
improvement.
1.18         The problems facing mathematics and science teaching in Thailand are
common to many countries. The low level of student achievement in these subjects in the
secondary schools is attributable to weaknesses in the primary schools. In particular,
primary school teachers are generalists and are said to be less comfortable teaching these
subjects. Thus the lack of a firm foundation in science and math is carried upward into
the secondary schools.  Attention clearly needs to be given to strengthening the
foundations of science and math in the primary grades but similar emphasis should also
be given to quality improvement in the secondary cycle.  It has been reported that in
Thailand, poor teaching of science and math and the perceived difficulty of the subjects
themselves, make them unappealing to students.  However, this is not borne out by
enrollment statistics.  In 1994, 57% of upper secondary students were enrolled in the
4At the lower secondary level, students may take up to 10 credits in work experience and vocational
subjects during the first two years and 12 credits during the third year. At the upper-secondary level, up to
52 credits in these subjects from the total credit requirement of 75 are permitted.
S "Efficiency of Secondary Education", National Education Commission, 1983.



- 7 -
science/math elective and slightly more than half of these were girls. The satisfactory
enrollment level for girls may be the result, in part at least, of the relatively high
proportion of female science/math teachers which represent 55% of the total teachers in
these subjects.
Access and Equity
1.19        In 1994, total secondary enrollment was about 3,430,000 (Annex 1, Chart
3). The vocational colleges accounted for about 45 of total upper secondary enrollment
(Chart 4). About 26% of those graduating from these colleges at the certificate level join
the labor force. In the "comprehensive" secondary schools,6 about 19% of the graduates
enter the labor market. Thus the majority of graduates proceed to further education.
During the 1980s, lack of development in secondary education resulted in a stagnant
gross enrollment ratio of around 30%. This was the lowest among ASEAN countries
and represented only about half of Korea's rate, when the per capita GDP in Korea was at
Thailand's current level. Lack of investment in secondary education led to an under-
educated workforce such that by 1990, 83% of workers had finished only primary
education or less. This problem has been recognized by the Government and appropriate
policies are being implemented (Annex 2). Compulsory education is being extended
from six to nine years to cover the lower secondary cycle. The transition rate from
primary to secondary, which was 86% in 1994, is planned to reach 100% by 1997. This
represents remarkable progress since the transition rate was only 52% in 1990. This has
been achieved through accelerated investment in school facilities, including the
conversion of excess primary school capacity which has become available due to
declining primary enrollments (following birth rate reductions). Under this program,
about 4,300 primary schools will be expanded to teach the lower secondary grades 7-9.
Capacity expansion has been accompanied by expanded inservice teacher training
programs which include a three-year program to upgrade 45,000 primary teachers to
lower secondary status. The result has been a substantial increase in the gross enrollment
ratio in the secondary schools, which had reached 47% by 1992.
1.20.        Secondary education in Thailand suffers from disparities in access that
are common to many countries. Parents' occupational status, which strongly reflects
educational level, is a major determinant of enrollment in secondary education. In 1985
for example, nearly 96% of the secondary-age children of professionals were enrolled
compared with less than 15% of the children of farmers.7 Marked regional disparities in
access were also evident. The transition rate from primary to secondary in 1985 was
about 37% for Thailand as a whole but for the Bangkok metropolitan region it was nearly
99%. Only 2 (out of 12) non-metropolitan regions had rates above 60%.  Although
recent data on transition rates by region are not available, it is clear that given the rapidly
6 These schools were academically-oriented prior to 1978. They are now more vocationalized to improve
the employment opportunities of graduates.
7 "Educational Options for the Future of Thailand", TDRI, December, 1991.



- 8 -
expanding transition rate for the country as a whole (para. 1.19), disparities in access to
secondary education are rapidly diminishing.
1.21        The Government is concerned about the equity issue not merely from the
educational perspective but also for the longer term contribution that expanded secondary
enrollments will make to improving income distribution. Plans to expand access through
classroom construction and accelerated teacher training will benefit mainly families in
rural areas since enrollment rates are already high in Bangkok.   But 77% of the
population in Thailand is rural and the direct and opportunity costs of secondary
schooling are a substantial burden on many families. Thus the Government's expansion
plans for secondary education include subsidies to reduce the direct costs of schooling,
which cover textbooks, school uniforms and dormitories. To provide further financial
assistance, the Government has recently introduced a B 10 billion loan program for lower
income families. The interest rate is 3% and repayments will be made through an
additional income tax which is deferred until the borrower has obtained employment.
The expansion of enrollments in rural schools would also be pursued through greater
flexibility in class schedules and curriculum in order to fit schooling more closely to the
rural environment.
Teachers
1.22        Availability.  In 1994 there were 108,130 teachers (56% female) in the
public secondary schools of whom 5.3% held a master's degree or higher and 88.2% had
a bachelor's degree.  The overall student/staff ratio in secondary education, which is
relatively generous by Asian standards, is increasing steadily as a result of the rapid
expansion in secondary enrollments in recent years - from 17:1 in 1990 to 21:1 in 1994.
This trend is likely to continue as enrollment increases outstrip teacher recruitment levels.
In 1994, employment of secondary teachers increased by nearly 4% while enrollments
expanded by around 11 %. The problem is more acute in the critical subjects of science,
math and English where the stock of teachers is increasing at about 4% and enrollments
at 14% per year.  In 1993, the entire RI system produced only 240 graduate science
teachers and 478 math teachers.   While additional graduates are supplied by the
university faculties of education, this would not have much impact on the teacher
shortage which has been estimated by DGE and ONPEC to be 7,160 in mathematics and
5,230 in science.
1.23        Teacher Training in the Rajabhat Institutes.   Teacher training is
offered at the bachelor's degree, associate degree and diploma levels in the 36 Rajabhat
Institutes.   Secondary teachers require the four-year bachelor's degree to secure a
teaching post. In recent years, the RIs have begun to diversify their programs in order to
increase regional access to higher education. In addition to teacher education, a range of
vocationally-oriented programs, such as applied science and technology, management,
social development, agriculture, arts and journalism, is now offered. In 1994, the RIs had
total enrollments of about 270,000, of which 121,500 (45%) were in education. The RIs



- 9 -
are under the control of the Rajabhat Institutes Council (RIC) which is responsible for
overall policy, planning, budgeting, academic standards, etc. The Office of the RIC is
responsible for the administration of the system.  Each RI has a rector, a Governing
Committee and an Academic Council to handle academic affairs. For the purposes of
student selection and admissions, the 36 RIs are grouped into 8 United Colleges which
provide a regional focus aimed at encouraging graduates to pursue careers in their home
provinces. The RIs retain strong community orientation as reflected in their objectives
which, in addition to training and retraining teachers, cover the provision of educational
services to local areas, research and technical services, and technology development and
transfer.
1.24        Although the RI's have evolved from teachers colleges into broader-based
community colleges, education programs still represent the core activity. For secondary
teachers, the B.Ed. degree is the basic qualification. This requires completing at least
130 credit hours in three broad areas: compulsory general education (40 credit hours)
which includes courses in mathematics, science and English; a major subject (80 credit
hours or more); and an elective (10 credit hours). This structure seems to be sufficient for
the preparation of secondary school teachers in general, but it may not address adequately
the problem of increasing shortages of math and science teachers. A trainee teacher
taking these subjects as a major would complete at least 80 credit hours in addition to
basic courses in the subjects taken as part of the compulsory program. This appears to be
adequate preparation, at least in quantitative terms. But there remains the need to develop
appropriate incentives to encourage more students to study these difficult but crucial
subjects in the schools and then to encourage them to train as math, science and language
teachers. This problem is reflected in the first choice of applicants for admission to the
Mls in 1995 - a little less than 20% of applicants selected math or science (physics,
chemistry and biology). Some attention is being given to these issues (para. 1.27).
1.25        The quality of teacher preparation is also an issue within the RIs. While
standards vary significantly among the RMs, there is an urgent need to upgrade their
academic and physical endowments. Staff qualifications are inadequate with only 4% of
academic staff having doctorates and a further 30% having masters. Many of these
degrees are outdated and, therefore, upgrading of college staff is vital to quality
improvement. The increasing role of the RMs in the provision of research and educational
services to the community, will also require greater numbers of academic staff with
graduate degrees.  Science laboratories and workshops have suffered from a lack of
investment in facilities in recent years.  Laboratory space needs to be expanded and
workshops renovated in a number of RIs.   Equipment provision also needs to be
expanded and modernized.   A combination of investments in staff upgrading and
physical improvements would provide a basic quality-enhancing package for the RMs.
While aimed at raising the quality of preservice teacher trainees, the measures would also
strengthen the inservice training of serving teachers. The RMs have an important role to
play in the provision of inservice training and this includes training for about 4,700
science and math teachers per year.



- 10-
Government's Policies and Plans
1.26         The Government is giving a high priority to the expansion of secondary
education in response to its relative neglect in the past and this is reflected in substantial
recent increases in the budget for DGE, which averaged 22% p.a. during 1990-94. This
priority also reflects recognition of the crucial role secondary education plays in
improving the quality of the workforce and in providing the basis for an expansion of
higher education.  As noted above, policies are being implemented for the rapid
expansion of lower secondary education (para. 1.19), which will lead in due course to
similar growth in the upper secondary cycle. However, rapidly expanding enrollments
usually face the problem of maintaining quality. Here, the Government is pursuing a
range of actions. There is a clear recognition that the key to quality lies in the preparation
of well-trained teachers. Thus the teacher college system is being upgraded through
raising the qualifications of academic staff, strengthening curricula and upgrading
laboratories, workshops and libraries. This program is underway in 19 RI campuses and
the proposed project is supporting it in the remaining 17 campuses.  Inservice teacher
training is also being expanded and improved to raise the competencies of serving
teachers whose qualifications need updating. To complement the perfornance of better-
trained teachers, attention is being given to ensuring that teaching facilities are well-
equipped and there are adequate supplies of learning materials available.  Ongoing
efforts to review curricula are being reinforced by the authorization of private publishers
to produce textbooks thus expanding the variety of materials available in the classroom.
1.27      The second major priority is the strengthening of education in math, science
and English. These are regarded as key subjects within the education system which aims
to create a scientifically literate population to serve as the basis for Thailand to develop
into a technologically-advanced industrial country. The quality of education in these
subjects is low due to the lack of qualified teachers and poorly equipped facilities. The
Government is attempting to address these issues along the lines noted in the previous
paragraph. In addition, a provincial network of specialized science (including math) and
English language centers is being established to provide high-quality education in these
subjects to selected students. Special scholarships will also be available in each center
for students showing particular merit. However, there remain two major issues. First,
there is the need to encourage more students to study these difficult subjects. Interest in
science, math and foreign languages must be inculcated in students in the primary schools
and appropriate measures taken to retain their interest in the higher grades and ultimately
to encourage sufficient numbers to enter teaching.  In 1994, a special program was
inaugurated in DGE which provided funds (US$0.8 million) to promote science and math
in the schools. Second, there is the need for the Government to develop measures to
retain the services of teachers whose expertise is in great demand in the rapidly growing
private sector and at salaries substantially above Government rates. Much more needs to
be done to address this problem.



- 11 -
II. THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. Bank's Experience in Education
2.1          The Bank has assisted the development of Thailand's education system
under six loans/credits during the period 1966-82. Bank lending amounted to US$154
million or about 35% of total project costs of US$453 million. The overall direction of
Bank lending under the six projects was consistent with education policy as it evolved
under the first five national plans (1962-86). The first two projects focused on increasing
the supply of technical manpower for industry and agriculture. Later projects had a
broader educational focus and were consistent with the major educational reforms,
introduced in 1978, which aimed at equality of educational opportunity, curriculum
reform and improved management of the education system. Consequently, the later
projects focused on the expansion of educational capacity in the rural areas, the
introduction of diversified secondary curricula and the strengthening of education
management.8
2.2          The first education project in Thailand (Ln. 471-TH) supported quality
improvement and expansion of outputs in selected vocational institutions. The project
financed construction, renovation and equipment for 24 trade, industrial and agricultural
schools and an agricultural teacher training college. The project also included technical
assistance for curriculum development and for upgrading teacher training. The PPAR for
the project (Report No. 770, June 13, 1975) concluded that the project was implemented
successfully. In general, overall enrollment and output targets were met and new well-
balanced curricula were introduced. The technical assistance program was completed
successfully and this was due, in part, to close cooperation between overseas advisers and
local counterparts. Equipment procurement was delayed initially due to the late arrival of
advisers and this delay was exacerbated by cumbersome procurement procedures. These
problems were largely responsible for the project being completed four years behind
schedule. Some items of equipment were judged to be too sophisticated for the schools
and, in the case of some agricultural equipment, not relevant to local conditions. Some
difficulty was experienced in retaining teachers with practical industry-related experience
because of the demand for such skills in the labor market.
2.3          The second education project (Ln. 822-TH) assisted in upgrading
education and research in agriculture and related fields in Kasetsart (Agricultural)
University and also assisted its move to a new rural campus. The project financed site
development, construction, furniture and equipment, and technical assistance for
curriculum development, university management and project unit support. The PPAR for
the project (Report No. 4563, June 17, 1983) concluded that the major objectives of the
project were achieved although project completion was nearly three years behind
' For a detailed review of Bank assistance to Thailand under the six projects, see: ducational
Development in Thailand: The Role of World Bank Lending, (Report No. 7306, June 24, 1988).



- 12 -
schedule. The latter was caused partly by an unrealistic implementation schedule and also
by design and construction delays in the civil works component. Targets for new student
places were met. Equipment procurement was fully satisfactory and the technical
assistance program was also implemented effectively. Regarding the latter, there was
close cooperation between advisers and local counterparts. The fellowship program
resulted in a substantial increase in faculty with graduate degrees. One weakness in
project implementation was that insufficient attention was paid to educational aspects of
the project institution such as changes in admissions, enrollments, graduates and the
employment experience of the latter. Thus there was only limited understanding of the
educational impact of the project.
2.4         The third education project (Cr. 369-TH) marked a shift in emphasis away
from the narrower focus of meeting technical manpower requirements towards improving
educational opportunities, especially in the provinces. The third project aimed to extend
and improve elementary teacher training facilities in the provinces, introduce a diversified
curriculum in rural secondary schools, improve educational research and curriculum
design and extend science programs and assist long range planning in the Prince of
Songkla University in the south of Thailand. The project financed construction, furniture
and equipment for selected primary teachers' training colleges, rural high schools, a
National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC) and the Prince of Songkla University.
Expert services and fellowships were included under the project's technical assistance
program. The PPAR for the project (Report No. 4574, June 27, 1983), concluded that the
project's objectives were met, with the exception of the teacher training component. The
diversified curricula for the rural secondary schools were introduced successfully, the
NCDC was operating effectively (although it could benefit from a sharpening of the focus
of its research function), the university science programs were improved and their
quantitative targets virtually achieved. Expansion of rural teacher training opportunities
was achieved but not to the extent envisaged.  Initially, there was a substantial
underestimation in teacher supply and the Government reduced teachers' college intakes
because of the emerging over-supply. Thus project-assisted colleges were underutilized.
This situation was identified soon after appraisal and project design should have been
rectified accordingly. The technical assistance program was generally successful but
there was a need to monitor fellows on their return to ensure that they entered positions
relevant to their training. There was also a need to observe a realistic mix between short
study tours and long-term study for higher degrees. The latter may not always be the
most appropriate method of acquiring skills in certain fields (e.g. curriculum
development). The project closed 3.5 years behind schedule, due in part to problems in
the functioning of the project implementation unit, which lacked clearly-defined
jurisdiction and authority.
2.5         The fourth education project (Ln. 1271-TH) continued support for the
expansion of diversified secondary education in the provinces and assisted in the
establishment of a national adult education system. The project financed construction,
furniture, equipment and technical assistance for 50 diversified secondary schools and for
four regional and 24 provincial adult education centers. The project completion report



- 13 -
(PCR) for the project (Report No. 5710, June 14, 1985) concluded that the project was a
success with quantitative targets reached or surpassed. Project implementation was
facilitated by the establishment of a well-staffed Central Project Unit (CPU), which was
given the authority to simplify procurement procedures.  The technical assistance
program was implemented successfully and the individuals who received degree
fellowships were, in the majority of cases, serving in relevant posts. Some difficulties
were experienced in the preparation of equipment lists and specifications for the adult
education component due to a lack of expertise in this area. The project was completed
just over two years behind schedule due partly to scarcity of counterpart funds and
shortage of experienced implementation staff in adult education.
2.6         The fifth education project (Cr. 913-TH) continued support for expanding
educational opportunities in rural areas and for strengthening management of the
education system and public administration in general. The project provided for the
establishment of 12 centralized vocational workshops to serve local secondary schools,
the upgrading of vocational programs in 42 rural secondary schools, expansion of
educational radio programs and the creation of inservice management training institutes
for educational administrators and civil servants. The project was implemented
successfully and closed on schedule. The PPAR for the project (Report No. 7284, June
17, 1988) concluded that a strong CPU served successfully as a coordinator and resource
center for the individual implementing agencies. In general the quantitative targets of the
project were met. However, lack of thorough analysis of the catchment areas for the
centralized vocational workshops led to underutilization of some centers. The overseas
fellowship program was generally successful but there were some initial problems with
the language competence of fellows and some instances of fellows not being retained in
the positions for which they had been trained.
2.7          The sixth education project (Ln. 2178-TH) aimed to extend support for
increasing educational opportunities in disadvantaged areas to the lower secondary level
and to strengthen education planning and management.  The project financed the
upgrading of 480 rural lower secondary schools through the addition of classrooms and
workshops and the inservice training of about 6,000 teaching and non-teaching staff.
Technical assistance was provided for fellowships and experts in t&Fe fields of education
planning and management. A program of eight studies covering key educational issues
was also included in the project. The project was completed on schedule but over-
estimation of project costs led to the cancellation of about 42% of the loan amount. The
PCR for the project (Report No. 8363, February 12, 1990) concluded that while the
physical aspects of the project were implemented successfully, educational objectives
were not fully achieved. Enrollments in project schools at project completion were 34%
below target due to overly optimistic enrollment projections at appraisal and to other
factors such as high tuition and opportunity costs for students. Transition rates to lower
secondary education also declined. The local inservice training program was generally
successful but there were problems in the overseas fellowship component regarding
deficient language competencies and inadequate academic standards for entry to overseas
institutions. The planning and management component was the least successful because



- 14-
it required significant organizational and policy changes which could not be achieved
within the scope of a single project but required a sustained high-level policy dialogue
between the Bank and Government. The program of studies would have benefited from a
synthesis of their findings and the translation of these into an action plan.
B. Lessons Learned
2.8       Some of the lessons drawn from experience under previous education projects
in Thailand, although implemented mainly in the seventies and early eighties, are still
relevant to the proposed project.  For example, overseas study programs need to be
carefully planned especially in relation to the language capabilities of candidates and their
ability to gain entry to overseas institutions. Careful consideration should also be given to
the mix of formal degree study and short training programs in relation to the needs for skill
acquisition. Higher degrees may not necessarily lead to the acquisition of the required skills
and short training courses may be more appropriate.  A well-staffed central project
implementation unit with appropriate links to participating institutions is essential to ensure
successful project implementation. Relevant lessons drawn from Bankwide experience
include the need for: (a) counterparts to work with expert advisers to ensure that local staff
gain from inservice training opportunities; (b) adequate O&M funding for equipment to
ensure its effective utilization; (c) special attention to project management and
implementation arrangements for inexperienced borrowers; and (d) intensive Bank
supervision in the early stages of implementation and a proper balance of skills on
supervision missions. The above lessons have been incorporated in project design.
C. Bank's Assistance Strategy
2.9        The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Thailand (Report No.
13458-TH), which was presented to the Board on September 22, 1994, recognizes that
Thailand needs selective policy and technical advice and financing.  Hence, Bank
assistance aims at providing value added in terms of helping to address the most
important development issues, many of which are cross-sectoral and involve the
provision of public goods. These key development priorities, on which Bank assistance
would be focused, are: physical infrastructure provision, human resource development,
poverty reduction and improvement in income distribution, and natural resource and
environmental management. The CAS envisaged a lending program of around US$300
million per year during FY96-98 in these priority areas. It was also indicated in the CAS
that strong interest on the part of the Government in priority areas such as the social
sectors could lead to increased lending. With respect to education, this interest has been
declared by the Government through communications with the Bank, in public
pronouncements and through the high priority being given to education in the Eighth
Plan. Consequently, a number of projects were identified which focused on sector
priorities in education.



- 15-
2.10         The proposed project would assist in human resource development.
Thailand's economic success has been built on the expansion of manufactured exports,
facilitated by substantial foreign direct investment. This export-led growth strategy is
now under pressure due to rising real wages, and skill shortages, coupled with economic
liberalization in labor-abundant economies such as China, Vietnam and India. A key
determinant of Thailand's continued economic success, therefore, will be its ability to
upgrade products and processes towards greater technological sophistication. Whether
this can be achieved quickly depends critically upon the availability of skilled and
educated labor. However, past under-investment in secondary, higher and technical
education, together with sectoral policy and institutional weaknesses, have meant that
labor quality constraints have become increasingly serious.
Education Lending Strategy
2.11        In recent years, post-primary education in Thailand has been unable to
meet the demands of a rapidly expanding economy for technical skills and for workers
with a sound general education. This has retarded productivity growth while skill
shortages have pushed up wages thereby putting pressure on the country's
competitiveness. The Government has responded with policies that call for the expansion
of technical and scientific education to increase the supply of skills at all levels and also
for the expansion of general secondary education to increase the education level of
entrants to the workforce and to expand the numbers of potential entrants to higher
education.  A key concern underlying this expansion is the need to maintain (and
preferably improve) the quality of education in the face of rapidly expanding enrollments.
2.12        The Bank made its last loan for education to Thailand in 1982 in support
of developing lower secondary education (para. 2.7).  This was followed by a
Government policy of not seeking Bank financing in the social sectors. In 1990-91 the
Bank prepared an in-depth review of vocational education and a review of key issues in
education.  These reviews were well-received in Thailand but did not lead to any
discernible action to implement the policy recommendations contained therein. The
Bank was in no position to push a policy agenda at that time because it lacked the
leverage of a lending program in education. However in 1993, recognizing the growing
inadequacies in the education system, the Government asked the Bank to look at the
possibilities of restarting lending to education.
2.13        The education lending strategy is based on the assumption that if the Bank
is to make a meaningful impact on sector development, the Bank must be engaged for
the long term. In line with the CAS, this means that the Bank must be in a position to
offer policy advice and, to be realistic, it should be combined with lending operations if
the Bank is to have a significant impact on policy improvements. Our lending strategy
would follow three stages. The first stage would cover the design of initial lending
operations and would constitute the Bank's re-entry into the sector. Initial lending would
assist in raising the quality of technical and scientific education in technical institutions
and public universities and in supporting the expansion of secondary education in three



- 16 -
strategic subjects - science, mathematics and English. Such assistance would contribute
to the production of better-trained skilled workers, technicians, engineers and scientists,
and better-educated outputs from the secondary schools. This would address directly one
of the critical development problems in Thailand, namely, the severe shortages of
technically skilled and educated manpower. Thus proposed initial Bank assistance is
fully consistent with Thailand's development priorities and with the Bank's assistance
strategy. The strategic thrust outlined above has been refined into five proposed projects -
Universities Science and Engineering Education, Secondary Education Quality
Improvement (SEQI) I and II, Technical Education and Vocational Training.9  The main
focus in the projects is on quality improvement through staff development, modernization
of laboratories and workshops, curricular upgrading and improved learning materials.
2.14          The second stage calls for the preparation of a policy-oriented sector study
to be completed by the Bank in FY97. A number of sound education policies relating to
system expansion and quality improvement are currently being implemented and the five
proposed projects would support these policies.   These ongoing policies provide an
adequate framework for the effective implementation of the projects and for the
sustainability of their outcomes. With respect to secondary education, current policies
(paras.1.26-1.27) call for the expansion of lower secondary education accompanied by
quality improvement through strengthening teacher education and upgrading teaching
facilities. Special emphasis is being given to improving the quality of teaching in science
and mathematics.  The design of the proposed project (paras. 3.5-3.13) is clearly
consistent with these policies.
2.15          However, in addition to current policies which are pursuing expansion and
quality improvement, there are a number of more complex policy issues which,
administratively and politically, are proving difficult to resolve. This difficulty is
reflected in the fact that the issues are well-known and regularly debated, but reaching a
consensus aimed at their resolution has eluded policy-makers to date.   The issues
include: (a) the future role of the RIs as they expand into more general four-year colleges
providing a range of degree programs. This raises a number of issues relating to control
and regulation, financing, accreditation, status of academic staff, etc.; (b) as the RIs
evolve, there will be a need to safeguard the integrity of the teacher education programs
in the face of competition from other disciplines. This implies the need for a strategy to
ensure, over the long term, an adequate supply of well-trained secondary teachers; (c)
incentives to attract and maintain science and math teachers; and (d) a strategy to
strengthen interest in science and math in the schools, especially for girls, and to maintain
this interest in higher education to support the expansion of programs in science and
engineering. The proposed sector study would analyze these issues (and others to be
9Three projects were originally identified. However, certain components in the SEQI Project and the VTE
Project were ready for appraisal ahead of other components of the projects. Thus teacher education was
appraised as SEQI I with the schools component becoming SEQI 11. The higher-level technical education
component in the VTE Project became the Technical Education Project while the basic skill training
component became the Vocational Training Project.



- 17-
identified) and propose appropriate solutions.  Terms of reference for the study were
prepared during appraisal and were agreed with the Government during negotiations.'0
2.16         The sector review would form the basis of a policy dialogue with the
Government, which would be monitored during implementation of the ongoing projects.
Recommendations aimed at addressing major problems would be defined and set out in
an education sector strategy. This strategy would be prepared by the Government and
would guide future improvements in education. It would also serve to guide the policy
content of future projects. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the
education sector strategy would be available for review by the Bank by March 1997 and
that progress in the implementation of the strategy would be reviewed in conjunction with
the Bank by March 1999.  Thus, the third stage of Bank lending would encompass
follow-up projects which would include policy content drawn from the Government's
sector strategy. It is expected that follow-up projects would continue to support quality
improvement in science and technical education. The unmet needs are substantial and
continued concentration of effort by the Bank would ensure that a meaningful impact
would be made in these areas.  Project design would emphasize monitoring and
evaluation of policy improvements.
2.17         The Bank's strategy aims for long-term involvement in the education
sector. Through continued policy dialogue and carefully targeted lending operations, the
Government and the Bank would work towards a cost-effective, well-managed education
system which would meet the skill needs of an expanding economy and service the
broader needs of a rapidly modernizing society. The initial projects would provide a way
for the Bank to re-enter the education sector and to address quickly some obvious needs
for quality improvement within the context of the existing policy framework.  This
would be accompanied by a policy dialogue, based on sector work, which would analyze
major problems and propose solutions.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
3.1          The Government requested the Bank in late 1993 to examine the
possibility of project assistance to education. In conjunction with the Government, the
Bank identified a project which would assist in strengthening teacher education in science
and mathematics and raise the quality of science, math and English education in the
secondary schools.  Most of the preparation work was completed by the Government
' The sector study will: (a) define the broad objectives of the education system; (b) review education
policies and assess their effectiveness in achieving sector objectives; (c) identify policy problems which are
not currently being resolved; (d) analyze the reasons (administrative, political, socio-economic, cultural)
for the lack of resolution; (e) make policy recommendations for major improvements in the education
system; and (f) formulate a strategy for implementing these recommendations.



- 18 -
according to guidelines formulated by the Bank.  Preparation of the teacher education
component proceeded at a faster pace that the schools component and, in view of this, it
was decided to appraise teacher education as a separate project (para. 2.13). The project
was appraised in May 1995. Project processing was delayed following elections in July
1995 and the installation of a new Government.
B. Project Background and Rationale
3.2           The education sector in Thailand is relatively well-endowed with resources,
education expenditures accounting for about 3.6% of GNP compared with the average for
East Asia of around 3%. Thus the Government has requested the Bank's assistance not
primarily for the resource transfer itself, but to ensure that priority needs are addressed
through the efficient targeting of resources and that value added is provided through project
assistance. The proposed project is a response to the request for assistance. The relatively
underdeveloped state of secondary education in Thailand has resulted in an undereducated
workforce. This has reduced the trainability of workers and retarded productivity growth.
These issues have been analyzed in Bank sector studies."1 Recognizing the problem, the
Government is responding with plans for the expansion and quality improvement of
secondary education. These plans include increasing access through the introduction of
lower secondary education in selected primary schools (para. 1.19), quality improvement
through upgrading teacher training and providing well-equipped teaching facilities, (para.
1.26) and a strong focus on improving math, science and English curricula as subjects
which are of strategic importance to Thailand's future (para. 1.27). The proposed project,
whose design draws on previous sector analyses, provides the opportunity for the Bank to
support the Government's plans. This would be achieved through direct investments to
assist in strengthening teacher education in science and mathematics. Such strengthening
is an important part of the Government's plans for sustaining the quality of education in the
face of rapid enrollment expansion (para. 1.26). In the long term, the project would help to
provide better-educated secondary graduates for direct employment in the labor market and
for entry into higher education. This would have a positive effect on labor productivity and
help to raise the quality of higher education thereby strengthening Thailand's long-term
competitiveness in an increasingly technology-intensive industrial environment.
3.3          The project is consistent with the Government's priority for expanding
secondary education with special emphasis on the development of science, math and
foreign language skills.  It is also consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy
(paras. 2.9-2.10) which identifies human resource development as one of the key priorities.
Regarding the latter, the CAS emphasizes the vital need to develop technical skills if export
competitiveness and long-term growth are to be sustained. Such skills are built on a sound
H The Contribution of Secondary Education to Growth and Development in Japan, South Korea, Malaysia,
Thailand and Indonesia. Education and Social Policy Secondary Education Work Program Background
Paper. 1994; Decision and Change in Thailand: Thailand's Education Sector at a Crossroads: Selected Issues.
July 1991; Vocational Training in a Changing Economy: The Case of Thailand. 1991. PHREE Background
Paper Series No. PHREE/91/33.



- 19 -
secondary education especially in science and mathematics. The project is consistent with
the Bank's education lending strategy in Thailand (paras. 2.11-2.17). This calls for the
rapid development of initial lending operations to make an early contribution in the crucial
area of quality improvement while leaving major policy changes to be identified in policy-
oriented sector work (scheduled for completion in FY97) and incorporated by the
Government in an education sector strategy (para. 2.16). This strategy would guide future
improvements in education and also serve as a guide to the policy content of future projects.
The value-added embodied in the proposed project lies, in part, in its addressing immediate
investment needs in secondary science and math education thereby helping to alleviate the
backlog of investments in quality improvement. There is also value added in the Bank,
working in partnership with MOE, applying its rigorous project preparation techniques to
identifying quality-improving investments and in packaging them into a coherent project
design, which can be implemented efficiently. Finally, value would be added through the
Bank's assistance in identifying needed policy changes and in supporting their
implementation.
C. Project Objectives
3.4        The overall objective of the proposed project would be to assist in raising the
quality of secondary education in science and mathematics through strengthening teacher
education in these subjects.   Specifically, the project would aim to: (a) raise the
qualifications of teaching staff in selected Rajabhat Institutes (teacher colleges) and enhance
their understanding of modem teacher education techniques; (b) reinforce quality
improvement in the RIs through modernizing science laboratories and workshops with up-
to-date equipment, expanding laboratory space and refurbishing workshops; (c) expand the
capacity of the RIs to carry out inservice training of secondary teachers; and (d) enhance the
Rls capacity to undertake research and provide technical services to the community.
D. Project Description
3.5          The project would comprise: (a) civil works (estimated baseline cost,
US$26.5 million) to construct new science laboratories and to refurbish workshops; (b)
equipment (US$67.5 million) to modernize laboratories and workshops; (c) equipment-
related O&M expenditures (US$5.7 million); (d) an institutional development program
(US$21.0 million) consisting of fellowships and practical training for teaching staff, and
inservice training for secondary teachers; (e) a research and technical services program
(US$10.0 million) which would include research grants and consultants to assist in the
design of research projects and for new course development; and (e) assistance for project
management and for the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system (US$0.8
million).
Civil Works (US$26.5 million)
3.6          While the facilities of the 17 RIs are generally well-maintained, a
substantial proportion of laboratory facilities is obsolete and inadequate to house the new



- 20 -
equipment to be financed under the project. In the past, there has been insufficient capital
investment in facilities and, as a result, the level of lab provision is generally deficient.
In addition, facilities are needed to accommodate new programs being introduced in the
applied sciences and technology and to support the expansion of research activities. The
project would finance civil works for renovation and new construction at the 17 RIs.
Specifically, each institute would upgrade two computer laboratories, renovate or replace
workshops and construct a new four story science block. The civil works program has
been reviewed and found to be satisfactory. Standard designs and specifications for the
new science blocks are available and these replicate the buildings already constructed for
13 non-project RIs. All new facilities would be constructed on existing campuses and no
land acquisition or resettlement would be required.  The 17 project institutions are
located in provinces outside the Bangkok metropolitan region.
Equipment (US$67.5 million)
3.7         The lack of up-to-date equipment is widespread in science laboratories and
this is lowering the quality of courses offered. The project would upgrade science
equipment in all 17 RIs. The enhanced laboratories would provide a more effective
teaching environment and complement the advanced degrees obtained by academic staff
under the project.  The equipment would be focused on the core areas of teaching in
physics, chemistry and biology and also address the needs of recently-introduced courses
such as environmental science and biotechnology. Specific items of equipment would be
procured to service the expanding research activities of the RIs. Equipment, including
computers, would be financed to strengthen the teaching of mathematics. Some
adjustments would be made to the equipment lists during project implementation in line
with consultants' recommendations for new course development (para. 3.1 1). Equipment
lists and specifications would be finalized and equipment packaged for procurement
under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures with the assistance of a
procurement specialist.
Equipment-related O&M (US$5.7 million)
3.8          Equipment-related O&M expenditures would be financed under the project
to ensure that the equipment items would receive adequate supplies of consumable
materials to enhance their effective operation in the laboratories.    Maintenance
expenditures and the supply of spare parts would also be financed to keep the equipment in
sound working order.
Institutional Development ( US$21.0 million)
3.9         To ensure that both pre-service and inservice training for science and math
teachers is effectively carried out in the 17 project Rls, the teaching of these subjects at
RIs would be strengthened through raising the qualifications of academic staff. The
project would finance local and overseas fellowships for 150 masters and 125 Ph.D.
programs for RI staff (US$10.9 million).  Selection of fellows for training under the



- 21 -
project would be made in accordance with standard Civil Service Commission (CSC)
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. On return, fellows are bonded for a period
equal to twice the length of the fellowship. During negotiations, the Government agreed
that standard CSC procedures would be applied to the selection of fellows for local and
overseas training and that returning fellows would be subject to the appropriate bonding
.requirements.
3.10        Special in-country training would be designed by ORIC in the form of
courses and seminars of 5-15 days duration. These seminars would be organized on an
annual basis over five years and offered to 1,880 RI staff (US$1.6 million). An additional
group of 850 staff would be selected for short term training overseas (US$6.2 million) to
expose them to the latest teaching techniques and research topics. Training would be for
6-8 weeks and take place during the long vacation.  RI staff teaching mathematics,
science, biology, physics, chemistry and computer science would also be required to
spend at least ten working days per year visiting secondary schools and advising teachers
on the usage of modern scientific equipment and teaching methods (US$0.8 million). In
order to upgrade the competency of existing science and math teachers, each RI would
be responsible for training 280 teachers each year over a period of four years, bringing
the total number of science and math teachers trained to 19,040 (US$1.6 million). The
staff development plan has been reviewed and found to be satisfactory. It is summarized
in Annex 3.
Research and Technical Service Projects (US$10.0 million)
3.11        With modem facilities, better qualified staff and equipment financed by
the project, the RIs would have much stronger scientific research capabilities.  This
would permit the RIs to strengthen their teaching programs and make an enhanced
contribution to assisting local industry and the community. This is in line with the policy
of diversifying the range of RI activities (para. 1.23).  The project would finance 170
research projects in the areas of science and math education, industrial technology, health,
environment and agriculture. Another group of 270 projects in similar fields would be
financed to improve the capacity of RIs to provide local technical advisory services. The
Academic Council of the participating RIs, assisted by an expert committee, would be
responsible for the review, approval, financing and monitoring of research projects. For
technical services projects, similar functions would be carried out by the Governing
Committee, assisted by experts as appropriate. The results of all projects would be
widely disseminated throughout the community.  The project would finance research
grants to fund the direct costs of the projects, and consultants (77 staffmonths) to advise
on prioritizing research topics, research design, training in research methodologies and
experimental approaches, appropriate equipment, etc. The consultants would also review
existing RI curricula in science and technology and recommend appropriate changes to
the RIC, and advise on the development of new programs relevant to local needs.
Generic terms of reference for the consultants have been prepared.



- 22 -
Project Management (US$0.5 million)
3.12        The project would finance facilities (office refurbishment, computers,
office machines) for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the ORIC and for the
Secretariat of the Project Steering Committee in MOE. Two years of consultant services
to assist in project management and equipment procurement would also be included in
the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.4 million)
3.13        In order to effectively monitor implementation progress and evaluate
project outcomes, an appropriate system would be established in each RI and a central
M&E capability developed in the PIU. Two years of local consultant services would be
financed to provide technical assistance to set up the system.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
Summary of Costs
4.1         The total cost of the project is estimated at US$140.2 million equivalent
(B3,505.2 million), including contingencies. The estimated cost by category of
expenditures are summarized in Table 4.1. Detailed costs and project expenditures are
provided in Annex 4.
Basis of Cost Estimates
4.2         Base costs are estimated at April 1996 prices. The estimates for civil works
are in line with costs that were incurred, within Thailand, for similar types of construction
projects. Estimates for the cost of equipment are based on current prices for similar
imported or locally available items. Costs for local and international consultants are in line
with recent education and training projects for appropriately qualified experts. Unit costs for
local training range from about US$70 per trainee for short-term programs to about
US$7,000 per fellow for Ph.D programs. Overseas fellowships are estimated at about
US$33,000 per fellow for master's degree programs and about US$67,000 per fellow for
Ph.D. programs. Overseas training and study tours of various duration are estimated to
average around US$15,800 per participant.
4.3         Price contingencies of US$8.7 million (about 7% of baseline costs) were
calculated for both local and foreign costs in accordance with the following expected
annual average price increase percentages: foreign cost, 2.4% in FY96 and thereafter and
local cost, 4.5% p.a. throughout.



- 23 -
4.4            The foreign exchange component of US$96.2 million (representing 69%
of total project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the following foreign exchange
percentages: (a) equipment - 85%; (b) civil works - 40%; (c) in-country training and local
consultants - 30%; (d) foreign consultants and overseas training - 95%; (e) research grants
- 20%; and (f) technical service projects - 10%.
Table 4.1 Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
--- Baht million ---    --- US$ million ---
%Foreign % Total
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange Base Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                     396.8  264.6  661.4   15.9   10.6  26.5    40           20
B. Equipment                       253.1 1,434.2 1,687.3   10.1   57.4  67.5    85         51
C. Institutional Development
1. Training
In-country                      69.5   29.8   99.3    2.8    1.2   4.0    30           3
Overseas                         7.7  146.2  153.9   0.3    5.8   6.2    95             5
Subtotal Training                   77.2  175.9  253.1    3.1    7.0  10.1    70            8
2. Fellowships
In-Country MA                    5.0    2.2    7.2   0.2    0.1   0.3    30             -
In-Country PhD                   5.0    2.2    7.2   0.2    0.1   0.3    30             -
Overseas: MA                     5.3  100.3  105.6   0.2    4.0   4.2    95            3
Overseas: PhD                    7.7  145.4  153.0   0.3    5.8   6.1    95            5
Subtotal Fellowships                23.0  250.0  273.0   0.9   10.0  10.9   92              8
Subtotal Institutional Development  100.2  425.9  526.1    4.0   17.0  21.0   81           16
D. Research Projects
Research Grants                   82.2   20.6  102.8   3.3    0.8   4.1    20             3
Foreign Consultants                4.1   78.3   82.4   0.2    3.1   3.3   95              3
Local Consultants                 21.0    9.0   30.0   0.8    0.4   1.2   30              1
Subtotal Research Projects         107.3  107.8  215.2   4.3    4.3   8.6   50              7
E. Technical Service Projects       30.6    3.4   34.0    1.2    0.1   1.4   10             1
F. Monitoring and Evaluation         7.0    3.0   10.0   0.3    0.1   0.4   30              -
G. Project Management
Procurement/Management
Consultants                  0.2    3.9    4.1    0.0    0.2   0.2   95             -
Facilities                      1.5    6.0    7.5   0.1    0.2   0.3    80            -
Subtotal Project Management          1.7    9.9   11.6   0.1    0.4   0.5   85              -
Total Investment Costs             896.8 2,248.8 3,145.6  35.9   90.0  125.8   71          96
11. Recurrent Costs
Equipment O&M                   113.9   28.5  142.4   4.6    1.1   5.7   20              4
TotalRecurrentCosts                113.9   28.5  142.4   4.6    1.1   5.7   20              4
Total Baseline Costs             1,010.7 2,277.0 3,287.9  40.4   91.1  131.5   69          100
Price Contingencies                 90.4  126.9  217.2   3.6    5.1   8.7   58              7
Total Project Costs a/           1,101.1 2,404.1 3,505.2  44.0   96.2  140.2    68         107
a/ Excludes taxes estimated at US$5.0 million.



- 24 -
B. Financing
4.5          The proposed loan of US$81.9 million, to be disbursed over five and a half
years, would finance 58% of total project cost, net of taxes. The Government would be
responsible for the remaining 42% or US$58.3 million. The loan would be a fixed rate
single currency loan payable in 15 years with three years of grace and would carry the
Bank's standard US dollar fixed rate for 12 years maturity. The loan would finance 82% of
the total cost of fellowships, 84% for equipment, 70% for training, and 90% for consultants.
Table 4.2: Financing Plan
IBRD
--------------( US$ Million) --------------   Share
Category of Expenditure  Government      IBRD       Total   (%)
Civil Works                     27.5         -       27.5
Equipment                       11.7       60.4      72.1    84
Equipment O&M                    6.3         -        6.3     -
Training                         3.3        7.7      11.0    70
Fellowships                      2.1        9.3      11.4    82
Research Grants                  4.6         -        4.6     -
Technical Service Projects       1.5         -        1.5     -
Consultant Services              0.5        4.5       5.0    90
Project Management
Facilities and M& E            0.8         -       0.8     -
Total                           58.3       81.9     140.2    58
4.6          Wlen fully operational, the project would generate incremental recurrent
costs for equipment-related consumable materials and O&M estimated at about US$5
million p.a. This would be spread over 17 institutions thus averaging about US$0.29
million per institution. Tlhese additional expenditures could be accommodated by the
institutions without difficulty.
C. Project Management and Implementation
4.7           The overall responsibility for project management and implementation
would lie with MOE. A Project Steering Committee (PSC) would be established to provide
policy guidance and general oversight of the project and it would carry out similar functions
for all education projects financed by the Bank and other donors. A Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU) with a staff of six (including a project management adviser) would be
established and would be responsible for coordinating the implementation of education
projects financed by the Bank and other donors.  The PCU would also serve as the
secretariat of the PSC. Detailed implementation of the proposed project would be the
responsibility of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Office of the RIC. The
Director, Policy and Planning Division of the ORIC would be the Director of the PIU and a



- 25 -
Project Manager would be in charge of day-to-day implementation activities.  The PIU
would have a core staff of 15 drawn from ORIC's specialized divisions which would be
supplemented by other divisional staff, as necessary.  The staff of the PIU would be
organized into four functional units responsible respectively for procurement, general
administration/disbursements, training/fellowships and planning/monitoring/evaluation.
The establishment of the PCU and the PIU and their staffing with key personnel would be a
condition of effectiveness. The Project Manager would be assisted by a Project Operating
Committee (POC), chaired by the Secretary General of ORIC, which would bring together
representatives of key ORIC divisions and the participating RIs to provide advice and
assistance on operational issues. Membership and terms of reference for the PSC. PIU,
PCU and POC have been agreed and are presented in a Working Paper. An organization
chart for project management is given in Annex 5. The project implementation schedule is
given in Annex 6.
Status of Project Preparation
4.8         The advanced stage of project preparation would allow implementation to
commence immediately after loan signing. Project institutions have been identified and
equipment lists and specifications prepared. Project management authorities have been
identified and competent staff are available to handle implementation activities.
Implementation arrangements have been agreed.
D. Monitoring and Review
4.9         In view of MOEts lack of recent experience with Bank funded projects,
above-average supervision coefficients of about 15 staff weeks per year would be
required in the first 2-3 years of project implementation. The Bank would supervise the
project three times annually during the first 2-3 years of project implementation. It is
expected that the remaining years would require two missions each year with a third
being scheduled only if necessary. Supervision missions would also monitor progress in
preparing the education sector policy study (paras. 2.14-2.15) and the policy dialogue
between the Bank and the Government, which would follow from the sector study.
Overall implementation would be the responsibility of the task manager who would be
assisted by a project architect to handle civil works and procurement, and an operations
officer to oversee the implementation of the training and fellowship programs. Annex 7
presents the Bank's supervision plan for the project.
4.10        Key performance indicators have been developed and were agreed during
appraisal. The indicators (Annex 8) would be utilized to monitor project performance
and to gain some insight into project impact. During negotiations, the Government
agreed to integrate the indicators into the overall monitoring system and use them
systematically as part of project supervision. The indicators may be modified and
adjusted as implementation progresses. During negotiations, the Government also
provided assurances that, in conjunction with the Bank, it would undertake an annual
review of project progress on the basis of the agreed monitorable indicators. This review



- 26 -
would be documented in an annual progress report and would be provided to the Bank for
review and comments within 90 days following the end of each fiscal year. The third
annual review would include a detailed assessment of implementation experience to date
and discussions on the development of future projects.
E. Procurement 12
4.11         Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3. Civil works, to be
financed by the Government, would be procured through NCB procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Equipment would be grouped to the extent possible into bid packages to
facilitate bulk procurement. Equipment packages estimated to cost US$200,000 or more
(estimated value US$60.4 million) would be awarded on the basis of ICB. Procurement
of equipment under ICB will use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank. Equipment packages estimated to cost less than US$200,000 (estimated value
US$7.2 million) would be awarded on the basis of NCB using procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Up to an aggregate total of US$4.5 million, small items of equipment with an
estimated cost of less than US$50,000 per contract may be purchased through national
shopping,13 procedures allowing for the comparison of quotations from at least three
eligible suppliers. In comparison of bids for ICB, local manufacturers would be extended
a margin of domestic preference of 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the actual customs duties,
whichever is lower. Consultants to assist in developing the research program and for
project management would be selected in accordance with the provisions of the Bank's
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency". For complex, time-based assignments, contracts would be based
on the standard form of contract for consultant services issued by the Bank, with
necessary modifications agreed upon by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
would be used. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants", as mentioned above, prior Bank review would not be required for (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated
to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review would not apply to: (a) the terms of reference of such contracts; (b) single source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to US$100,000 equivalent or more; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to US$50,000 equivalent
or more.  Fellowships and candidates for overseas training would be selected in
accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Bank. The prior review threshold for
12 The Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", dated January 1995 and
revised in January 1996 will apply to all goods procured under this Project.
1 National shopping would be used only for the purchase of goods that are ordinarily available from more
than one source in the country of the Borrower at competitive prices. See Bank's "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", January 1995, revised January 1996, paras 3.5-3.6



- 27 -
equipment contracts financed by the Bank, is US$7.5 million, in line with the regional
guidelines for Thailand. No equipment contract is expected to exceed the threshold
amount, however the first three contracts of each year of project implementation would
be reviewed by the Bank. All remaining contracts would be subject to post review.
Supervision missions would conduct all post reviews. It is planned that about 25% of all
ICB contracts would be post reviewed.
Table 4.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
------------------------- US$million --------------------  Total
including
Category of Expenditure       ICB         NCB        Other /a     NBF   contingencies
Civil Works                    -            -           -         27.5        27.5
(0.0)       (0.0)
Equipment                     60.4         7.2         4.5         _          72.1
(60.4)       (0.0)       (0.0)                 (60.4)
Equipment O&M                  -            -           -         6.3         6.3
(0.0)      (0.0)
Training                       -            -          11.0        -          11.0
( 7.7)                (7.7)
Fellowships                    -            -          11.4        -          11.4
(9.3)                 (9.3)
Research Grants &              -            -           -         6.1         6.1
Tech. Service Projects                                          (0.0)       (0.0)
Consultant Services            -            -          5.0         -          5.0
(4.5)                 (4.5)
Project Management             -            -           -         0.8         0.8
Facilities and M&E                                              (0.0)       (0.0)
Total                         60.4          7.2        31.9       40.7       140.2
(60.4)       (0.0)      (21.5)      (0.0)      (81.9)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
NBF: Not Bank-financed.
a/    Includes national shopping, training, and consultants services using the Bank's "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants".



- 28 -
F. Disbursements
4.12        The proposed Bank loan of US$81.9 million would be disbursed on the
basis of:
Equipment         US$60.4    100% of foreign expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost); 65% of local expenditures for
other equipment items procured
locally.
Training          US$ 7.7      100% of foreign expenditures.
Fellowships       US$ 9.3      100% of foreign expenditures.
Consultant services  US$ 4.5   100% of foreign expenditures.
4.13        Disbursements in respect of contracts for equipment estimated to cost less
than US$7.5 million equivalent, and for expenditures on training, fellowships and
consultant services, would be made against statements of expenditure (SOE) certified by
the Ministry of Education. Documentation would be retained by MOE and available for
review by the Bank during supervision missions.  Administrative and accounting
capability in MOE is adequate to support the SOE procedure. Full documentation would
be required by the Bank for any contract above US$7.5 million equivalent. To the extent
practicable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of US$200,000 or
more prior to submission to the Bank for reimbursement out of the proceeds of the loan.
In view of the satisfactory budgetary procedures and financing of Bank-assisted projects
in Thailand, it was agreed to accept the Government's preference not to establish a special
account. The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of 5.5 years (Annex
9) which is one year less than the standard disbursement profile for Thailand (all sectors).
The shorter period is justified by the strong management and implementation capacity
built into the project and the Government's commitment to complete the project in five
years. The completion date of the project would be October 31, 2001 and the closing date
April 30, 2002.
G. Accounts, Audits and Reporting
4.14        The Government would cause the project institutions to maintain project
accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices.  During negotiations, the
Government would be asked to give assurances that audited accounts would be sent to the
Bank within six months of the end of the financial year. Audit reports would include a
separate opinion for expenditures under SOE procedures. The Government would cause
each project institution to submit an annual progress report to the Bank and to provide
implementation status reports for visiting missions. Within six months of the closing



- 29 -
date, an Implementation Completion Report would be prepared by the Bank in
cooperation with the Government.
H. Environmental Impact
4.15        The project would have no adverse impact on the environment.
Construction of new facilities would be confined to existing campuses and therefore
would not entail any new land acquisition.
I. Impact on Women
4.16        The project would help to raise the quality of teacher education which
would result in producing better-trained entrants to a teaching service which is nearly
60% female.
J. Project Sustainability
4.17       The Government has recognized the crucial social and economic importance
of expanding and improving the quality of secondary education especially in the strategic
fields of science and mathematics. There is also clear recognition that raising the quality of
teacher education in these subjects is essential to the achievement of this goal. The project
is therefore being designed within the context of strong Government commitment to its
objectives. Thus it is likely that the investments included under the project would be
implemented successfully and sustained in the longer term. Furthermore, the Government
has sought Bank assistance on its own initiative because it values the Bank's ability to
produce projects which are soundly designed and properly focused on sectoral needs. This
reinforces the view that the project would be efficiently implemented and its benefits
sustained in the long term. As noted previously (paras. 2.14-2.15), the present education
policy framework is adequate for the implementation of the proposed project, although
there are important longer-term policy problems to be addressed. However, these problems
would not adversely affect sustainability of the proposed project. They will be addressed in
a sector study and recommendations for their resolution will be implemented in conjunction
with future projects. The conclusions on sustainability are reinforced further by the high
priority being given to education in the Eighth Plan.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1         The project would raise the quality of teacher education in the RIs through
upgrading academic staff in science and mathematics. In the longer run, this would lead to
the supply of better-prepared science/math-based students for entry to higher education or to
direct employment and this, in turn, would strengthen the technological base of the



- 30 -
workforce. The project would also improve the capacity of the RIs to support local
development through undertaking targeted research and technical services projects.
B. Risks
5.2         The main risk associated with the project concerns the capacity of MOE to
implement the project. Staff have not had recent experience in Bank implementation
procedures and special attention has been given to designing sound implementation
arrangements. Emphasis will also be given to overall coordination between MOE and the
project institutions. The risk will be mitigated by the allocation of additional Bank
resources to project supervision in the early years of implementation and through the annual
reviews of implementation performance.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, the Government agreed:
(a) to the terms of reference for the education sector policy review (para.
2.15);
(b) to prepare an education sector strategy for review in conjunction with the
Bank by March 15, 1997 and to review progress in the implementation
of the strategy with the Bank by March 15, 1999 (para. 2.16);
(c) that standard CSC procedures would be applied to the selection fellows
for overseas training and that returning fellows would be subject to
standard bonding requirements (para. 3.9);
(d) that in conjunction with the Bank, the Government would undertake an
annual review of project progress based on agreed monitorable
indicators, which had been integrated into the overall monitoring system
(para. 4.10);
(e) that the third annual review would include an overall assessment of
implementation experience to date and also include discussions on the
development of future projects (para. 4.10);
(f) that audited accounts of the project, including a separate opinion for
expenditures under SOE procedures, would be sent to the Bank within
six months at the end of each financial year (para. 4.14); and
(g) that implementation status reports would be prepared for presentation to
visiting Bank supervision missions (para. 4.14).



- 31 -
6.2        The condition of loan effectiveness is that the PCU and PIU would be
established and staffed with key personnel (para. 4.7).
6.3        Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable basis for a
fixed rate US dollar single currency Bank loan of US$81.9 million equivalent to Thailand
for a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace.



- 32 -
ANNEX I
THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Number and Proportion of Students in Public and Private Institutions, by Level and
Type of Education, 1994
Teacher            Undergraduate  Graduate
General   Vocational  Training    Others     Degree      Degree      Total
________________                          ~~1/               7    
Total              10,856,971    779.500    96,879   22,093         733,343    38,745   12,527,531
Public             9,483,059    415.251    96,879   22,093         674,802    35,646   10,667,730
Private            1,373,912    364.249         -         -        118,541     3,099    1,859,801
Public:Private         86:14      53:47     100:00    100:00          92:08     92:08       85:15
Preprimary          1,390,417                                                            1,390,417
Public              986,089                                                              986,089
Private             404,328                                                              404,328
Public:Private         71:29                                                                71:29
Primary             7,969,672                                                           7,969,672
Public             6,790,385                                                           6,790,385
Private            1,179,287                                                            1,179,287
Public:Private         85:15                                                                85:15
Lower Secondary    2,236,070                                                            2,236,070
Public             2,075,449                                                           2,075,449
Private             160,621                                                              160,621
Public:Private         92:08                                                                92:08
Upper Secondary      651,299    543,147                1,906                            1,196,282
Public              617,225    272,710                1,906                              891,841
Private              34,004    270,437                    -                              304,441
Public:Private         95:05      50:50               100:00                                75:25
Higher                          236,488     96,879   20,187         733,343    38,745    1,125,642
Public                         142,676     96,879   20,187         614,802    35,646     970,190
Private                         93,812          -         -        118,541     3,099     215,452
Public:Private                    60:40      100:00   100:00          83:17     93:08       86:14
Source: Policy and Planning Division, Office of Permanent Secretary MOE
1/ Number of enrolled students in institutions under the jurisdiction of Department of Teacher Education,
Ministry of Public Health, and the Ministry of Transport and Communication
Note: Variances in figures are the result of rounding errors in this chart or others.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
(Page I of 3)
THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
The Government's Program: Three More Years in School
The distribution of government educational services in Thailand is unequal,
favoring Bangkok and other urban centers. The NEC cites evidence that the difference in
secondary level enrollment ratios between urban and rural districts increased between
1981 (25.2% difference) and 1985 (28.9% difference). In light of evidence suggesting
t,,,at rural people would send their children to send their children to secondary schools if
these were located close by, the MOE in 1988 announced its intention to extend universal
education from 6 to 9 years on a non-compulsory basis. In 1989, the program was
implemented on trial basis with two pilot projects operated by two MOE departments:
ONPEC and DGE.
Project on the Extension of Basic Education to Lower Secondary Level.
In light of the Cabinet's decision to increase coverage beyond the primary level
and to encourage rural children to remain in school at the lower secondary grades, DGE
in 1987 initiated this project with the objective of establishing 718 schools in 38
economically disadvantaged provinces, and selected rural areas.
Schools joining the project would establish a centrally located branch to offer
lower secondary classes to children in surrounding villages. Schools were given limited
freedom to design their own curriculum. The curriculum was presumably to emphasize
vocational skills. Students were not required to attend school at the regular hours in order
to introduce sufficient flexibility to help with farm chores or to travel long distances.
About 71% of the pilot schools preferred the regular curriculum and several
schools reverted to the regular curriculum after the first year. A number of direct
subsidies were also introduced such as loans for textbooks, no uniforms, low-cost
dormitories and exemption from fees.
Pilot Project for Expansion of Educational Opportunities
The rationale for this project, designed and implemented by ONPEC, is
similar to that above, i.e. to see whether the three-year lower secondary education grades
can be successfully joined with a primary school. This pilot project had as objectives. a)
to identify an appropriate curriculum for a nine-year basic cycle; b) to raise the transition
rate between Grades 6 and 7; and c) to ascertain parents attitudes toward lower secondary
education particularly in rural areas.



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
(Page 2 of 3)
A new curriculum was proposed for this pilot program which included
more vocational courses. Students must attend during regular hours but the school is free
to adopt a school calendar suitable to local demands.
The project was to be implemented in 75 provinces starting with 119
schools in 1990 and increasing to 5,321 schools by 1996 by which time it was estimated
that about 718,335 students would be enrolled.
Eligibility for a school to participate in this program was determined on
the basis of: a) adequate classrooms; b) the school principal and teachers work together as
a team and for the goals of the project; and c) the local community are interested in
joining the program.
Federal subsidy of the program covered all tuition fees, textbooks and
uniforms for one year. In some locations, a school lunch program was also provided.
An Evaluation of the ONPEC Project
An evaluation of the pilot project by the NEC reported that the project was
successful in increasing coverage at the lower secondary level. The major conclusion
was that by having a school within walking distance can reduce educational costs for
families. It was also found that poor planning has, in some instances, resulted in
misplaced schools. Other major problems identified were:
I) Many of the teachers were trained to teach primary grades and were not
prepared to teach lower at the secondary level especially in mathematics, Thai and
English language and some vocational courses.
2)  Teaching equipment and instructional materials, particularly for
science subjects, was lacking.
3)   Management problems are still present after two years of
implementation. Some principals and teachers did not understand project goals and
guidelines. In a few cases, children enrolling in the program were not from poor families.
Many schools have applied to participate in the project and ONPEC is
trying to expand the project while maintaining standards and adhering to project
objectives. The evaluation document, "Three More Years in School" which interviewed
hundred of village parents, concluded with this summary of villagers'



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
(Page 3 of 3)
Grades 7-9 into the local primary school: "Most villagers did not find elementary
education enough to get a decent job in the formal sector. They realize that the labor
market is now demanding at least the lower secondary education. Without lower
secondary education, one can only expect low pay and hard working jobs. A person with
primary education often cannot find employment, and has to return to work on the farm,
and sometimes, has become a burden for parents. Parents believe that with lower
secondary certificate, their children will be smarter, have greater opportunities to get a
good job, and have a better life. In addition, some villagers said enrollment in lower
secondary education will ensure that their children are able to continue in the upper
secondary and higher education levels if they wanted to."'2
12 Sopchokchai, 0. 1991. " Three Years in School: Parents' Opinion and Problems." Thailand
Development Research Institute, November 1991.



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Staff Development Program, 1997- 2001
CY                  1997      1998      1999    2000    2001        Total
Local Inservice Training
Teachers                              2,380    2,380    4,760    4,760   4,760    19,040
RI staff                               375       377       377      376       375      1,880
Overs. Inservice Training - RI staff      170        170       170       170      170       850
Fellowships
MA                                      30        35         30        30       -        150
PhD.                                    65        35        25         -        -        125



- 37 -
ANNEX 4
THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Expenditure by Year Including Contingencies
1997    1998   1999  2000  2001   Total  1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                275.5   413.2      -      -      -   688.7  11.0  16.5    -    -    -  27.5
B. Equipment                      -   716.0  713.9  371.8      - 1,464.6     - 28.7  28.6  14.9    -  72.1
C. Institutional Development
1. Training
In-country               11.9    23.2  24.1  25.1  26.0   110.4  0.5  0.9  1.0  1.0  1.0   4.4
Overseas                 31.2    32.0  32.9  33.8  34.7   164.6   1.2  1.3  1.3  1.4  1.4   6.6
Subtotal Training              43.1    55.3  57.0  58.8  60.7   274.9   1.7  2.2  2.3  2.4  2.4  11.0
2. Fellowships
In-Country MA             3.7       -      -   4.1      -     7.8  0.1      -    -  0.2      -   0.3
In-Country Phd            3.7       -   4.0      -      -     7.6  0.1      -  0.2    -    -   0.3
Overseas: MA             24.3    32.5  32.1  22.4       -   111.3   1.0  1.3  1.3  0.9       -   4.5
Overseas: Phd            73.0    37.5  48.1      -      -   158.5  2.9  1.5  1.9    -    -   6.3
Subtotal Fellowships          104.6    69.9  84.1  26.5       -   285.2  4.2  2.8  3.4  1.1        -   11.4
Subtotal Institutional Dev.   147.8   125.2  141.1  85.3  60.7   560.1   5.9  5.0  5.7  3.5  2.4  22.4
D. Research Projects
ResearchGrants                -    31.9  33.2  34.6  15.3   114.9       -  1.3  1.3  1.4  0.6   4.6
Foreign Consultants        21.7    22.2  16.3  13.4  13.8    87.4  0.9  0.9  0.7  0.5  0.6   3.5
Local Consultants           6.1     6.4   6.6   6.9   7.1    33.1   0.2  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3   1.3
Subtotal Research Projects     27.8    60.5  56.5  54.8  36.2   235.4   1.1  2.4  2.2  2.2  1.4   9.4
E. Technical Service Project    6.2     7.0   7.3   8.1   9.4    38.1   0.2  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.4   1.5
F. Monitoring and Evaluation    2.0     2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4    11.0  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1   0.4
G. Project Management
Procurement/Management
Consultants               1.5    2.1   0.5        -      -     4.2  0.1  0.1  0.0    -    -   0.2
Facilities                1.5     1.6   1.6   1.7   1.7    8.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1   0.3
Subtotal Project Mgt.           3.1     3.7   2.2   1.7   1.7    12.3  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1   0.5
Total Investment Costs        462.3  1,327.7  922.9  524.1  110.4 3,347.4  18.5 53.1  36.9 21.0  4.4  133.9
II. Recurrent Costs
Equipment O&M                29.1    30.3  31.5  32.8  34.2   157.8   1.2  1.2  1.3  1.3  1.4   6.3
Total Recurrent Costs          29.1    30.3  31.5  32.8  34.2   157.8  1.2  1.2  1.3  1.3  1.4   6.3
Total Project Costs           491.3  1,358.0  945.4  556.9  144.6 3,505.2  19.7  54.3  38.2 22.3  5.8  140.2



- 38 -
Annex S
THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart for Project Management
Permanent Secretary
F      Proje-ctCoordinating Uni
(PCU)I
Secret ary    |             Project Operating|
General of ORIC              ICommittee (POC)
Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
ProjectManager   |
Consultants 
|Functional Unit I   Fucioa Uni           Fmctional UniucinlUi
General Adrni.             II                  III                 IV
and               Epuipment            Training            Planning
Disbursements         Procurement         Fellowships             Key
and Civil Works       Study Tours         Performance
Indicators &
M&E



THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
1996            1997             1998      ]      1999             2000             2001             2002            2
ID    TaskName                                         12         4       2      4            3     41      2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2   3   4 1 2 3 4 1 2
2    Negotiations                                           5.
3    Board presentation
*6/30
4    Loan signing                                               73
5    Effectiveness*103
6    General Procurement Notice (GPN)
7    New project startup seminar
8    PIU established and staffed
9
i0   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
11   Local training for ORIC staff                                  ____________________________
12   Overseas training for ORIC staff                              _____________________________________
113   Local in-service training for secondary teachers             _________________________________
14   Fellowships  for Rls                                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
16   CONSULTANTS
17   Project management and procurement-
18
19   EQUIPMENT AND RELATED O&MI
20   Preparation of equipment lists and specs.
21   Preparation and approval of bidding docs.
25   Invitation for bids
29   Bid evaluation
33   Review and approval of recommended awards--



THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
1996     =      1997      1      1998            1999             2000      ]     2001             2002            2
ID    Task Name                                      1  2   32 3 1               2    4       1                        1 2|  3 |1  23   4 11               1       2 1 3 1 4 1  22
37   Award of contracts                                                             _ -            -                                  .
41    Delivery, installation and testing                                                                                 -
45   Delivery, installation and initial testing          *                                         -                             -
49
50   CIVIL WORKS
51   Prep. of working drawings and specs.                             P               P II
54   Preparation and approval of bidding docs.           ,
57   Invitation for bids
60   Bid evaluation
63   Review and approval of recommended awards                      :
66   Award of contracts;                                                                                                              '.o
69   Construction Period
70   Delivery of completed works                                .l
71   Warranty Period cl_                                                                                                                _i
72
73   LOAN PROCESSING
74   Audit Reports -                                                   eX
82   Project Completion Date
______   _______________________________________                                                               *   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0/31
83   Project Closing Date
84   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Due
10/31
cty



- 41 -
ANNEX 7
THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
BANK SUPERVISION MISSION PLAN
TM  = Task Manager   PS = Procurement Specialist 13   00= Operations Officer
Length
Timing                (in weeks)          Nature of Mission      Team Composition
Year I of Project'
Month 1                   2                   Start-up              TM, PS, 00
Month 3                   2                  Supervision              TM,PS
Month 7                   2                  Supervision            TM, PS, 00
Month 12                  2                  Supervision               TM, PS
Year 2 of Project
Month 3                   3                Annual Review            TM, PS, 00
Month 7                   1                  Supervision              TM, 00
Month 12                   2                 Supervision               TM, PS
Year 3 of Project
Month 3                   3                Annual Review            TM, PS, 00
Month 7                   1                  Supervision              TM, 00
Month 12                  2                  Supervision              TM, PS
Year 4 of Project
Month 3                   3                Progress Review          TM, PS, 00
Month 9                   2                  Supervision              TM, 00
Year 5 of Project
Month 3                   3                Annual Review            TM, PS, 00
Month 9                   1                  Supervision              TM, PS
Year 6 - Following
Project Completion
Month 3                   3                 ICR Mission             TM, PS, 00
The Procurement Specialist will also have expertise as a Technical Educator and will therefore combine
two roles.
14 Project year begins on Date of Effectiveness.



THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Key Performance Indicators
1997            1998             1999             2002             2003
Baseline      Intermediate    Mid-term               ICR         Full Impact
Project Goal and Objectives                     Key Performance Indicators                Year             Years            Year             Year             Year
Major Goal: Improve the quality of secondary education in science and mathematics through the strengthening of teacher education in these subjects
Objectives:                                   Impact Indicator:
I. Raise the qualifications of teaching staff in    1.1   The graduates of the Rls will demonstrate,   1997 graduate   ---             ---                       Fulfilled:
selected Rajabhat Institutes (teacher           on an examination prepared by the         examinations                                                       Impact measured
colleges) and enhance their understanding of    respective Rls, that they have, on the    used as base-                                                      by examinations
modem teacher education techniques               average, raised their level of skills and  line for indicator                                               administered by
knowledge by at least 20% by the Impact                                                                     respective Rls
Year
1.2   All fellows have received degrees and                                                                       Fulfilled:
100% have retumed to teach in their                                                                         All received
respective Rls                                                                                               degrees and all
Output Indicator:                                                                          Fulfilled:       returned to teach
1.21  From 17 project supported institutions   ---              5 Master's       Total of 65     Total of 150     in the Rls
(Rls), the project will finance local and                 grads. return    Master's & 10    Master's and 125
overseas fellowships for 125 Masters and                                   Ph.D. grads.     Ph.D. students
125 Ph.D. students who will return as staff                               have retumed    have retumed
in the Rls
Impact Indicator:                                                                                 Fulfilled:
2. Reinforce quality improvement in the Rls   2.1   By the ICR year, all participating       ---              ---              ---              All labs and
through modemizing science laboratories         institutions will have upgraded and                                                         workshops are
and workshops with up-to-date equipment,        equipped a sufficient number and types of                                                   upgraded and
expanding laboratory space and refurbishing     laboratories and workshops required to                                                      fully equipped
workshops                                       meet the standard requirements of the
documented curricula
Output Indicators:                                                                         Fulfilled:
2.11  Equipment valued at about US$65.5 million  ---            ---              About 50% of    100% of
will be purchased according to an agreed                                   procurement is  equipment is                             X  >
upon schedule                                                              completed       procured                                 ft  4
Fulfilled:                                               -
2.12  Civil works valued at about US$26.5 million About 15% of   About65%of    100%ofcivil
will be completed on an agreed upon      civil works is    civil works is    works is
schedule                                 completed        completed        completed



THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Key Performance Indicators
1997             1998              1999            2002             2003
Baseline       Intermediate       Mid-term            ICR         Full Impact
Project Goal and Objectives                    Key Performance Indicators                Year             Years             Year             Year            Year
Impact Indicator                                                                                  Fulfilled:
3  Expand the capacity of the Rls to carry out    3 1   In courses where the teachers have been  The examination  --                            An increase of
inservice training of secondary teachers        given significant quantities of inservice  will be prepared                                  15% is obtained
training over the duration of the project, the before the end of
graduates from those courses will       the 1997 year and
demonstrate on a test developed by the  scores obtained
respective institutions, by the ICR year,  will be used as
that they have increased their skills and  the baseline data
knowledge by an average of at least 15%    for comparison in
ICR year
Output Indicators:                                                                          Fulfilled:
3.11  ORIC will provide inservice training (5-15  376 trained  376 trained        376 trained     Total of 1,880 RI
day duration) for 1,880 RI staff                                                            staff are trained
Fulfilled:                                  a
3 12  850 RI staff will be provided with short-ter  170 trained  170 trained      170 trained     Total of 850 RI
overseas training                       Fulfilled:                                          staff are trained
3.13  RI staff, teaching math and science, will be  Fully
required to spend at least 10 days a year    implemented as
visiting schools where they will train  policy in 1997
teachers and assist in course
implementation                          Fulfilled:
3 14  Rls would be required to upgrade the    Fully
capacity of 280 existing teachers per year   implemented as
policy in 1997
Impact Indicator:                                                                                 Fulfilled:
4  Enhance the Rls capacity to undertake     4. 1   The research supported by the project   ---             20 documented      Total of 40      Total of 100
research and provide technical services t the   would produce at least 100 documented                    improvements have documented       documented
community                                       improvements in services offered by the                  been made          improvements   improvements
Rls to students and to the community                                        have been made  have been made
Outpu Inadicalors:
4.11  The Project will finance 170 research   ---             ---                ---              Fulfilled:
projects in science and math education,                                                     170 projects                                 >
industrial technology, health, environment                                                  financed and                                 : 
and agriculture                                                                             implemented                                  t
Fulfilled:                                  X
4.12  The Project will finance 270 research   ---             ---                ---              270 projects
projects to improve RI capacity to provide                                                  financed and
local technical services                                                                    implemented



- 44 -
ANNEX 9
THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DISBURSEMENTS
Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year and                                                             Disbursements
Semester             Semester          Cumulative       as % of Total        Profile (%)
Thailand All Sectors
1997         1              0.0               0.0                0                    0
2              6.0               6.0                7                    3
1998         1              8.0               14.0               17                   6
2              8.0               22.0              27                   18
1999         1             15.0               37.0              45                   26
2             15.0               52.0              63                   38
2000         1             15.0               67.0               81                  54
2             10.0               77.0              94                   66
2001         1              3.0               80.0               97                  78
2              1.0               81.0              98                   86
2002         1              0.6               81.6               99                  94
2             0.3                81.9              100                  98
2003         1                                                                       100
Completion Date: October 31, 2001
Closing Date:    April 30, 2002



- 45 -
ANNEX 10
THAILAND
SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
A-1   World Bank, July 1991. "Decision and Change in Thailand: Three Studies in
Support of the Seventh Plan".
A-2   World Bank, 1991. "Vocational Training in a Changing Economy: The Case of
Thailand", PHREE Background Paper Series No.PHREE/91/33.
A-3   National Education Commission, 1983. "Efficiency of Secondary Education."
A-4   Thailand Development Research Institute, 1991. "Educational Options for Future
of Thailand", Vol. I, The 1991 Year-End Conference.
A-5   ADB, October 1994. "Secondary Education in the Asia-Pacific Region, 1960 and
1990: Strategic Initiatives and Policy Analysis".
B.    Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1  Tunsiri, Vichai, 1994. "Secondary Education in Thailand."
B-2   Sopchokchai, 0. 1991. "Three More Years in School: Parents' Opinion and
Problems." Thailand Development Research Institute.
B-3   World Bank, 1994. "The Contribution of Secondary Education to Growth and
Development in Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia", Education
and Social Policy Secondary Education Work Program Background Paper.
C.   Selected Working Papers
C-1   Department of Teacher Education. 1994. Project Proposal.
C-2  Terms of Reference



The Structure of the National Education System
PRE-PRIMARY           PRIMARY EDUCATION                     SECONDARY EDUCATION                 HIGHER EDUCATION                          GRADUATE
EDUCATION                                                                                       UNDERGRADUATE
Teacher Training
Lower               Upper               1
Universily
[ H ~~1  |2  |3 |4|5|6  [  1|2|3|4|5|6-
VocatlorTabclinical
Military/ Police
A ENTRANCE EXAMINATION
O  CERTIFICATE                                                                               *          2    3   4111
*  DIPLOMA                                                                                                                                             0)
-1
*  DEGREE                                         Music/Dramallc Arts                                                                                  r+
Age    3 -6            7    8    9   10  11  12            13  14  15           16  17   1                19  20  21  22  23  24
sads/w50419a



Organization of the Ministry of Eiucation
MINISTER OF
EDUCATION
PERMANENT
SECRETARY
Department ofDepartment of                  Ofice of the Rajabhat         Department of               Department of              Department of
General Education         Vocational Education         Institutes Council     Insructnelom                  Physical Education              Fine Arts
Department of                 Department of    l        Rajamangala Institute           Office of National           Office of Teacher Civil
Religious Affairs          Non-Formal Education              of Technology              Culture Commission            Service Commission
Office of National            Office of Private
Primary Education           Education Commision
Commission
ksr/c5tw61 961
C*1)



- 48 -
Chart 3
Number of Students by Education Level: Academic Year 1992
Persons (millions)
12
112                 
10
9
8
7 
6
5
4
3
2
0
1988       1989       1990        1991       I q q 2
Z Higher Education
I Upper Secondary Education
u Lower Secondary Education
Elementary Education
Pre-elementary Education
cak\c4\wI074a



- 49G -
Chart 4
Number of Students at Secondary Education and Higher Education by Grade
and Educational Type: Academic Year 1992
Graduate Degree
Higher Ed. 4th and 5th year
High Ed. 3rd year
Higher Ed. 2nd year
Higher Ed. 1st year
r                                             Grade 12
Grade 11
Grade 10
1          Grade 9
Grade 8
]Grade 7
I      I       I    I    I    L    I  I  I   I    I            I    I
350  300 250  200 150  100  50   0   50  100  150 200  250 300  350
Persons (thousands)
General Education Type                  Vocational Education Type
-IHigher Education                      Teacher Training Type
(Undergraduate Degree
and Higher)
cak\c4\wl704a






L0   SO      OS    1 0O  200 KILO,,ETERS
M Y. A N M A R  g  1. (iChiong;  )    5 0  100        10I    MYI M0  r 2M Lo
17                                                                                                CA"  A -
(] M(HongSon  \  t /   'LAO  PEOPLE'S                             *  icooooooo;
S s,J } )t Pho=o p              DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC
f-'                                        /         --S  /   < /                                     M  YIA7
-IE    \'                           '   9-j   /~                                         _____________Id
./I)     .[f~0l )    N                                                                   -R  _________<Pv~ 
R            0GhI o        )                      e    (- Th
1R   S         /                X           \          N O  R T H E A    T' , d:- 
K-,k;; lag Phon..n/@@= <--A
) R   N1 9~-R  IOtl,odl    /-'            t-         R     h,                                 I E-
N              _~C      NAL                                  J -               1         ( h,
\ ' Suphtburls r g koS < X # 1 E} jr~~    N..Ek
KoIhnk),ko.h N.omo          /                         N     A \         
',   i?,po~4I~ N_    o                                    NOR  THE~~
~~~~ f ~       ~         Gl
OchJ*      <Phel                                     / . .)
ANDAMAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R El  ,                                   ( 
SEA ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H Ai Io'                                        CAMBODIA
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SSPrnnpkonp Khi 0Khon
.-        Ihailond
OK-b.~  ~ ho                                         RIVERSn, 
CE-                                              PRO NC BOUNDARIE
M   ,AMA  ) sCmpon.snL~    ahn       hn..
-!                                                                                                           .,-"
/S  ng       j/oab.        .'
ANAMAN    I  I                                             THAILAND
I   * Suox IhIL.
s      o u   aoh                    SECONARY EDUCATIO
00)QALT  MROEET RJC
Phongng                             Gulf shmool@ POJC NTlUIN
R  / l  
Il~ ~                                              ---a-RAINA  ONDRE
'I~           ~~ ?~~ -                                                                 -vNouh
da ~  ~     - mo                                                      THAILANDnd;pe lMALY    A   /r
ffi7 mrUA-                                                 SEONAR   EDUCATIONnySr pr.or, 
_~~~~~~~ULT  IPOEMEN  PR cpOJECT( ,
< ssIrbouncbras            Ioo-              \,J                                  10Na4kan S









IMAGING
Report No:       15577 TH
Type: SAR



