                  Document of
               The World Bank




                                              Report No: 33396

      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                  (SCL-40520)

                     ON A

                    LOAN

       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 81.90 MILLION

                     TO

                  THAILAND

                   FOR THE

SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                December 28, 2005

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective )

                         Currency Unit = Thai Baht
                              Baht 1.00 = US$ 41.00
                                 US$ 1 = Baht .02

                                FISCAL YEAR


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
DGE                Department of General Education
EMIS               Education Management Information System (MOE)
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
ESSN               Education Sector Strategy Note
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
ICT                Information Communication Technology
IT                 Information Technology
KPI                Key Performance Indicators
MIS                Management Information System
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
MOE                Ministry of Education
MOF                Ministry of Finance
MTR                Mid-term Review
N.B.F.             Not Bank Financed
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
NPV                Net Present Value
OBEC               Office of Basic Education Commission
ONPEC              Office of the National Primary Education Commission
ORIC               Office of the Rajabhat Institute Council
PAD                Project Appraisal Document
PCD                Project Concept Document
PSR                Project Status Report
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
QAG                Quality Assurance Group
RI                 Rajabhat Institute
SEAR               Student English Access Room
SMLC               Science and Mathematics Learning Center

                        Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum (EAPVP)
                      Country Director      Ian C. Porter (EACTF)
                       Sector Manager       Christopher J. Thomas (EASHD)
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Omporn Regel (EASHD)

                                          THAILAND
                SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
Annex 8. Borrower's Comments                                                     40

Project ID: P004791                                                  Project Name: SEC EDUC QUALITY IMPROV
Team Leader: Omporn Regel                                            TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: SEC EDUC QUALITY IMPROV                                  L/C/TF Number: SCL-40520
   Country/Department: THAILAND                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Secondary education (89%); Tertiary education (11%)
                  Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P); Education for all (P); Social analysis and
                            monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/30/1993                                     Effective: 10/01/1997                10/01/1997
     Appraisal: 04/25/1995                                         MTR: 09/01/1999                  09/01/1999
      Approval: 06/25/1996                                      Closing: 04/30/2002                 04/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF THAILAND/MIN OF EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:      N/A

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Jayasankar Shivakumar
Sector Manager:                 Christopher J. Thomas                          Sven Burmester
Team Leader at ICR:             Omporn Regel                                   William Rees
ICR Primary Author:             Honchan Chai


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    The project substantially met its stated development objective. The overall objective was to assist the
    Borrower in raising the quality of secondary education in science and mathematics through
    strengthening teacher education in these subjects. Specifically, the project sought to: (a) raise the
    qualifications of teaching staff in 17 selected Rajabhat Institutes (RI - former teacher colleges) under
    the management of the Office of the Rajabhat Institutes Council (ORIC), and enhance their
    understanding of modern teacher education techniques; (b) reinforce quality improvement in the RIs
    through modernizing science laboratories and workshops with up-to-date equipment and expanding
    laboratory space and refurbishing workshops; (c) expand the capacity of the RIs to carry out in-service
    training of secondary teachers; and (d) enhance the capacity of the RIs to undertake research and
    provide technical services to the community.

    The original objective was clear, appropriate and closely aligned with the Borrower's sector
    development priorities, and the Borrower considered the project important and timely. The project
    objective and design were also consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). It is
    noted that the project was implemented at a time when there was considerable instability, both in the
    economy and the Government.

3.2 Revised Objective:
    The development objective was slightly modified when the project scope was expanded to include
    assistance to selected 150 lower and 80 upper secondary schools managed, respectively, by the Office
    of National Primary Education Commission (ONPEC) and the Department of General Education
    (DGE). This revision was due to a late recognition that the project would significantly increase its
    impact if lessons learned from the teaching of mathematics and science in RIs could be effectively used
    to improve the teaching of mathematics and science at the secondary education level. In this revision,
    English was also included as the third teaching subject for quality improvement, and an activity was
    added to support instructional materials development. These revisions were agreed upon with Bank
    management and were supported by an Amendment to the Loan Agreement, dated April 17, 2002.

3.3 Original Components:
    The project components were well designed to meet the project objective. The Borrower's project
    implementation teams were assessed to have the financial and management capacity to fully implement
    the planned components. In addition, project components were: (a) relevant to the project objective; (b)
    reasonably within the implementation capacity of the agency; and (c) informed by experience from
    previous Bank projects in Thailand and the EAP region. See Section 3.5 for more discussion of the
   quality of the project design at entry.

   The original project focused on ORIC, with 17 selected RIs, out of a total of 30 RIs, that were located
   outside the Bangkok metropolitan region. The development objective was achieved through five
   components comprising: (a) upgrading educational facilities and equipment; (b) institutional
   development; (c) project management; and (d) monitoring and evaluation. A Bank Education Sector
   Strategy Note, completed in 1999, provided the rationale for restructuring the project to channel direct
   assistance to lower and upper secondary education through ONPEC and DGE. Under this
   restructuring, pilot projects were funded to prepare the way for anticipated major interventions in the
   education sector. This coincided with the introduction of the new National Education Act, 1999 (NEA),
   which called for major reforms in the education system. Under the NEA, secondary schools would be
   empowered with greater authority and independence to manage their own resources, and the RIs would



                                                     - 2 -

   become autonomous. See Section 3.4 for details of the ONPEC and DGE pilot projects.

   ORIC, the original investment program, supported the improvement of the quality of teacher education
   and science and mathematics education aimed at raising the academic and professional qualifications of
   RI teaching staff, and through them the improvement of pedagogical skills at the secondary education
   level. The components were as follows:

   Civil Works. At each of the 17 RIs: (a) two existing computer laboratories would be upgraded; (b)
   workshops would be renovated or replaced; and (c) a new four-story science block would be
   constructed;
   Equipment. At each of the 17 RIs, science equipment would be upgraded as required to support core
   teaching areas in physics, chemistry, biology, biotechnology and environmental science. Specific
   equipment, including computers, would also be procured to support the RIs' expanding research
   activities and to strengthen the teaching/learning of mathematics. Equipment-related O&M
   expenditures would also be supported by the project;
   Institutional Development. Institutional capacity would be strengthened by staff development under:
   (a) a fellowship program to strengthen the academic and professional qualifications of science and
   mathematics teachers; and (b) an in-service training program to upgrade the knowledge and skills of
    RI staff who are responsible for the in-service training of secondary school teachers in mathematics,
    science, and computer education;
    Research and Technical Service Projects. In line with the policy to enable the RIs to eventually
    become multi-function institutions, the project would finance: (a) research projects in science and
    mathematics education, industrial technology, health, agriculture and the environment; (b) technical
    service projects to support local community development; and (c) the development of instructional
    modules for teaching/learning science/technology and other subjects, as appropriate;
    Project Management. The project would finance, with government funds, office refurbishment and
    equipment, including computers for the ORIC's PIU, which also served as the secretariat for the
    Project Steering Committee in MOE; and
    Monitoring and Evaluation. The project would support the establishment of a project monitoring and
    evaluation (M&E) system at the central PIU level and in each of the 17 RIs to facilitate effective
    monitoring and evaluation of project implementation and outcomes.

3.4 Revised Components:
    As mentioned under Section 3.2 above, the project was restructured in 2002 to include ONPEC and
    DGE. As ONPEC and DGE had their own PIUs, the original project evolved into three separate
    operations, each with different scope, coverage, and expected outcomes. Nevertheless, they were all
    linked together to support the project's common objective to improve the quality of secondary
    education. The ONPEC and DGE components are described below.

   ONPEC, whose main objective was to improve the quality and integration of mathematics, science,
   English and computer education at the lower secondary level had the following components:

   Equipment Procurement. Computers and related peripherals would be provided to 150 lower
   secondary schools to facilitate the integration of ICT into a learner-centered approach within each
   project school. Local area networks (LAN) and access to the Internet would also be provided to
   support e-library usage and the enhancement of classroom teaching/learning;
   Expert Services. The project would provide for: (a) three specialists on Planning and Project
   Management, Science and Technology, and Monitoring and Evaluation; (b) six expert teams: one for
    ICT services, and five for Staff Development Training in the project's five geographical areas;


                                                     - 3 -

    Staff Development/Training. These consultants would support:
    1. Training of subject area teachers and supervisors in computer-integrated lesson planning in the
    four subject areas, to be carried out in two phases. Each phase would be about 10 days' duration, with
    follow-up on-site activities. The supervisors would be trained to support and monitor the
    implementation of the computer-integrated school curriculum and instruction;
    2. Training of ICT teachers in computer teaching to enable them to operate the school ICT system in
   support of the computer-integrated curriculum and instruction, and to help the subject area teachers to
   use the ICT system in teaching;
   3. Training of school administrators and school project coordinators in school management,
   instructional leadership, managing the school ICT, and project monitoring and evaluation; and
   4. Training of stakeholders, including policymakers, other project school teaching staff and
   community key persons, in instructional leadership and ICT/English language proficiency for school
   reform.
   Development of Learning Networks. Learning networks would be established to support
   instructional materials development, exchange programs for project schools, and ICT networks for
   student participants;
   Project Management. The project would provide for training in project management, project
   planning, project implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and best practices of teaching/learning in
   specific subject areas to strengthen instructional management capacity; and
   Project Monitoring and Evaluation. The project would support the monitoring and evaluation of
   project activities.

   DGE, whose main objective was to upgrade science, mathematics and English instruction at the upper
    secondary level, had three components, as follows:

    Improvement of science laboratories, Science and Mathematics Learning Center (SMLC), and
    Student English Access Room (SEAR) in the project schools. The project would support the
    improvement of six science laboratories, one SMLC and one SEAR in each of the 80 selected upper
    secondary schools through physical facilities renovation and provision of equipment and computer
    software and instructional materials;
    Staff Development. The project would provide training in the use of Logical Framework, school
    management, use of instructional materials, teaching techniques, educational leadership, and
    monitoring and evaluation; and
    Monitoring and Evaluation. The project would support the monitoring and evaluation of the various
    training programs and the use of the SEAR and SMLC.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
    The project was not subject to a QAG assessment at entry. The original project was adequately
    prepared and strategically focused on upgrading and strengthening the institutional capacity of selected
    Rajabhat Institutes.

    The ICR rating for quality at entry of the ORIC project is satisfactory. The rating is based on the
    following considerations: (a) the development objective was congruent with the Borrower's sector
    development priorities which were subsequently formally articulated in the August 1999 Education
    Act; (b) the project was focused on an agreed-upon development objective which remained constant
    through the duration of the project; (c) the project components were designed to be sustained by the
    Ministry of Education; (d) the project design was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
    Strategy (CAS); and (e) the project design was fully consistent with the Bank's safeguard policies.




                                                      - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

    The project substantially achieved its overall objective of improving educational quality. This
    assessment is based on project outputs as well as outcomes for ORIC, ONPEC and DGE that were
    rated satisfactory or highly satisfactory. Thus, the overall rating for Outputs/Achievement of
   Objective is satisfactory. A brief discussion of the outcomes is presented below, with additional
   supporting data presented in Section 4.2.


   ORIC. The project RIs were able to upgrade their services to a level expected of a tri-focused
   university system (teaching, research, and community service) and to meet the quality and service
   requirements of the Government. Within the scope of the project, new science centers, with conference
   facilities, were established at each of the 17 project RIs. All existing science workshops were also
   renovated through procurement of science equipment, including computers, for teaching/learning and
   selected areas of advanced research. RI staff training (fellowships and in-service training) was also
   provided to support the effective implementation of new and modified science and mathematics
   courses.

   As a part of their improved community services, the RIs were able to effectively increase their capacity
   to provide technical assistance to secondary schools with a view toward improving quality of
   instruction at all levels. Recent evaluations indicate that these inputs supported significant
   improvements in the quality of instruction, curricula and instructional materials at the secondary level.
   This is most notably seen in the MOEs successful move to incorporate student-based learning and
   activity-based curricula and instructional materials into targeted schools at the secondary level. The
   staff training provided by the RIs enabled this reform to take place (Final Evaluation Report for
   ORIC, dated September 29, 2005, and various summaries of baseline data studies, school visits and
   progress reports (Annex 7).

   The RIs were also able to significantly increase their capacity to carry out problem-based research to
   support community development. Since the focus of this research is problem-based and centered on
   community service, there is reason to assume that they will lead to improvements in community
   infrastructure, productivity, and services. There was also a positive trend toward increasing grade
   point averages (GPA) in all of the project institutions, see Final Evaluation Report of ORIC, dated
   September 29, 2005). As a trend toward increasing GPAs may be considered an indication of improved
   graduate quality, there is reason to assume that the more capable graduates will contribute to increases
   in productivity in the public and private sector where there is a high demand for their services.

   ONPEC. The ONPEC investment program: (a) enabled more than 50% of the students in the target
   schools to develop the capacity to use computers support their learning in major subjects; (b) enabled
   more than 50% of the teachers in the target schools to develop the capacity to use computers in
   classroom teaching, especially in mathematics, science, English and computer subjects; (c) enabled
   almost 100% of the computer teachers in the target schools to develop the capacity to operate and
   maintain their respective school computer system, and to assist other subject teachers in the use of
   ICTs (final reports of the five personnel development teams); and (d) improved instructional leadership
   and provided increased support of principals, heads, and supervisors of project schools as they sought
   to introduce the use of ICTs in selected school programs. These findings were documented during Bank
   supervision missions; studies conducted by Dr. Richard Watson and others (Annex 7); and through the
   Final Project Implementation Report of ONPEC, dated September 7, 2005.


                                                     - 5 -

    DGE. The DGE investment program: (a) improved students' ability to creatively learn science,
    mathematics, English, and increased the use of, and access to, ICTs in their learning; (b) improved
    students' ability to work and think independently and creatively; (c) introduced a revolutionary shift in
    secondary education from teacher-centered to student-centered teaching/learning methodology; (d)
    improved secondary teachers' ability to use ICTs in their classrooms; (e) improved secondary teachers
    ability to develop action-based curricula; (f) introduced effective applications of ICT to support
    student-centered teaching/learning; and (g) initiated active support of principals and school
    administrators as they sought to introduce student-centered teaching/learning approaches.

    Although the MOE did not complete the procurement of computers for DGE schools using loan funds,
    most schools were able to procure, with their own funds, the needed computers to facilitate the
    application of ICT in teaching/learning. The MOE decision to not complete the procurement was due to
    economic and political concerns. As national elections were drawing near, MOE, functioning under an
    interim government, chose to become more risk adverse and to adopt a more cautious approach than
    usual to procurement of ICT equipment during that interim period. After the elections were conducted
    ICT procurement was again possible, but there was not enough time left in the project to complete the
    procurement plan. The Borrower continues to give priority to improvements in access and quality
    throughout the secondary education subsector and has continued to set aside investment capital for the
    procurement of ICT equipment. These findings were documented during Bank supervision missions
    and through the Final Project Implementation Report of DGE, dated August 5, 2005, and the
    Evaluation of DGE Project Schools, Final Report, (undated).

4.2 Outputs by components:
    ORIC

    Civil Works (US$ 27.50 million appraised, US$ 25.98 million disbursed). Civil works were
    successfully completed. These included the: (a) construction of 17 science centers; (b) renovation of all
    existing science workshops; and (c) upgrading of two computer laboratories in each RI. Each RI also
    built or renovated additional computer laboratories.

    Equipment (US$ 72.10 million appraised, US$ 44.50 million revised, 42.28 million disbursed). The
   science equipment and computers were procured for all the 17 RIs for: (a) core areas of
   teaching/learning in physics, chemistry, biology, biotechnology and environmental science; (b) the RIs'
   expanding research activities; and (c) strengthening the teaching/learning of mathematics. However, the
   equipment procured was about 70% of the original target, of which 85% was for teaching/learning, and
   20% for advanced research. With regard to (b) above, the original quantity and types of science
   equipment were reduced, following the Mid-Term Review (MTR), July-August 2000, which found that
   equipment procured under the first four ICBs was sufficient to support the current and planned levels
   of curricula, institutional development, management and research in the RIs. Thus, participation in
   ICB-5, relatively advanced science research equipment, was confined to the 7 RIs that had a
   demonstrated capacity for research. The total equipment component was reduced to about US$31.0
   million (54% reduction from original estimate of US$67.5 million). The MTR recommendation,
   accepted by the Government, was in line with ORIC's Master Plan and the reduction of the number of
   staff earmarked for overseas short-term training from 850 to 220. The reduction of advanced
   equipment did not materially affect the achievement of the core development objective, as the appraisal
   had, in retrospect, overestimated the amount and type of equipment required by all the RIs. The ORIC
   PIU was able to procure the equipment at prices 15%-20% lower than the appraisal estimate.




                                                     - 6 -

Institutional Development (US$ 11.40 million appraised, US$ 11.32 disbursed). RI institutional
capacity was significantly strengthened within all 17 RIs through staff development. The project
offered overseas fellowships and local in-service training to all project institutions. A total of 3,427
teaching staff, averaging 201 staff from each of the 17 RIs, participated in these programs. Of these,
2, 967 teachers (54% female) participated in in-service programs (157% of target), and 217 teachers
(43% female) participated in overseas fellowships for Ph.D. and Masters degrees (about 98% of MTR
revised target). These outputs resulted in a significant increase in RI capacity to offer more quantity
and variety of instructional programming, with higher levels of quality, in the respective institutions,
and provided increased levels of technical assistance to mathematics and science teachers at the
secondary education level. As presented in more detail below, these inputs resulted in significantly
improved instructional quality and in more, and varied course offerings. The evaluations also
documented trends toward increasing enrolments in the targeted programs of instruction. The
investments in RI staff development also made it possible to realize an increased capacity in provide
research and technical services, a mandated responsibility of all RIs.

Secondary Education (US$ 11.00 million appraised, US$ 5.90 million revised, US$ 3.19 million
disbursed). ORIC, through the project's in-service training program to support secondary education,
trained 21,925 secondary school teachers (115% of the planned target). The target of 19,040 was
based on the expectation that 280 RI teachers from each of the 17 RIs would spend 10 days each year,
over the next 4-years, to visit and train teachers in secondary schools. As a result of this effort,
secondary schools will be able to offer a broad ranged of improved courses in mathematics and science.
Furthermore, each of these teachers now have access to the use of ICTs and other forms of upgraded
curricula and instructional materials to support their respective courses of instruction.

Research and Technical Service Projects (US$ 6.10 million appraised, US$ 4.19 million disbursed).
As the project provided for upgraded science laboratory and workshop facilities and equipment, and
better qualified staff, the project institutions (RIs) evolved, as planned, into multi-function institutions
with university status. With this new status, the RIs were expected to place more emphasis on research
and community service. To develop this capacity, the project supported: (a) 299 research projects
(100% of the research grants awarded, or 176% of the original target) in science and mathematics
education, industrial technology, health, agriculture and the environment; (b) 439 technical service
projects (162% of the planned target) to support local community development; and (c) the
development of about 168 instructional modules (168% of planned target) for teaching/learning
science/ technology and other subjects.

Project Management and Monitoring & Evaluation (US$ 0.80 million appraised, US$ 3.02 million
disbursed) . There were limited disbursements during the first two years. This resulted in early delays
in setting up the ORIC PIU, appointing staff and providing office facilities, and difficulties in securing
Government operational budgets. These budgets were delayed by the 1997/98 financial crisis, and
subsequent changes in Government policy regarding the use of government funds for overseas staff
training. Once the PIU was established and operational, it was able to effectively implement the
project, provide support for the Secretariat of the Project Steering Committee in MOE, and set up,
albeit late, a central M&E system while providing some guidance to 17 RIs as they sought to monitor
and evaluate project implementation at the institutional level. Although the M&E system was
developed and implemented as planned, there is a continued lack of satisfactory data on student
enrolments and graduates. This suggests that the M&E data collection (including data organization
and analysis) modules need some refinement at the national and institutional levels.




                                                   - 7 -

ONPEC

Equipment (US$ 4.43 million appraised, US$ 3.76 million disbursed). Each of 150 project lower
secondary schools were supplied with LAN servers, differential sets of computers and peripherals. The
amount of equipment allocated to each school was based on school size. With this equipment each of
the project schools established computer classroom with network and Internet capability. These
schools were also able to utilize the provided equipment to integrate the use of ICTs into the
curriculum. It is noted that some schools have found that access to, and use of the Internet, remains
limited due to slow Internet speeds. As Internet speeds increase through increased funding from the
MOE, it is expected that this system will become more effective and will provide students with
increased access to innovative curriculum and resources materials. It will also provide the teacher with
more pedagogical options through which to teach their respective courses. Finally it is expected that
computer literacy will increase as more secondary students gain access to the use of ICTs in education.

Expert Services (US$ 0.54 million appraised, US$ 0.18 million disbursed). Three specialists were
provided to support the planning, implementation, and coordination of equipment procurement, staff
training, and project monitoring and evaluation. In this effort, emphasis was placed on the areas of
procurement planning and coordination, staff training, and monitoring and evaluation. Five expert
teams were also provided to plan and implement training for teachers of science, mathematics, English
and computer education in the project's five geographical areas. The training included the
configuration and operation of ICT networks and digital libraries, and lesson planning that
incorporated computer hyperlinks and instructional software as a tool for teaching/learning in the four
subject areas. The outcomes from this investment can not be measured directly, but can be seen in the
effectiveness of the project's other outcomes, namely the improvement of curriculum and pedagogical
practices in mathematics, science and English, and the establishment of computer education and ICT
capacity in 150 lower secondary schools. MOE has stated that the results from the project evaluations
point toward the need for nation-wide replication of this approach in the subsector.

Staff Development/Training (US$ 2.86 million appraised, US$ 2.24 million disbursed). The project
provided general training for 899 teachers and 168 Educational Service Area (ESA) supervisors
(about 104% of target) in Logical Framework, strategies for educational planning, and learner-centered
approaches to classroom teaching. Enhanced training was also provided to 450 selected teachers
(100% of target) in the subject areas of computer, mathematics, and science education, and 43
administrators/supervisors (100% of target) in the implementation and maintenance of school-based
ICT systems. This effort was a key factor in MOE's plan to place more emphasis on improvements in
the quality of and the variety of course offerings in these subject areas. Early on, before the project
was implemented, it had been determined that such reforms could not take place without these inputs.
The success of this activity provides the foundation of teacher skills and knowledge necessary to
support large-scale replication of these reforms as government resources become available (Final
Project Implementation Completion Report for ONPEC, dated September 7, 2005).

Development of Learning Networks. The ICT development team was not successful in planned
establishment of a digital library, and likewise, was not successful in the development and provision of
samples of instructional materials to project schools. The primary reason was the ineffectiveness of the
selected contractor. As it became apparent that the contractor would not be able to deliver the required
services, it was recognized that there was a lack of time left in the project to seek another contractor.
Working with the ONPEC project institutions, the MOE was able to utilize other approaches to gain
access to electronic materials. These approaches consisted primarily of local procurement of


                                                  - 8 -

commercially available materials. They were also able to apply varying degrees of ICT integration to
teaching/learning in science, mathematics, English, and computer education. Although the MOE and
the participating institutions should be commended for their ability to partially recover, the ineffective
implementation of this activity must be considered a shortcoming of the project.

Project Management The project provided training for PIU staff in project management, including
planning project implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and best practices of teaching/learning in
science, mathematics, English and computer education to strengthen general oversight of academic
management. This training enabled the PIU to effectively manage the project's implementation, and to
effectively support the content-related activities that were implemented in the project schools. The
Microsoft Project program provided the PIU staff with the framework for project planning,
management and implementation of ICT related activities in the sector. This critical capacity did not
previously exist in the PIU, and, for that matter, is still limited in the MOE.

Project Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 0.29 million appraised, US$ 0.22 million disbursed). The
project supported experts' services to monitor and evaluate ONPEC project activities. The final
reports of the monitoring and evaluation experts paid special attention to teachers' computer
competencies; teachers' effectiveness of teaching the four subject areas; integration of ICT with the
teaching/learning and assessment of student learning in science, mathematics, English and computer
education; and the computer skills of students (Annex 7).

DGE

Facilities and Equipment (US$ 19.29 million appraised, US$ 12.28 disbursed). As planned, the
project renovated 480 science laboratories (100% of target) and established 80 SEARs (100% of
target) and 80 SMLCs (100% of target) in the 80 project schools, and provided them with 28,180
pieces of equipment and instructional materials (about 100% of target). It was found that the DGE
experienced some delays in procurement and disbursement, which were caused by differences between
the Bank's procurement guidelines and the Government's procurement regulations. These differences
were reconciled over time through discussions with the Bank supervision missions. The established
facilities provided the necessary infrastructure to support the requirements of the DGE as it sought to
implement the first stage of a national plan to enhance the quality instruction and variety of offerings in
mathematics, science, and English subjects. Parallel to this effort, local and government resources
provided for the establishment of ICT capacity in those schools. This enabled the target schools to
incorporate the use of computers to enhance the teaching of core courses, mathematics, science and
English.

Staff Development (US$ 1.17 million appraised, US$ 0.94 million disbursed). The project provided
training for project teachers, key teachers, administrators and PIU staff in Logical Framework strategy,
project and school management, management of the self-access centers, teaching techniques and
learning processes in science and mathematics, use of instructional materials, and monitoring and
evaluation. A total of 3,439 staff (99.5% of target) were trained, including 1,745 teachers (65% were
female), 260 key teachers (52% female) and 1,434 administrators and PIU staff (47% female). As in
the case of the staff training for ONPEC, the success of this activity provides the foundation of teacher
skills and knowledge necessary to support large-scale replication of these reforms as resources can be
made available (Final Project Implementation Completion Report for DGE, dated August 5, 2005).

Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 0.29 million appraised, US$ 0.22 million disbursed). The PIU team
was provided with short term, overseas training, in England, to study effective M&E approaches used


                                                  - 9 -

    in that country at the secondary level. This training was further supplemented by in-country seminars
    to review administrative structures/ processes for effective administration of M&E programs and best
    practices for staff development. This training resulted in the establishment of improved M&E capacity
    within the PIU and the improvement of staff training programs designed for project teachers, key
    teachers and administrators of the project institutions under DGE (Evaluation of DGE Project
    Schools, Undated, and Final Project Implementation Completion Report for DGE, dated August 5,
    2005).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
     Not applicable.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
     Not applicable.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
    The project's institutional development impact was rated as substantial. The key project activities
    provided a catalyst for the effective introduction of student-centered teaching methodologies supported
    by a change in curriculum/instructional materials development to allow for active learning within each
    program. Both of these education reforms have been proven to enhance student learning outcomes.
    The lessons learned from the pilot schools (150 ONPEC and 80 DGE) have been recognized and
    refined, and will be applied nationwide in support of the educational reforms mandated by the 1999
    Education Act. Although, as in all education projects, early measurements of impact are difficult, a
    number of impact measurements have already become apparent. The following provides a brief
    overview:

    ORIC. The project supported a significant upgrade in the academic and professional qualifications of
    the RI faculties at the 17 project institutions. By August 2005, 243 fellowship graduates had returned
    to participate in the upgrading of their respective institutions. This in turn, allowed the project RIs to
    upgrade its function at a level expected of a tri-focused university system (teaching, research, and
    community service) and to meet the quality and service requirements of the Government. The RIs were
    also able to effectively increase their capacity to offer advisory services, curriculum development and
    staff training to secondary schools. Of particular importance, during the project, this effort resulted in a
    trickle down effect as the RIs provided technical assistance to secondary schools to improve the quality
    of instructional services, particularly in their programs offering mathematics, science and English
    instruction. ORIC evaluations indicate that, within the secondary schools served by this process, there
    were significant increases in instructional quality, access to ICTs, computer literacy, and the variety of
    program offerings offered. (Final Evaluation Report for ORIC, dated September 29, 2005, and
    various summaries of baseline data studies, school visits and progress reports (Annex 7). The RIs were
    also able to significantly increase their capacity to carry out problem-based research to support
    community development. The results from this research will be shared with the society, and will
    almost certainly lead to improvements in community infrastructure, productivity, and services. There
    was also a positive trend toward increasing grade point averages (GPA) in all of the project
    institutions, see Final Evaluation Report of ORIC, dated September 29, 2005). As there is strong
    demand for these graduates and the RI system produces large numbers each year, it may be assumed
    that the increase of quality will contribute to increases in productivity in the public and private sector
    where those students will seek employment.

    ONPEC. In the 150 ONPEC project schools, several assessments of project impact (Final Project
    Implementation Completion Report, dated September 7, 2005 and , ONPEC Progress Report, 2002



                                                       - 10 -

   and others in Annex 7) indicated that: (a) at least 50% of the core subject teachers in the project
   schools have developed an ability to use computers in their teaching; (b) at least 50% of the computer
   education teachers are now able to maintain and efficiently use computer labs to support the education
   goals of the schools; (c) at least 50% of the students in each of the project schools are now able to
   utilize computers to access information and to support their learning in mathematics, science and
   English language subjects; (d) at least 50% of the teachers can now teach students to use the computer
   to prepare student reports, homework, and to make basic presentation; (e) at least 80% of the project
   schools' teachers, after in-service training, have moved to modify their pedagogical approach to use
   student-centered methods. Recent field studies have found that 100% of the teachers in a sample of 32
   project schools are now using student-centered approaches (see reports from M&E consultant team);
   (f) at least 80% of the project school teachers have, after in-service training, been able to convert their
   instructional materials to support the required active learning approach recently adopted by MOE.
    Recent field studies using a sample of 40 project schools found almost 100% compliance with this
    change requirement (see reports from M&E consultants) and (g) principals and supervisors, after
    exposure to new methods of teaching/learning and school planning and administration, have become
    more proactive in their management and instructional leadership to support the use of student centered
    pedagogical approaches, active learning based instructional materials and the introduction of ICT in
    their respective institutions. Most important, the project schools have seen a steady increase in student
    grade point averages (GPA) each year from 2001 through 2004. This finding gains credence when it is
    coupled with similar findings in the DGE schools.

    DGE. Impact assessment findings in the DGE schools revealed that: (a) students' learning skills
    improved with their ability to apply ICT to learning science, mathematics, English and computer
    education; (b) students' grade point average (GPA) improved on the average, in all subjects, from 2001
    ­ 2004. The schools witnessed increases, between 2001 and 2004, in: (i) English ­ 2.13 to 2.8; (ii)
    mathematics - 1.63 to 2.28; (iii) chemistry ­ 1.88 to 2.74; (iv) biology ­ 2.10 to 2.81; and (v) physics ­
    1.50 to 2.48; (c) Students became more independent and creative in their learning, aided by the
    facilities provided by SEARs and SMLCs; (d) teachers became more skilled in use of computer-based
    and student-centered teaching techniques, and were are now serving as models to neighbouring,
    non-project, schools; (e) project schools are now opening their doors to the local community to share
    the benefits of the new equipment and SEARs (DGE SEQI Impact Study, 2005).


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    The 1997 East Asia financial crisis had a negative impact on the original (ORIC) project. In reaction
    to this crisis, Government budget cuts and a temporary freeze on overseas training (January 1998)
    adversely affected overseas fellowships and overseas in-service training. This can be seen in the
    reduction by 75% of the number of staff sent for short-term overseas training and reduction of advance
    science equipment procured. Budget cuts also served to delay the recruitment of PIU staff and the
    provision of adequate office space for that unit. These staff shortages also led to a delay in the
    establishment of the M&E system at the central and institutional levels. Project construction was also
    affected by the crisis. Several contractors had financial problems, that may have been due to the crisis,
    and could not proceed with their contracts (science laboratories). This resulted in a need to rebid some
    of contracts and thus, delays were experienced in those contract completions. Fortunately, the
    government weathered the financial crisis sufficiently well for the local project funding to resume, thus
    enabling implementation to regain momentum from 1999. It should be noted other factors also
    contributed to some of above shortcomings (see section 5.2).




                                                     - 11 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    Project management suffered from frequent changes in project managers. Four managers were
    appointed during a five-year period, resulting in a lack of management continuity during project
    implementation. Project implementation was further hampered by the ORIC PIU sub-units being
    scattered on three floors of two buildings.

    When the ONPEC and DGE components were added, initially, their PIUs were inadequately staffed.
    The early effectiveness of these units was also affected by a lengthy debate on decentralization of
    procurement responsibility and the frequent reshuffling of senior decision-making officials. As a result,
    ONPEC and DGE suffered from varying degrees of implementation delays during the first two years of
    the project.

    In October 2003, the a reorganization of the MOE resulted in ONPEC and DGE being merged under
    the Office of Basic Education Commission (OBEC), headed by the Secretary-General. The
    administrative reshuffling process further interrupted project implementation, with the resultant delays
    extending through mid-2004.

    Delays were also experienced in procurement and disbursements. These delays were caused, partly, by
    differences between the Bank's and the Government's regulations which took some time to resolve,
    and, partly, by the PIU where most of the staff lacked a clear understanding of the Bank's procurement
    and disbursement guidelines.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    As in the case of the senior managers, there were also frequent changes in key staff positions. These
    changes contributed to project implementation delays. In ORIC, the frequent staff changes from project
    start through early 2003 hampered the development of the capabilities of the respective M&E units,
    resulting in incomplete monitoring of key performance indicators and reporting on student enrolments
    and graduate outputs. In ONPEC and DGE, initial project implementation was handicapped by
    inexperienced, albeit well-qualified, staff. With the input of some training provided by Bank
    supervision mission staff, the M&E staff of the two PIUs quickly built up a range of computerized
    project monitoring and evaluation data. In the later part of the project, the two PIUs effectively utilized
    their various specialist consultant teams, including M&E teams, to carry out special staff training
    programs and evaluation of their respective project activities, which were successfully completed.


5.4 Costs and financing:
    The original loan amount was USD81.9 million. In 2000, the Ministry of Finance requested the Bank
    to reduce the loan amount to USD45.6 million to accord with the reduction in the amount of equipment
    to be purchased and the number of staff for overseas training (details given in para. 4.2, Outputs by
    Components). Of the USD36.3 million from the original ORIC component, USD5.64 million was
    reallocated to ONPEC and USD11.78 million to DGE, totalling USD17.42 million, and the remaining
    USD18.88 million was cancelled.

    As mentioned above a substantial delay was incurred in the project's procurement program. This was
    partly due to differences between the Bank and the Government as it relates to procurement
    requirements. Additional delays were incurred when the procurement of ICT equipment was delayed
    until there was a lack of time remaining in the project. Those funds remain undisbursed. Overall
    disbursement was USD51.08 million or 81 percent of the revised total loan amount; ORIC, ONPEC
    and DGE disbursed 88, 72, and 58 percent of their respective loan amounts. Details on costs and
    financing are shown in Annex 2.


                                                    - 12 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
    The rating for sustainability is highly likely. The Bank has a substantial history of successful primary,
    secondary and higher education projects in Thailand. The Government has consistently sustained the
    benefits from these projects by follow-up investments of its own. The activities discussed below
   provide credible evidence that the Government will continue to maintain its commitments to support the
   outcomes of this project. It is noted that all project institutions and post- implementation completion
   project activities are fully funded by the national budget, and there in no indication that any of those
   budgets will be cutback in the foreseeable future.

   Government policy, pursuant to the 1999 Education Act, is firmly committed to the further
   development of the education sector. Under this Act, key reforms are intended to lead to a 12 years'
   basic education for all Thai citizens, with an emphasis on improving education quality and student
   learning achievement. Attainment of these reform goals over the next decade requires a steady increase
   in secondary school enrolments and improvement in teaching/learning quality in key curriculum areas,
   especially science, mathematics and English. The lessons and various spin-offs from the pilot 150
   ONPEC and 80 DGE schools are being applied throughout the secondary school system.

   Examples include the following: (a) MOE now gives strong priority to continuing improvements in
   quality throughout the secondary education subsector through the development of Laboratory Schools
   (Section 4.1); (b) the Project School Network, based on geographic location, established as a result of
    the teacher training activity under the project, will assist non-project school teachers in innovative
    teaching and learning development; (c) the master teachers in mathematics trained under the project are
    periodically used by the Institute for the Promotion of Science and Technology (IPST) to develop new
    curricula for training GSP, and to train mathematics teachers; (d) some DGE project schools have
    started to provide training in science and mathematics teaching techniques to other non-project lower
    and upper secondary schools; (e) the SEARs are being used to provide English language training to the
    general public (e.g. police officers, taxi drivers etc.) and school administrators; and (f) a 'Manual for
    Active learning,' which puts education reform into practice in the science classroom through utilization
    of advanced laboratory equipment purchased under the project, will enable science teachers to design
    and carry out science experiments more effectively.

    Similarly, the RIs, which have evolved into full-fledged universities offering four-year science,
    technology and liberal arts programs, will serve as models for further development for the non-project
    institutions. The government has affirmed that education serves as the primary generator of trained
    manpower necessary to raise labor productivity and to strengthen Thailand's long-term competitiveness
    in an increasingly technology-intensive industrial environment. The momentum of change in education
    quality at the teacher education level and in the secondary schools initiated by the project is, therefore,
    highly likely to be sustained, and accelerated through the dissemination of the new student-centered
    teaching/learning methods throughout the system.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
    MOE/OBEC is guided by a formal process in managing the transition of project activities to regular
    operations. As all the project institutions under ORIC, ONPEC and DGE were established, on-going
    operating colleges and schools, there is a seamless `transition' from `project' to `regular' operations,
    with no break in the operating budget for these institutions which are funded by the central as well as
    local authorities.




                                                      - 13 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
    After 15 years of absence from Thailand, the Bank resumed lending for SEQI at the Government's
    request, not primarily for resource transfer, as Thailand's education sector has been relatively
    well-endowed, with education expenditures accounting for about 5 percent of GNP, compared with the
    East Asian average of 3.2 percent, but to ensure that priority needs were addressed through efficient
    resource targeting, a recognized benefit from strong Bank project designs.

    The identification/preparation mission assisted the Borrower to produce a broadly conceived, two stage
    investment proposal that featured carefully targetted activities to address key areas of institutional
    development in the RIs. The scope of the project was initially limited to ensure that the project would
    have maximum impact, and that it could be effectively managed by the selected PIU. The project
    design was supported by the inclusion of findings from an education sector study, which was carried
    out by the Bank, and issued in July 1999, as an ESSN. The ESSN articulated the Bank's assistance
    strategy for Thailand's education development. This strategy was carefully crafted to help move the
    Bank's lending, in education, toward a more dynamic partnership with the Government and other
    donors as they sought to support selected reforms, notably in secondary education. Key elements in
    this strategy included: (a) restructuring project supervision to improve results; (b) reallocating
    resources from slow-disbursing projects to finance pilots and preparation activities for future lending;
    and (c) lending to support selected aspects of national education reform.

    The envisaged second stage of SEQI was initiated when the decision was taken in January 2002 to
    amend the loan agreement to reduce the ORIC reallocation for research equipment, consultant services,
    and overseas staff training by US$17.42 million equivalent, and from this amount to reallocate
    US$11.78 million equivalent to DGE and US$5.64 million equivalent to ONPEC for their pilot
    projects. In effect, the pilot projects were `preparation activities' for the nationwide development
    providing 12 years of basic education to all Thai citizens. Lessons learned in these activities are
    currently being introduced in thoughout the sector. This lending effort has seen generally good results.
    Although there have been some difficult times, the Bank has been able to re-establish a lending
    relationship with the Borrower. The Bank has been able to provide inputs to policy reform in the
    sector. In the initial phases of project design and implementation, the Bank has been able to
    demonstrate significant flexibility and has sought to support the changing needs of the Borrower as
    economic and political realities became apparent.

    Based on the above findings, the Bank's lending performance is rated as satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
    Soon after project effectiveness in April 1997, and in the spirit of decentralization, supervision
    responsibilities were shifted to the Bank's Field Office in Bangkok to facilitate closer implementation
    monitoring and evaluation. Formal supervision took place every six months, with more frequent
    backup support and advice from Bank resident staff to the RIs' PIU.

    Unfortunately, this initial focus on quality supervision did not last. From 1998 through 2002, the level
    of supervision was not satisfactory, resulting in occasional miscommunications between the PIU and
    the Bank. This situation should have triggered management intervention and a more intense
    supervision effort. This did not happen and as a result, a number of implementation problems emerged,
    and there was a significant decline in the quality of working relationships and communication between
    the Bank and Borrower that affected the overall implementation of the project.



                                                      - 14 -

    During the last years of the project, the Bank clearly recognized the above mentioned shortcomings and
    committed strong teams and significant resources to improve supervision services to the project. In
    early 2003, a more experienced task manager was assigned, and formal supervision activities were
    re-established on a regular schedule. Subsequent project supervision reviews took place approximately
    every six months. As ORIC had completed most of its project activities, except M&E and the overseas
    fellowships, the new task team focused most of its attention on ONPEC and DGE. Working with these
    PIUs, the task team was able to systematically identify implementation issues, especially in equipment
    procurement, and collaboratively find ways to address them. It is noted that, duirng this period, the
    supervision team should be commended for its efforts to seek dialogue and mutual understandings with
    the Government. These combined efforts, on the part of the Governnment and the Bank, led to a
    satisfactory implementation of the project.

    Although the above mentioned concerns were eventually addressed by Bank management, the period of
    supervision inadequacy was too long and it should have been addressed much earlier. For this reason,
    Bank supervision performance must be rated unsatisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    Although the identification, preparation, pre-appraisal, and appraisal missions were appropriately
    staffed, well managed and effective, the Bank appears to have under-estimated the implementation
    challenges, particularly in regard to staffing and procurement. Project negotiations and implementation
    were also well planned and managed.

    Regarding Bank supervision, there is reason to be concerned about the decline in the level and quality
    of services provided from 1998 through 2002. This was unfortunate and was due primarily to
    supervision issues discussed above, coupled with a seeming lapse in management oversight during that
    period (1998 through 2002). It was found that the Bank and the Borrower were able to overcome most,
    but not all of the problems that may have been contributed to by the inadequate Bank support provided
    during this period. Evidence (Bank documentation) suggests that after 2002, supervision teams were
    able to support adjustments to the project as the Borrower moved to cope with the financial crisis, and
    later to effectively support partial cancellation of the loan amount and the reallocation of the remaining
    loan to finance the ONPEC and DGE sub-projects (also terrmed pilot projects in some documents). It
    is noted that the above findings reflect important lessons that should be learned regarding the selection
    of projects for field-based supervision and the management/staff of supervision teams both in the field
    and at headquarters. The Bank's overall performance must be rated as unsatisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    In late 1993, the Government requested the Bank to consider possible assistance for an education
    project. The Bank responded by jointly identifying with the Government a project that would assist in
    strengthening teacher education in science and mathematics. It was planned that these improvements in
    teacher education would be the foundation upon which additional investments could be made to
    improve the quality of instruction at the secondary level. The Government had completed most of the
    preparatory work following Bank guidelines. As the teacher education component was more advanced
    in preparation than the schools component, it was decided to appraise it as a separate project. Thus,
    the original SEQI project was designed as a first stage investment. Later, when funds became available
    in the project, it was decided to incorporate the second planned stage of investments (ONPEC and
    DGE) where the lessons learned from the first stage (RI) could be incorporated into secondary
    education to improve core subjects (with emphasis being placed on mathematics, science, English and



                                                      - 15 -

    computer education). The Government was effective in providing an active counterpart team to work
    with the Bank during project preparation. Senior policy specialists from the MOE were also active in
    the discussions leading up to the agreement on the final project design. Finally, MOE was effective in
    its allocation of resources to support the preparation effort.

    Based on the above findings, the Government's performance during project preparation is rated as
    satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    The Government was, and continues to be, firmly committed to the development of the education
    sector. The objectives of the project had a high priority in the sector and were thus supported by MOE
    in terms of broad policy objectives, with responsibility for planning and executing project
    implementation activities delegated to ORIC, ONPEC and DGE. Counterpart funds have been
    adequate for the project, except during the brief 1997/98 financial crisis period. The Borrower
    remained in full compliance with all loan covenants. All audit reports have been submitted without
    negative comments. With regard to the provision of computers to DGE schools (see Section 4.1), more
    decisive support from MOE would have increased the benefits to the project schools.

    The Government's performance during project implementation is rated as satisfactory. This rating is
    based on the finding that the Government was able to establish effective PIUs and that these PIUs were
    able to meet or exceeded the primary project objectives, while at the same time keeping the costs within
    the allocated budget. To support these PIUs, the Government provided resources and management
    support. It is noted that this level of effectiveness was accomplished during a economic crisis, a
    significant change in the Government, and during a period when Bank supervision support was limited.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
    Each of the PIUs of ORIC, ONPEC and DGE worked independently. With the exceptions discussed
    below, all of the PIUs were able to meet, or exceed, the planned objectives of the project. The PIUs
    were initially handicapped by the lack of staff with Bank project implementation experience, but the
    staffs were otherwise well-qualified. Facing this difficulties, the PIUs were still able to move the
    project along to a successful conclusion. There was a lack of PIU experience in project implementation
    that had some initial effect of the project. This was understandable as the SEQI project was the first
    Bank investment in Thailand after a long break in lending. This lack of experience largely explains the
    inadequate attention given by the ORIC PIU to establishing an effective central M&E system that
    could be replicated at each of the project RIs. The M&E system was finally articulated in late 2002
    through a master plan, but it was too late to be of practical help to the RIs. On the other hand, the
    ONPEC and DGE M&E units, with initial slow startups, quickly become functionally effective,
    following informal on-site training in early 2003 by the M&E consultant.

    Based on the above findings, the rating of the implementing agencies' performance is satisfactory, but
    it is noted that there are significant lessons that should be learned from the experiences of these PIUs.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    Overall the Borrower's performance was rated as satisfactory.




                                                       - 16 -

8. Lessons Learned

   Key lessons learned from the project are as follows:


   Bank Supervision


   1. Project implementation can be negatively effected if Bank supervision is not maintained in a timely
   and consistent manner. (Section 7.2)


   2. Effective Bank supervision requires the employment of experienced task managers coupled with
   adequate staffing on the ground. (Section 7.2)


   3. In order to ensure that supervision problems are quickly identified and addressed before they affect
   project implementation, the supervision team should be supported by a well informed, proactive
   management structure. Of particular importance is the role of the Country Operations Manager, with
   front-line responsibilty for service quality. (Section 7.2)


   4. The use of regularly scheduled portfolio reviews should provide for increased quality control of
   Bank supervision activities. (Section 7.2)


   5. An extended team of project implementation specialists (procurement, financial management, ICT
   development, etc.) should be made available to support the task manager when supervision problems
   are identified and require resolution. (Section 7.2)


   Project Design and Management

   6. The establishment at the start of project implementation of an effective PIU with adequate numbers
       of qualified staff experienced in supervising civil works, equipment procurement, staff training,
       financial management, and monitoring and evaluation is a prerequisite for timely planning,
       implementation, monitoring and evaluation of project activities. (Section 5.1, 7.6)

   7. The project manager should be appointed for the duration of the project to ensure management
       continuity and be involved in the project design, staff appointments and initial training of project
       staff. (Section 5.2, 5.3)

   8. Positive and consistent support for the PIU from top-level MOE officials is essential to timely
       implementation of project activities to meet project objectives. (Section 5.2, 5.3)

   9. The training in logical framework strategies provided by DGE and ONPEC at the start of their
       respective projects set an effective guideline for the purposeful participation of Educational Service
       Areas (ESAs), project institution coordinators and teachers in project implementation, and this
       contributed towards successful project completion. (Section 4.2, ONPEC and DGE Staff
       Development, pp. 11 & 13)




                                                    - 17 -

10. The establishment and operation of an effective monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system at the
    start of project implementation is essential to timely addressing and resolution of implementation
    issues and accurate progress reporting on quantitative and qualitative achievements covering a
    variety of project activities implemented at widely dispersed sites. (Section 7.6)

Staff Development

11. Criteria for selecting candidates for overseas fellowships and short-term training should be adapted
    to the specific needs of a project by custom-designing the selection criteria for academically
    qualified and experienced staff members who might not have the civil service standard of English
    proficiency, and by providing translations at training courses in science research and use of
    advanced equipment. (Section 4.2, Table 1, ORIC staff development program and footnote, p.10)

12. ONPEC's experience with the ICT consultant team showed that special care should be taken to
    ensure that the local provider does not infringe on international copyright laws. The consultant
    team's oversight in this regard resulted in the failure to install the much-anticipated digital library
    and this aborted the introduction of e-learning in the project schools. Generally, however, the
    employment of Thai-national consulting teams involving local university personnel for training
    staff in the integration of ICT with the curriculum and instructional materials preparation produced
    greater benefits to the project than the employment of international experts who often could not
    accurately tailor the training methods and activities to local needs could not provide follow-up
    support because they did not have a local institutional base. (Section. 4.2, ONPEC Development of
    Learning Networks, p. 13)


13. Delays in procurement and disbursement were caused by differences between the Bank's and the
    Government's regulations. Under such circumstances, the Government should provide clear
    guidelines to resolve these conflicts, and key project staff should be trained to implement the
    guidelines. (Section 4.1 & 5.2)

Instructional Reform

14. Effective institutional reform may be effectively implemented through the use of vertical
    integration between institutions (e.g. universities, secondary schools) within a single subsector.
    For instance, reforms in pedagogy and curriculum may be initially developed within teacher
    education institutions with existing research capacity and well trained teaching specialists in the
    targetted academic disciplines. Using the lessons learned from these higher education reforms, the
    teacher training institutions can then not only train teachers, but also offer broad range technical
    assistance to school administrators to support the planning, development and implementation of
    secondary reforms required to improve instructional quality, curricula and instructional materials.
    (Section 4.2)

15. Education reforms to shift in secondary education from teacher-centered to student-centered
    teaching/learning methodology, has been shown to: (a) improve student learning and student
    retention; and (b) improve secondary teachers' ability/opportunity to use ICTs in their classrooms.
    (Section 4.2)




                                                 - 18 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
      The project was implemented by three separate PIUs. There were several reasons for this
      arrangement. Initially the project was solely focused on the provision of services to the ORIC, so the
      first PIU was staffed to support the higher education requirements of the RIs. Later, the components
      for ONPEC and DGE were added and these were solely focused on secondary education. At this
      time, the Government, supported by Bank agreement, decided that each component should have
      separate PIUs that would be staffed with personnel who knew their respective target institutions, and
      systems of instruction supported by the project. It was felt that this approach would provid for more
      efficient project implementation. It also made the administration of the PIU staff and budget easier to
      manage. As the project drew near to completion, the PIUs decided to submit separate inputs to this
      section as they felt that they had had differing experiences with the project and the Bank, and, for
      these reasons, they had might want differing opinions and comments. The Bank team agreed with
      this approach as it would likely provide for a fair, precise and discriminating input from the
      Government. These comments may be found in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                      1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
ORIC
Major Goal: Improve the quality of secondary
education in science and mathematics
through the strengthening of teacher
education in these subjects.
Objective 1. Raise the qualifications of
teaching staff in selected Rajabhat Institutes
(RIs, teacher colleges) and enhance their
understanding of modern teacher education
techniques.
Outcome Indicators:
1.1 The graduates of the RIs will              The quality of RI graduates is reflected in:     Examination data on the latest graduates
demonstrate on an examination prepared by      (a)    their high-level skills in laboratory     comparing 1997 graduate examinations (as
the respective RIs, that they have, on the     equipment usage;                                 baseline) were not available.
average, raised their level of skills and      (b)    ability to serve as teaching assistants to
knowledge by at least 20% by the Impact        their lecturers in instructing 1st, 2nd and 3rd
Year.                                          year students;
                                               (c)    their service as resource persons in
                                               equipment usage training for secondary
                                               school teachers; and
                                               (d)    the increase in the number of science
                                               and applied science graduates who are
                                               accepted by various universities for higher
                                               degree studies.
1.2 All fellows have received degrees and      All 143 in-country and overseas fellows          By August 2005, 243 had graduated and
100% have returned to teach in their           completed their Master's Degree programs         returned to teach in their respective
respective RIs.                                by 2004 and returned to their respective RIs     institutions.
                                               to teach. Of the 100 staff on Ph.D.
                                               programs, 62 who graduated in 2004 are           In the Ph.D. program, two in-country
                                               teaching in their respective RIs.                candidates will graduate at the end of 2005,
                                                                                                and among the 23 overseas candidates, 20
                                                                                                are expected to graduate at the end of 2005,
                                                                                                and 3 in 2006. On completion of this
                                                                                                program, the RI academic staff strength (in
                                                                                                terms of higher degree qualifications) will
                                                                                                have increased by more than 100%.
Objective 2. Reinforce quality improvement
in the RIs through modernizing science
laboratories and workshops with up-to-date
equipment, expanding laboratory space and
refurnishing workshops.
Outcome Indicators:
2.1 By the ICR year, all participating         In the 17 project RIs,                           About 49.90% of the loan allocation for
institutions will have upgraded and equipped (a)      construction was completed for 17         equipment was disbursed. The equipment
a sufficient number and types of laboratories Science Centers, including air-conditioned        categories and quantities were adjusted by
and workshops required to meet the standard conference rooms appropriately equipped;            agreement between the Bank and the
requirements of the documented curricula.      (b)    all the existing science workshops have Borrower. The adjustment was due, in part,
                                               been renovated and appropriately equipped;       to the reduction in the number of staff for
                                               (c)    70% of the planned procurement of         short-term overseas training following the
                                               science equipment for teaching/learning and Mid-Term Review.
                                               research was executed and delivered,
                                               comprising 85% of the originally proposed
                                               teaching/learning equipment and 20% of the
                                               advanced research equipment.
Objective 3. Expand the capacity of the RIs
to carry out inservice training of secondary
teachers.
Outcome Indicator:
3.1 In courses where the teachers have         All inservice course s were completed by
been given significant quantities of inservice 2004. The overseas and in-country staff
training over the duration of the project, the training focused on increasing and updating
graduates from those courses will              knowledge in mathematics and science




                                                                    - 20 -

demonstrate on a test developed by the         (physics, chemistry and biology) as well as
respective institutions, by the ICR year, that teaching methology, with greater emphasis
they have increased their skills and           on student-centered and laboratory-practice
knowledge by an average of at least 15%.       approach. Staff who were trained overseas
                                               returned with up-to-date knowledge in their
                                               specializations as well as practical laboratory
                                               management skills and the work culture of
                                               their host professors, with whom they have
                                               built up academic and professional networks.
                                               The greatly improved physical amenities,
                                               laboratory equipment and teaching facilities
                                               have raised the RI staff confidence in
                                               teaching and research. Their enhanced
                                               knowledge and skills are reflected in the wide
                                               range of research projects undertaken and
                                               completed, as well as the increasing
                                               numbers of RI graduates proceeding to
                                               higher degree studies in local and foreign
                                               universities.
Objective 4. Enhance the RIs capacity to
undertake research and provide technical
services to the community.
Outcome Indicator:
4.1 The research supported by the project      The RIs developed a total of 168 learning
would produce at least 100 documented          modules, 68% over the target of 100, to
improvements in services offered by the RIs    support innovations in teaching/learning,
to students and to the community.              focusing on student-centered approaches, in
                                               secondary schools as reinforcement of the
                                               inservice training of secondary school
                                               teachers.
ONPEC                                          Based on preliminary data in 2004 from the     The information for this section is derived
Objective. To improve quality in science,      M&E study by the M&E consultant team:          from the report by Dr. Nopadol Chenaksara,
mathematics, English and computer                                                             submitted in August 2005. (include Dr.
learning/teaching in 150 junior secondary                                                     Samarn's report when found).
schools through integration of ICT.
Outcome Indicators
By end-of-project:

  1. At least 50% of subject teachers are      At least 50% of teachers could use             The final M&E report submitted in August
able to use computers in teaching their        computers in subject teaching.                 2005 stated that,
subjects.
2. At least 50% of teachers are able to teach At least 50% of teachers could use              - Teachers who had undergone training used
math, science, English and computer through computers to teach math, science, English         computers more frequently and apply ICT in
student-centered approach.                     and computer education through a               their teaching.
                                               student-centered approach.
3.   At least 50% of students are able to      At least 50% of students could use the          - All project schools have 20-40 computers,
search for    information and present their    computer to access information and to          compared with only one before the project,
learning of math, science and English          present their learning in math, science and    implying that more students have access to
language subjects using computers.             English language subjects.                     information on mathematics, science and
                                                                                              English.
4.   At least 50% of computer teachers are     At least 50% of computer education teachers - Most computer education teachers who
able to maintain their computer labs.          are able to maintain their computer labs.      were trained under the project are able to
                                                                                              maintain there computer labs.
5.   At least 50% of computer teachers are     At least 50% of teachers were able to teach    - Most teachers who were trained under the
able to teach students to write reports and    students to use computers to prepare           project are able to teach students to use
make basic presentation using computers.       reports and make basic presentations.          computers to prepare reports and make basic
                                                                                              presentations.
6. Every school will have a designated         In July, 2004, all 150 project schools were    - In July, 2004, all 150 project schools were
computer room with adequate accessories        equipped with computers and accessories        equipped with computers and accessories
and 150 LAN systems.                           and 150 LAN system.                            and 150 LAN system.
DGE                                            Information on students' GPA was collected     Data were collected and analyzed (see
Objective 1. To improve science,               in 2002, 2003 and 2004. The results of the     below).
mathematics and English instruction in 80      analysis are expected in June, 2005.
upper secondary schools.
Outcome Indicators
Students
1. Students' grade point average in math,                                                     Student grade point average (GPA) improved
physics, chemistry, biology and English in                                                    in all subjects from 2001 ­ 2004 with varying




                                                                   - 21 -

semester 1/2004 is increased compared to                                                  degrees of improvement among subjects.
semester 1/2003 and semester 2/2004 is                                                    Table 5 in ICR text provides details.
increased compared to semester 2/2003.
 Teachers
                                                                                           The information for this section is derived
A. After Module 2 training:                                                               from the Evaluation Report on DGE school
                                                                                          by Dr. Suwaporn Semheng and team,
                                                                                          submitted in August 2005.
  1. All teachers are able to use existing                                                All teachers who received training from the
basic equipment in teaching.                                                              project are able to use existing basic
                                                                                          equipment for teaching.
 2. All teachers understand how to use                                                    All teachers who received training from the
advanced equipment to improve their                                                       project are able to improve their teaching
teaching on a good level.                                                                 skills and utilize modern equipment and ICT
                                                                                          for teaching.
3. All teachers use all equipment in                                                      Many teachers for both English and science,
student-centered teaching/learning activities                                             who received training from the project, are
on a good level.                                                                          able to develop student-centered teaching
                                                                                          scheme using the methods obtained from the
                                                                                          training as guidance. However, they are
                                                                                          unable to use teaching evaluation result to
                                                                                          improve the students' knowledge and skills
                                                                                          as targeted by the project because many of
                                                                                          the teaching activities did not utilize the
                                                                                          experimental materials and equipment as the
                                                                                          latter were not delivered in due time. Thus,
                                                                                          the teachers were unable to apply the training
                                                                                          methods to classroom teaching.
Teachers

B. After Module 3 training:                                                               The information for this section is derived
                                                                                          from the On-site Visit Report on "Developing
                                                                                          Teaching Techniques and Learning
                                                                                          Processes in Science: Module 3" dated
                                                                                          September 2004 by Sheffield Hallam
                                                                                          University.

1. [At least] 80% of teachers use             On-site visits to 32 schools by M&E         All teachers who received training under the
student-centered teaching/learning            consultant team found that science and math project embraced student-centered teaching
methodology.                                  teachers were using student-centered        and learning in their classroom practice. This
                                              teaching/learning methodology.              reflected a paradigm shift in teaching
                                                                                          methodology.

2. [At least] 80% of teachers appropriately   The M&E consultant team in Jan-Feb. 2005    Teachers produced high quality curriculum
and efficiently use innovative instructional  visited 40 schools to evaluate teachers     materials in their classroom practice and
materials in student-centered                 through observation, interviews,            effectively applied them to active
teaching/learning.                            questionnaires and measurement test.        student-centered teaching/ learning, which
                                              Another 40 schools were evaluated by        were assessed by the training provider to be
                                              questionnaires and measurement test only.   very good or outstanding.
Teachers

C. After training to use the Geometer's                                                   Eighty mathematics teachers from 80 project
Sketchpad program:                                                                        schools were provided training on
                                                                                          "Geometer's Sketchpad in Teaching and
1. All teachers are able to use the                                                       Learning Mathematics" by IPST and funded
Geometer's Sketchpad program in teaching.                                                 the RTG. The GSP software program turns
                                                                                          mathematics teaching from being abstract to
2. All teachers understand how to use the                                                 more concrete to make it more interesting
Geometer's Sketchpad program to improve                                                   and easier for students to understand.
their teaching on a good level.

Teachers

D. After the provision of teaching materials  The M&E consultant team in Jan-Feb. 2005    The RTG financed the provision of printed
and computer software:                        visited 40 schools to evaluate teachers     materials and software, which included
                                              through observation, interviews,            Master Logical Framework for schools to
1. [At least] 80% of teachers use the         questionnaires and measurement test.        develop their individual frameworks; manuals
teaching materials and software.              Another 40 schools were evaluated by        for the use of science labs, SEARs and




                                                                 - 22 -

                                               questionnaires and measurement test only. SMLCs; Materials for supporting SEARs;
2. [At least] 80% of teachers appropriate and                                            training package for training the trainers by
efficiently use the teaching materials and                                               using ATLAS (Active Teaching and Learning
software in student-centered                                                             Approaches in Science) teaching techniques.
teaching/learning.                                                                       No specific assessment was made on
                                                                                         teacher usage on these materials.
3. [At least] 80% of teachers understand
how to use the teaching materials and
software to improve their teaching on a good
level.
Objective 2: To upgrade science                                                          The upgrading of physical facilities using the
laboratories, the Science and Mathematics                                                RTG fund was completed in January 2002.
Learning Center (SMLC), and Student                                                      However, the procurement of computers
English Access Room (SEAR).                                                              which was scheduled to be completed in
                                                                                         December 2004 was never carried out.
                                                                                         Thus, the project schools' science lags,
                                                                                         SMLCs and SEARs were not provided with
                                                                                         computers under the project. However, most
                                                                                         of the schools since then have procured
                                                                                         computers with their own budgets.
Outcome Indicators

After the above facilities have been upgraded: Information on SEAR usage by students in  Student usage as specified under indicators
                                               the 2nd semester of 2004 was collected in 1,2 and 3 relating to SEARs, SMLCs and
1. All students use SEAR at least 20 times     December 2004, and Jan-Mar. 2005.         science labs assumed that the project would
per semester.                                                                            provide all necessary equipment requested,
                                                                                         including especially computers which were
2. All students in the science-math program                                              the main equipment required by SEARs and
use the science labs/SMLC in physics,                                                    SMLCs. But the non-procurement of
chemistry, biology and math at least 15 times                                            computers (referred to above) made it
per semester.                                                                            impossible to assess student usage of these
                                                                                         facilities.
3. All students (excluding all those in the
science-math program) use the science                                                    The M&E consultant team found that (1)
labs/math learning labs in math and                                                      student attitudes towards learning English
biology/physical science at least 8 times per                                            were good and moderately positive towards
semester.                                                                                science and mathematics; (2) attitudes
                                                                                         towards contents of the subject matter,
                                                                                         usefulness, and importance in science and
Average students' attitude test scores                                                   mathematics were positive; and (3) attitudes
towards physics, chemistry, biology,                                                     towards the subjects' educational activities in
mathematics and English are statistically                                                all subjects were moderately positive.
significantly increased in semester 1/2004
compared to semester 1/2003, and semester
2/2004 compared to semester 2/2003.
Objective 3. To develop and sustain project
achievement.

Outcome Indicators                                                                       The information for this section is derived
Administrators and School Key Personnel                                                  from the final report on "Developing
                                                                                         Leadership and Management Capabilities of
The participating school administrators and                                              School Administrators in Holistic Learning
key personnel after completing their training:                                           Development and Sustainability of the SEQI
                                                                                         Project", by Mark Windale and Niki Elliot,
                                                                                         Sheffield Hallam University.
1. will have an enhanced understanding in
SEQI project sustainability.                                                             The school administrators and key personnel
                                                                                         who were provided training affirmed that they
2. will have an enhanced understanding of                                                had gained knowledge and understanding of
their role in leading and facilitating school                                            structures, management teams and
improvement through their position as chief                                              leadership for a leaning environment.
executive officer.

3. Will have the skills to effectively support                                           They identified the responsibilities and
developments in curriculum and in teaching                                               training needs for curriculum managers.
and learning in their own and other schools to
facilitate holistic learning.




                                                                - 23 -

4. Will produce and begin the                                                                 They were able to draft whole school
implementation of an appropriate school                                                       strategic plans and confirmed they would be
improvement plan for holistic development.                                                    able to implement them.
PIU Team

The PIU team, on completion of their training,                                                The PIU team, which received training in
                                                                                              England, were able to identify priority areas
1. Will develop their knowledge and                                                           for strategic development. These included
understanding of strategies and frameworks                                                    (1) enhancing the capacity of the PIU team;
for monitoring and evaluating curriculum and                                                  (2) developing the relationship between the
pedagogical change and school                                                                 PIU and schools; (3) collecting and analyzing
improvement.                                                                                  school performance data; (4) developing the
                                                                                              role of school networks and sustaining them;
2. Will have enhanced their ability to play an                                                and (5) sustaining and developing
effective role in monitoring and evaluating                                                   professional development for teachers.
progress in school development.
                                                                                              The PIU submitted a plan to OBEC to
3. Will develop tools for monitoring and                                                      monitor and evaluate post-implementation
evaluating their implementation, and                                                          developments of project schools. OBEC is in
institutionalize and disseminate them.                                                        the process of reviewing the plan. However,
                                                                                              there is concern whether the necessary
4. Will have an action plan for monitoring and                                                budget and staff would be available.
evaluation of the SEQI project after the
project closing.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
ORIC
Objective 1.
1. From 17 supported project RIs, the          Based on selection criteria, 275 RI staff were By August 2005, 243 had graduated and
project will finance local and overseas        awarded Master's degree fellowships (90        returned to teach in their respective
fellowships for 125 Masters and 125 Ph.D.      in-country and 60 overseas), and Ph.D.         institutions.
students who will return as staff in the RIs.  program (60 in-country and 65 overseas).
                                                                                              In the Ph.D. program, two in-country
                                                                                              candidates will graduate at the end of 2005,
                                                                                              and among the 23 overseas candidates, 20
                                                                                              are expected to graduate at the end of 2005,
                                                                                              and 3 in 2006.
Objective 2.                                   The actual expenditure on equipment was        ORIC's completion report (undated)
Equipment valued at about US$65.5 million      US$42.28 million equivalent (US$28.75          explained that some of the ICB procurement
will be purchased according to an agreed       million under ICB; US$9.62 million under       was delayed partly by the PIU staff's lack of
upon schedule.                                 NCB; and US43.91 million under other           experience in procurement procedures, and
                                               procurement). Overall, 70% of the planned      partly by the Bank's protracted
                                               equipment was purchased, of which 85%          decision-making process, particularly
                                               was for teaching/learning, and 20% for         regarding the procurement of physics and
                                               advanced research. The reduction in the        applied science equipment, for which the PIU
                                               amount of equipment procured was the           was required to appoint outside experts and
                                               result, in part, of an agreement between the   hold meetings to decide on the final
                                               Bank and the Borrower that certain items of    equipment list. This process apparently
                                               research equipment be cancelled to accord      delayed ICB-2 by nearly 3 years.
                                               with the number of advanced degree RI staff Furthermore, differences between the Bank
                                               and the 220 (instead of 850) staff on          and the PIU over the procurement of science
                                               short-term overseas training in subject        research equipment led to the final clearance
                                               content and teaching methology.                of only 8 of the 14 proposed research
                                                                                              equipment items.

Civil works valued at about US$26.5 million    Each of the 17 project RIs was provided with
will be completed on an agreed upon            a Science Center appropriately equipped,
schedule.                                      including conference room facilities, and all
                                               existing science workshops were renovated.
                                               The total cost was US$25.98 million
                                               equivalent
Objective 3.
1. ORIC will provide in-service training (5-15 By 2004, s total of 2,967 RI staff had
day duration) for 1,880 RI staff.              received in-service training, 157% of the




                                                                    - 24 -

                                               planned target of 1,880.
2. 850 RI staff will be provided with          The actual number of RI staff who received
short-term overseas training.                  short-term overseas training was 217, or 98%
                                               of the revised target of 220, following the
                                               Mid-Term Review.
3. RI staff, teaching math and science, will   The target was 850 days of school visits by   The actual number was 1,131days of
be required to spend at least 10 days a year   RI staff teaching science and math.           advisory services provided to secondary
visiting schools where they will train teachers                                              schools, 33% above the target.
and assist in course implementation.
4. RIs would be required to upgrade the
capacity of 280 existing teachers per year.                                                  The actual number of secondary school
                                                                                             teachers who were provided with upgrading
                                                                                             training was 21,925, or 115% over the
                                                                                             planned target of 19,040.

                                                                                             The training provided by RI staff to upgrade
                                                                                             the subject knowledge and teaching methods
                                                                                             of secondary school teachers is continuing
                                                                                             beyond the SEQI project, financed by local
                                                                                             budgets, testifying to the institutionalization of
                                                                                             the RIs' academic and professional support
                                                                                             to the schools in their area.


Objective 4.                                   By the end of 2003, 299 research projects     The ORIC completion report (undated) stated
1. The project will finance 170 research       had been granted, versus the target of 170    that all 299 research projects have been
projects in science and math education,        (each of the 17 RIs was expected to           completed with the breakdown at the end of
industrial technology, health, environment     undertake 10 research projects).              the table:*
and agriculture.                               The coverage of research studies undertaken
                                               is illustrated by those carried out by Chiang
                                               Mai, Lampang and Pibul Songkram RIs. The
                                               research topics included general agriculture,
                                               animal husbandry, botany, chemistry,
                                               environmental and water pollution,
                                               horticulture, microbiology and strategies and
                                               innovations in science pedagogy and
                                               classroom instructional techniques
                                               The results have been disseminated in
                                               general, academic and scientific journals;
                                               research papers have been distributed to RI
                                               libraries, science centers, the National
                                               Library, public universities, the National
                                               Research Council, and the Institute for the
                                               Promotion of Teaching Science and
                                               Technology (IPST). The list of completed
                                               research projects has been published by
                                               ORIC [Ministry of Education, ORIC:
                                               Research Reports under the Secondary
                                               Education Quality Improvement (SEQI)
                                               Project, 1997-2001.]


2. The project will finance 270 community      By 2003, 463 community service projects       The ORIC completion report stated that all
service projects to improve RI capacity to     were funded, 71% over the target of 270.      463 community service projects have been
provide local technical services.                                                            completed.
ONPEC
Objective: To improve quality in science,
math, English, and computer
learning/teaching in 150 junior secondary
schools through integration of ICT.
Teacher Training                               By end of 2001, 1,050 staff had been trained. Completed (details under column "Projected
Training teachers in computer skills to be     They included 750 teachers in 4 subject       in Last ISR).
applied in teaching science, mathematics,      areas (computer, math, science and
and English through student-centered           English), 150 school principals and 150
approaches.                                    community leaders.


Session 1:                                     In 2002, 969 teachers were provided training
Train 900 teachers                             in science, math, English and computer. In




                                                                   - 25 -

                                               January, 2005, a second batch of 893
                                               teachers received the same training.
Session 2:
Train 890 teachers.
Section 1: 599 teachers in 3 subjects to be    In August 2002, 638 staff (593 teachers in 3
trained in education reform and                subjects and 45 supervisors) were trained in
student-centered approach.                     education reform and student-centered
                                               teaching/learning approach.
Section 2: 300 computer teachers to be         In September 2002, 331 staff (300 computer
trained in education reform and use of ICT in teachers and 31 supervisors) were trained in
teaching/learning.                             education reform and use of ICT in
                                               teaching/learning.
Section 3: 150 school principals and 150       In September 2002, 300 staff (150 school
heads of project schools to be trained.        principals and 150 heads of project schools)
                                               were trained.
Section 4: 150 school principals to be trained In September 2003, 150 principals were
in Logical Framework.                          trained in Logical Framework.


Session 3:
 1. Teachers. 890 to be trained (in            In 2004, 2,121 staff ( 1,975 teachers in 4
Workshop I & II) in integrating ICT with       subject areas and 326 supervisors) were
subject teaching.                              trained in Workshops I & II in integrating ICT
                                               with subject teaching.
2. Principals/School Administrator Training    In 2004, 150 school principals, and in 2005,  In 2005 (Feb. 26 - Mar.6) 175 principals (150
in Instructional Leadership and ICT/English    223 staff (154 school principals and 69       from lower, and 24 from upper, secondary
Language Proficiency for school reform.        supervisors) were trained in Instructional    schools) were given the same training.
                                               Leadership and ICT/English Language
                                               Proficiency for school reform.
3. Mathematics Teachers: Training in                                                         In 2005 (Feb. 28 ­ Mar. 11) 150 mathematics
Geometer's Sketchpad for mathematical                                                        teachers were trained in the use of
learning.                                                                                    Geometer's Sketchpad for math teaching.
4. Computer Teachers: Training in                                                            In 2005 (Mar. 21 ­ 27; April 2 ­ 8), 150
Professional System Administration and                                                       computer teachers were provided training in
Microsoft Windows Server 2003.                                                               "Professional System Administration on
                                                                                             Microsoft Windows Server 2003."
5. Science Teachers:                                                                         In 2005 (April 18-27), 150 science teachers
Development of teaching techniques and                                                       were provided training in "Teaching
learning process in science.                                                                 Techniques and Learning Process in
                                                                                             Science."
                                                                                             Three training courses ("Training in
                                                                                             Professional English for supporting the Use
                                                                                             of ICT;" "Exploring Best Practices in
                                                                                             Teaching/Learning" focusing on math,
                                                                                             science, technology and English as Second
                                                                                             Language ­ ESL), planned for
                                                                                             implementation in April, 2005, were cancelled
                                                                                             because prior approval was not obtained from
                                                                                             OBEC.

1End of project
*
Agriculture                    107
Science teaching/learning        91
Health science                   12
Industrial technology            28
Environmental science            61




                                                                  - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent): ORIC.

                                                                     Appraisal      Revised Loan    Actual/Latest  Perc
                                                                     Estimate         Amount          Estimate     of Ap

                             Component                               US$ million     US$ million     US$ million
1.Raise the qualifications of teaching staff in selected                11.40            11.40           11.32
Rajabhat Institutes (RIs, teacher colleges) and enhance                (9.30)             9.30          (9.03)
their understanding of modern teacher education
techniques.
2.Reinforce quality improvement in the RIs through                      105.9            78.30           71.82
modernizing science laboratories and workshops with                   (60.40)           (32.80)        (28.75)
up-to-date equipment, expanding laboratory space and
refurnishing workshops.
3.Expand the capacity of the RIs to carry out inservice                 11.00             5.90           3.19
training of secondary teachers.                                        (7.70)            (2.60)         (1.87)


4.Enhance the RIs capacity to undertake research and                    11.90             8.30           8.51
provide technical services to the community.                           (4.50)            (0.90)         (0.60)

Total Project Costs                                                    140.20           103.90           94.84
Total Financing Required                                              (81.90)           (45.60)        (40.25)
(Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank Loan)


Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent): DGE



    Project Cost by Component                         Appraisal Estimate   Actual/ Latest     Percentage of
                                                                              Estimate          Appraisal
1. Renovation of Rooms for Science,                            5.77              5.77             100
   Mathematics and English Laboratories                      (0.00)            (0.00)             (0)
2. Improving science, mathematics and                         13.52             6.51              48
   English teaching and learning through                     (11.12)            (6.29)            (57)
   provision of equipment
3. Expand the capacity of the school to                       1.17              0.94              80
   carry out training of secondary school                    (0.00)             (0.00)            (0)
4. Enhance the PIU capacity                                   0.93              0.57               61
                                                             (0.66)             (0.49)            (74)
Total Project Cost                                            21.39             13.79              64
Total WB Finance Required                                     11.78             6.78               58
(Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank Loan)




                                                           - 27 -

Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent) - ONPEC



          Project Cost by Component                          Appraisal   Actual/ Latest    Percentage of
                                                             Estimate      Estimate          Appraisal

1. Increase teachers' knowledge in science,                     2.86          2.24             78
   mathematics, English and computer                           (2.05)         (1.47)           (72)
   education through training
2. Improve science, mathematics, English and
   computer education through equipment                         4.43           3.76            85
   provision.                                                  (3.05)         (2.40)          (79)
3. Expand the capacity of the school to carry
   out training of secondary school                               -             -               -
4. Enhance the PIU capacity                                     0.83           0.40            48
                                                               (0.54)         (0.18)          (33)
Total Project Cost                                              8.12           6.40            79
Total WB Finance Required                                       5.64           4.05            72
(Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank Loan)

Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements -ORIC (Actual/ Latest Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)

                                                                             1
                                                          Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                   ICB                NCB             2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                         Other
1. Civil Works                                -                  -         -           25.98         25.98


2. Equipment                                28.75              9.62       3.91           -           42.28


3. Equipment O&M                              -                  -         -            3.56          3.56


4. Training                                   -                  -        1.87          1.32          3.19


5. Fellowships                                -                  -        9.03          2.29         11.32
6. Research Grants &                          -                  -         -            4.19          4.19
   Technical Service
   Projects
7. Consultant Services                        -                  -        0.60          0.70          1.30
8. Project Management                         -                  -          -           3.02          3.02
          Total                             28.75              9.62      15.41         41.06         94.84




                                                           - 28 -

Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements -DGE (Actual/ Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

         Category of Expenditure                            Procurement Method   1


                                           ICB        NCB          Other         N.B.F. 2    Total Cost
1. Civil Works                              -          -              -           5.77          5.77
2. Equipment                               6.51         -             -             -           6.51
3. Training                                  -          -           0.94            -           0.94
4. Consultant Services                       -          -           0.49            -           0.49
5. Project Management                        -          -           0.08            -           0.08
                   Total                   6.51         -              1.51       5.77          13.79




Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements - ONPEC (Actual/ Latest Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
          Category of Expenditure                           Procurement Method   1


                                             ICB       NCB         Other        N.B.F. 2    Total Cost
1. Civil Works                                 -         -            -            -            -
2. Equipment                                   -       3.76           -            -           3.76
3. Training                                    -         -           2.24          -           2.24
4. Consultant Services                         -         -           0.18          -           0.18
5. Project Management                          -         -           0.22          -           0.22
Total                                          -       3.76         2.64           -           6.40




                                             - 29 -

Project Financing by Category of Expenditure - ORIC (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
Category of Expenditure        Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
          - ORIC
                           Bank      Govt.       CoF.    Bank         Govt.     CoF.   Bank    Govt.   CoF.
1. Civil Work                        27.50                           25.98                      94.5
2. Equipment               60.40     11.70               28.75       13.53              47.6   115.6
3. Equipment O&M                     6.30                             3.56                      56.5
4. Training                7.70      3.30                 1.87        1.32              24.3    40.0
5. Fellowships             9.30      2.10                 9.03        2.29              97.1   109.0
6. Research Grant & Tech.            6.10                             4.19                      68.7
Service Project
7. Consultant Services     4.50      0.50                 0.60        0.70              13.3   140.0
8. Project Management,               0.80                             3.02                     377.5
Facilities and M& E
Total                      81.90     58.30               40.25       54.59              49.1    93.6




   Project Financing by Category of Expenditure ­ DGE (US$ million equivalent)


         Category of          Appraisal Estimate        Actual/ Latest Estimate     Percentage of Appraisal
         Expenditure

                             Bank           Govt.        Bank            Govt.       Bank          Govt.
   1. Civil Works              -            5.77          -              5.77         -            100
   2. Equipment              11.12          2.40         6.29            0.22         57            9
   3. Training                 -            1.17          -              0.94          -            80
   4. Consultant Services     0.66            -          0.49              -          74             -
   5. Project                  -            0.27          -              0.08         -             30
   Management
     Total                   11.78          9.61         6.78            7.01         58            73




                                                  - 30 -

Project Financing by Category of Expenditure - ONPEC (US$ million equivalent)


    Category of Expenditure        Appraisal Estimate  Actual/ Latest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal

                                   Bank         Govt.    Bank          Govt.    Bank          Govt.
1. Civil Works                       -            -        -             -        -             -
2. Equipment                        3.05         1.38     2.40         1.36       79           98
3. Training                         2.05         0.81     1.47         0.77       72           95
8. Consultant Services              0.54          -       0.18           -        33            -
9. Project Management (Facilities     -          0.29       -          0.22        -           76
and M&E)
Total                              5.64         2.48      4.05         2.35       72           95




                                              - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/01/1995               5    MISSION LEADER (1)               S               S
                                            SCIENCE EDUCATOR (1)
                                            PROJECT MANAGEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
                                            EDUCATION PLANNER
                                            (1)
                                            RESEARCH ANALYST (1)

 Supervision
              04/28/1997               4    ECONOMIST (1);                   S               S
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1); MISSION LEADER (1);
                                            SCIENCE EDUCATOR (1)
              09/09/1997               6    PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST (1);         S               S
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                            MISSION LEADER (1);
                                            SCIENCE EDUCATOR (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (2)
              12/10/1997               5    PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST (1);         S               S
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                                            SCIENCE EDUCATOR (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
              06/22/1998               4    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                            SCIENCE EDUCATOR (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); SCIENCE SPECIALIST (1)
              05/17/1999               4    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); SCIENCE EDUCATOR (1);
                                            SCIENCE SPECIALIST (1)
              06/14/1999               6    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                            SCIENCE EDUCATOR (1);
                                            SCIENCE SPECIALIST (2);
                                            FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
              12/28/1999               5    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                            SCIENCE EDUCATOR (1);
                                            SCIENCE SPECIALIST (1);
                                            FINANCILA SPECIALIST (1)
              06/20/2000               4    TTL (1); PROCUREMENT             S               S
                                            SPECIALIST (1); SCIENCE
                                            EDU SPECIALIST (1);



                                             - 33 -

                FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
12/14/2000    8 SENIOR OPERATIONS              S    S
                OFFICER (1)
                SCIENCE EDUCATION
                SPECIALIST (1)
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1)
                FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
                EDUCATION OFFICER (1)
                POLICY ANALYST (1)
                BUDGET ANALYST (1)
                ECONOMIST (1)
06/08/2001      PSR updated (no site visit)
12/14/2001    4 SENOIR OPERATIONS OFFI         S    S
                (1); PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                (1); FINANCIAL OFFICER (1);
                SCIENCE EDU SPECIALIST
                (1)
05/17/2002    4 SENOIR OPERATIONS OFFI         S    S
                (1); PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                (1); FINANCIAL OFFICER (1);
                SCIENCE EDU SPECIALIST
                (1)
12/12/2002    4 SENOIR OPERATIONS OFFI         S    S
                (1); PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                (1); FINANCIAL OFFICER (1);
                SCIENCE EDU SPECIALIST
                (1)
06/11/2003    7 TASK MANAGER (1);              S    S
                RESEARCH ASSIS. (1);
                IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
                EDUCATION SPEC. (1); FMS
                (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                (1); PROGRAM
                ASS-PROCURMENT (1)
11/04/2003    7 TASK MANAGER (1);              S    S
                RESEARCH ANALYST (1);
                PROCUMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); FMS (1); PROCUREMENT
                ANALYST (1); EDUCATION
                SPECIALIST (1);
                IMPLEMENTATION SPECIAL
                (1)
05/11/2004    6 TASK MANAGER (1);              S    S
                RESEARCH ANALYST (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); FMS (1); PROCUREMENT
                ANALYST (1); EDUCATION
                SPECIALIST (1)
10/27/2004    6 TASK MANAGER (1);              S    S
                RESEARCH ANALYST (1);
                FMS (1); PROCURMENT
                ANALYST (1); ED.



                - 34 -

                                           SPECIALIST (1); IMP
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               03/25/2005              5   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                           EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1),
                                           RESEARCH ASSISTANT(1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); FMS (1);

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 N/A                        198,043
  Supervision                           N/A                        560,760
  ICR                                   N/A
  Total                                 N/A                        758,803




                                            - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Borrower's Implementation Completion Reports for Loan 4052-TH:

        ORIC: Final Evaluation Project Report, September 29, 2005
        ONPEC: Final project implementation completion report, September 7, 2005
        DGE: Final project implementation completion report, August 5, 2005

Borrower's Other Reports:

1. "Summary of Baseline Data of SEQI Project Report on North-eastern Thailand," dated January 24,
2005, by Dr. Samarn Asawaphum.

2. "Summary of School Visits concerning British Council Training," (on KMUTT [King Mongkut
University of Technology Thonburi]; student questionnaires; school visitor comments; findings from
interviews pointing to further support; findings from 30 questionnaires to SEAR managers concerning
running the SEAR), by Dr. Richard Watson Todd [January 2005].

3. "Administrators Training Workshops : Instructional Leadership for School Reform (Second Draft)" by
Dr. Sen Keoyote, January 23, 2005.

4. "Report on progress of SEARs project," by Dr. Richard Watson Todd, 17 April, 2003.

5. "Progress Reports of On-Site School Visits and Training of Trainers: Development of Teaching
Techniques and Learning Process in Mathematics, Module 3" by Dr. Krongthong Khairiree [2004].

6. "Developing Teaching Techniques and Learning Processes in Science, Module 3: On-Site Visits
    Report," by Mr. Mark Windale, Sheffield Hallam University, September, 2004.

7. "English Component: Student English Access Rooms, " Training Evaluation Consultancy Services
    Final Report, by Dr. Richard Watson Todd, 6 January, 2005.

8. "Developing Leadership and Management Capabilities of School Administrators in Holistic Learning
    Development and Sustainability of the SEQI Project," Final Report by Mark Windale and Niki Elliot,
    Sheffield Hallam University, 15 April, 2005.

9. "Developing the monitoring and evaluation capability of the PIU team to ensure effective embedding
    and sustainability of the SEQI Project," Final Report by Mark Windale, Sheffield Hallam University,
    27 April, 2005.

10. Evaluation of DGE Project Schools, Final Report [undated] by Dr. Nopadol Chenaksara,

11. Evaluation of Secondary Education Quality Improvement Project, by Dr. Suwaporn Samheng, Dr.
Sunun Solkosum and Dr. Ubolpong Wattanaseree, 2005.

12. Office of the National Primary Education Commission, Ministry of Education, Secondary Education
Quality Improvement Project Proposal, Phase 1, undated.

13. Department of General Education, Ministry of Education, Proposal for Secondary Education Quality
Improvement Project, Phase 1, undated.




                                                    - 38 -

14. "Course Implementation Report: Teaching of the Geometer's Sketchpad for Mathematics Learning and
Teaching," Group 1, Teaching Mathematics at Intermediate Level, 28 February ­ 4 March, 2005; Group 2,
Teaching Mathematics at Advanced Level, 7-11 March, 2005.

Bank Documents

1. Staff Appraisal Report on Thailand Secondary Education Quality Improvement Project, Report No.
15577-TH, dated May 28, 1996.
2. Loan Agreement for Loan Number 4052-TH, dated January 10, 1997.
3. Amendment to the Loan Agreement, Letter No. 418/2002, dated April 17, 2002.
4. Thailand Education Sector Strategy Note, dated July 30, 1999.




                                                - 39 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Comments


Final Evaluation Project Report
Secondary Education Quality Improvement Project
Office of Rajabhat Institutes Council (ORIC)
September 29, 2005

1. Project Objectives and Output by Objective
    Objective 1:          To raise the qualifications of teaching staff in seventeen Rajabhat Institutes and
    enhance their understanding of modern teacher education techniques.
    Objective 1:          Raising the qualifications of teaching staff. The allocation of fellowships, 150 for
    Masters and 125 for Ph.D for local and overseas study was made. Any RI staff or any university
    graduate is eligible to apply. The successful applicant is required to go to teach at the prescribed RI
    upon his/her completion
    Output:
    243 fellows were selected to go for overseas and local graduate study under the project, 143 for
    masters and 100 for Ph.D. 206 had reported to teach at RIs and the remaining 37 were in progress. Of
    the 37 fellows, 3 were in the masters and 34 were in the Ph.D. program.

    Objective 2:          To reinforce quality improvement in the RIs through modernizing science
    laboratories and workshops with up-to-date equipment, expanding laboratory space and refurbishing
    workshops.
    Objective 2:          Reinforcing Quality Improvement covers the following. (1) the construction of 17
    science centers equipping with modern building facilities, (2) the procurement of science equipment
    relevant and appropriate for teaching and research, and (3) the renovation of existing science
    workshops.
    Output:
    (1) The construction of 17 science centers including the conference room facilities was completed.
    The centers were air-conditioned and equipped with required and appropriate sound system.
    (2) The procurement of science equipment for research and teaching and learning. Totally, about 70%
    of the equipment was purchased; about 85% of the equipment for teaching and learning were purchased
    and only 20% of the equipment for advanced research was delivered. About 49.90% of the loan for
    equipment was used up.

    The effect of lacking science equipment for teaching and learning was caused by World Bank's
    decision. World Bank suggested that there were a lot more equipment settled in each center, therefore,
    they needed to cut them off for many items. However, the remained equipment was still inadequate.

    For science equipment for research, it was also had the same problem as said above. PIU could procure
    the equipment for only 20%. In this case, we could say that the World Bank had a very constricted
    vision in providing inadequate equipment for the whole period. They did not concern for the future that
    Rajabhat are forming to be generous productive institutes. We have been preparing for teachers
    development including getting higher degrees for the forthcoming years. For this reason, it could be
    said that our missions were not completed as the Task Manager of World Bank guided us to the
    harmful way.




                                                     - 40 -

   (3) The renovation of existing science workshops. 100% of the existing science workshops were
   renovated.

   Objective 3:          To expand the capacity of the RIs so that they can carry out in ­ service training
   of secondary schools teachers.
   Objective 3:          Four sub ­ objectives were included in this main objective. They were: (1) the
   local short ­ course training of 1,880 RI staff, (2) the overseas short ­ course training of 850 RI staff,
   (3) the short ­ course training of 19,040 secondary school teachers by the participating RIs during the
   four ­ year period or 280 teachers per RI per year, and (4) the 10 days per year advisory services on
   mathematic and science teaching of individual RI staff given to secondary school teachers by the 17
   RIs during the 5-year project period were to be carried out.

   Outputs:
   (1) The local short ­ course training of 1,880 RI staff. 2,967 RI staff or 157.87% were locally trained.
   It's 1,087 higher than the set target.
   (2) The overseas short ­ course training of 850 RI staff. Only 217 RI staff were sent overseas. It was
   only 24% of the set target, or 633 staff lower than what was planned.
   (3) The in-service training of 19,040 secondary school teachers. 21,925 teachers participated in the
   program. It was 115% of the target or 2,885 higher than what was planned.
   (4) The advisory services by RI staff. The actual time of advisory services given by the RI staff to
   secondary school teachers were 1,130 days. They were 281 days higher than the planned 850 days, or
   133% of the target.

   Objective 4:          To enhance the RIs capacity so that they can under take research and provide
   technical services to the community.
   Objective 4:          The capacity building of RIs in research and community services included (1) the
   development of at least 100 learning modules, (2) the funding of 170 research projects of the
   participating RI staff, (3) the funding of 270 community service projects of the RIs.

   Outputs:
   (1) The development of 100 learning modules through the R & D process. 168 learning modules were
   developed. It was 168% of the target, or 68 modules higher than what were planned.
   (2) The funding of the 170 research project. 289 research projects were funded. It was 170% of the
   target or 119 projects higher than the planned target.
   (3) The funding of the 270 community services. 439 community service projects were funded and
   carried out. It was 162.60% of the target or 169 projects higher than the planned target.

2. Outcome / Achievement of Objectives
   The office of RIs was highly proud and satisfied with the SEQI achievement. The project brought
   about improvement of the participating RIs in many ways. The quality and the quantity of the
   participating RI Science and applied science staff were increased significantly. Particularly, the number
   of staff with specialization in science and applied science was satisfactorily increased. The modern
   science and applied science laboratories suitable for the raising of student quality were available. New
   programs in science and applied science were developed. These were the consequences of the staff
   development programs and the availability of science and applied science learning facilities. The
   teaching and learning approach was shifted from the conventional lecture to the Lab-approach. Not
   only the knowledge and laboratory skills they brought back to Thailand but those RIs staff who went
   for training overseas also brought back the lab management skills and work culture of overseas
   professors. As well, they have developed academic networks with those professors. Consequently,


                                                    - 41 -

   new body of knowledge was brought about.

   Today, the RIs science and applied science staff have high self-confidence in their own discipline. This
   is the direct consequence of the staff development programs, the use of and the familiarization with
   modern equipment, the conducting of research projects, and the involvement in the community service
   programs.

   With regard to student quality, the student quality studying under the SEQI project was highly
   developed. They gain high equipment usage skills and are able to assist their lecturers in the class as
   well as to serve as resource persons in equipment usage training.

   Another markable and sustainable success of the project is the increase in number of RIs staff with
   masters and doctorate degrees in science and applied science. 243 staff gained their masters and
   doctorate degrees, which is the highest figure ever happened to the RIs history. Those who participated
   in the overseas training introduced new teaching and learning techniques such as Laboratory Approach,
   Problem ­ Based Learning, Scenario, and Forensic to their classes. The availability of the modern
   science building, laboratories and equipment is also considered the highest success of the project

   The success mentioned above is based on the following indicators: (1) the availability of science
   buildings together their modern laboratories and relevant equipment for teaching and learning of
   individual RIs, (2) Since our last survey in 1997, the number of our teachers with doctorate degrees in
   science and applied science before implementing this project were found only 27 persons. However, we
   believe that after completing this project, there will be about 100 teachers graduated in this field. For
   that numbers we will have 370 % of teachers in higher degree increasing as planned., (3) the academic
   accreditation of the RIs given to by the public and the private organizations through the requests for
   training, Laboratory usage, and academic advice, (4) the number of MOUs signed between the RIs and
   the private sectors in using the RIs' Laboratories for research and student development, (5) the number
   of published research report carried out by the RIs staff. (6) the increase in involvement of RIs staff in
   helping community members in applying science to their career, (7) the increase in the number of RIs
   science or applied science graduates who pursued their graduate degrees in various universities, (8) the
   very high level of equipment usage skills of the students under the SEQI project. These students can
   provide training in equipment usage to secondary school teachers. The students in the senior year can
   help their lectures in advising the 1st ­ 3rd year students on how to use the science equipment.

3. Lesson Learned.
   The SEQI is the only science and applied project ever funded with this high amount of money since the
   inception of the Department of Teacher Education through out the Office of Rajabhat Institutes
   Council period. The overall evaluation of the project is highly satisfied. The causes of success are
   shared by a number of various partners, particularly the PIU staff, the participating RIs, the Office of
   Rajabhat Institutes Council, and the local World Bank Staff.

   Besides the success, a number of problems and obstacles encountered. The office learned a lot through
   the solving of these problems and obstacles. The following cases are worth learning for future
   administration and improvement of project implementation.

   1. Lesson Learned on the Borrower's Performance.
       1.1       Personnel. Following are the project's personnel problems.
                 (1)     The every ­ year transfer of the chief executive at the Director General or the
   Secretary ­ General level caused the discontinuity of policy implementation of the project.


                                                    - 42 -

             (2)      The Project Manager. During the 5-year project period, 4 managers were
appointed. This interrupted the continued implementation of the project.
             (3)      The PIU staff. The PIU staff lacked experience in the loan project. Since this is
new to them, they should be priority trained before their new assignment. The specially designed
training and the study of relevant documents, rules, and regulation should be very useful.

    1.2      The PIU office and facilities during the first two years were poorly established. The PIU
subunits were located in 3 different floors of 2 buildings. This caused the coordinating problems to the
PIU. Further, the office facilities were poorly equipped. Towards the end of the 2nd year of the
project implementation, the PIU office was well established. It is advised that the PIU office be well
established prior to the implementation of the project. This shall help increase the project efficiency.

2. Lesson Learned on the Procurement Process.
    2.1      The ICB Procurement. The ICB procurement process was new to the PIU staff. A
number of paper works were required. These include the preparation of equipment specifications, the
verification guidelines of the equipment, and the proof of the origin of the goods. The difficulty was
also encountered due to the discongruency between the bank's and the Thai Ministry of Finance
procurement regulations.
    2.2      The delayed procurement process. The delay coursed by the bank's regulatory procedure
is acceptable. In some cases, the delays were caused by the decision ­ making process enforced by the
local bank's staff and these were considered unnecessary. They should be taken as the lessons learned
for future improvement. Two cases are cited below.

             (1)      The procurement of Physics and Applied Science equipment ­ including Physics,
             Environment, Ceramics, Agriculture, Food and Technology, and Construction. The bank's
             officers didn't trust the RIs staff in identifying suitable and relevant equipment thus
             required the PIU to invite outside experts to go reviewing the list prior to the procurement
             stage. Two to three meetings were called prior to the approval of the list. This selection
             and the arrangement for the meeting of experts required time thus extending the ICB-2 up
             to 2 year, 10 months, and 22 days.

             (2)      The procurement of research equipment. The bank's officers didn't agree with the
             list of proposed research equipment. It was required that the PIU submit the reasons and
             necessity for the selection of each item, the RIs equipment users, the relevant research
             project, the maintenance budget, and the research hours using the proposed equipment.
             Once the work was completed, again the bank's offices did not agree with the list. Further
             works were required. University professor and outside experts were invited to review the
             list. The experts suggested the procurement of 14 items of research equipment for the
             selected 14 RIs. The items were forwarded to the local Bank's officers for approval. Only
             8 items for individual 8 RIs were approved.

    The bank's task manager required that the equipment could only be purchased once the RIs staff
    were there to use the equipment. The graduating masters or doctorates who were about to return to
    Thailand and would use the equipment could not be cited as the reason for the selection of the
    proposed list. This was different from what the project management team asserted. The staff
    development activities, the facility improvement, and the procurement of equipment must go
    together so that the equipment be delivered on the date the successful masters and doctorates
    arrived back to Thailand. The disapproval of the proposed list by the bank's offers disabled the
    masters and the doctorates from conducting advanced research in science and applied science. It


                                                  - 43 -

       deterred the opportunity and the development of science and applied science in Thailand. The task
       manager should modify the approval criteria and envision future development of Thai science and
       applied science.

   3. Lesson Learned on the Bank Performance.
       3.1      Timing Schedule. Very often, the delayed decision or the non-decision made by the task
   manager impeded the planned implementation of the project. For example, the delayed approval of
   overseas training by the task manager had blocked the returned trainees from conducting the locally
   planned training for the RIs staff. This seriously impeded the achievement of the projects training
   goals. Further, the disapproval of the extension request made by the ORIC had also blocked the SEQI
   project from achieving its remaining goals. While waiting for the two-year extension of the DGE and
   ONPEC's loan component, which was part of the ORIC's SEQI loan, ORIC could do nothing, but had
   to keep the PIU office open to follow up and monitor the progress of the DGE and ONPEC's
   implementation. It cost the PIU operating budget

       3.2      Task Manager's Performance Role. The task manager during the 1997 ­ 2002 period too
   much interfered with the internal operation of the PIU. The PIU officers had very little
   decision-making power regarding the management of the planned project. To enhance the management
   efficiency, the task manager should serve as the advisor or the auditor of the project ­ but not the
   project director herself. The two ­ way comunication between the task manager and the PIU officers
   should be put in place. The SAR should specify clearly the relationships between the two mentioned
   parties. The task manager should not so often come up with new criteria and daily advice. For
   example, the selection of RI staff for overseas training, the task manager required that the rigid
   selection criteria be enforced. Following the selection criteria, only 8 to 9 RIs staff passed the overseas
   training criteria. Only minimal number of RIs staff was sent overseas. This was contradictory to the
   ORIC proposal. The office proposed that the highly committed RIs staff be selected to participate in
   the program. Of course, satisfactory English proficiency was required. However since the training
   emphasized the hands ­ on experience, the highly committed staff should have no difficulty involving
   themselves in the training activities. The English proficiency of the RIs staff should be given second
   priority. The overseas training was the only project component that encountered severe failure. The
   number of participant was very much below the target.

Borrower Performance

   1. Preparation
       Following the approval of the loan by the cabinet on December 19th, 1995, the borrower (ORIC)
       together with the World Bank team studied details of the loan project. Some modifications to the
       project objectives and goals were made. The project modification was appeared in the SAR (Staff
       Appraisal Report). The borrower assigned key personnel to be responsible for the project. The
       office space was renovated. The key staff were introduced by the bank team to the procurement
       procedure and the project management. The Project Operating Committee (POC) was named. The
       Presidents and some administrative team of the 17 RIs were introduced to the objectives, goals, and
       activities of the loan project. Each RI was instructed to name the institute's project management
       team, to prepare key staff who would be responsible to the day-to-day operation of the project, and
       to name the Project Implementations Team (PIT) as well as the institution's PIU team. The central
       PIU organized a number of meeting and seminars introducing the institute's PIU team to the role
       and responsibilities of the institute.

       At the beginning, the project management team office faced some difficulties regarding the office


                                                   - 44 -

   space, office facilities, and personnel shortage. However, not very long, ORIC was able to solve
   these problems. PIU was finally staffed with qualified personnel and housed in the conducive
   environment. It was beautifully designed and equipped with suitable office equipment.

   ORIC had coordinated with Bureau of the Budget (BOB) in appropriating the counterpart fund.
   The PIU staff were sent for training at some other Thai government's on-going loan project. They
   were trained on project management and equipment procurement's procedure. Some tips to project
   management success were introduced.

   The borrower preparation and performance were satisfactory. ORIC, the Central PIU, the
   institute's PIU, and the institute's implementation team was properly prepared and highly
   cooperative.

2. Government Implementation Performance.
   As the result of the severe shortage of personnel in the field of science and applied Science in the
   past decade, the Thai government highly committed to the urgent policy on the development of
   personnel in these fields. Although the allocation of the counterpart fund during the first two year
   was not as planned, but all important activities were funded. Particularly, the budget for the
   construction of the science centers was allocated. The delay of the construction was not caused by
   the budget insufficiency, but it was the account deficit problem of the winning contractors at some
   RIs. Towards the end, the Thai government had allocated all the counterpart fund specified in the
   loan agreement to the project. In some activities, ORIC achieved higher than what were specified
   in the project goals. The government organizations concerned such as the Office of the Attorney
   General, the Office of the Fiscal Policy, the university professors, and the National Electronic and
   Computer Technology (NECTEC) were very cooperative and responded actively to the PIU
   requests for cooperation and technical assistance. The Office of Attorney General was very helpful
   and supportive in solving rule and regulation matters, when needed. The cooperation given by the
   government organizations to this project was rated highly satisfactory

3. Implementing Agency
   Individual participating IRS set up their own Project Implementation Unit (PIU ­ RI). The
   structure of the PIU ­ RI was similar to that of the ORIC's PIU. The ORIC's PIU was called the
   central PIU.

   At the starting of the project, the central PIU had some difficulty in handling the project. There
   was some frequent change in the PIU management. For example, the central PIU was able to find
   its permanent manager almost towards the end of the second year of its implementation. Similarly,
   there were some changes in the management of the RI, too. Very often, the change in the
   management at the top levels led to the change in the PIU staff. Once the new staff was appointed,
   the staff development programs for new staff were organized. This was to assure that the new
   management team as well as the PIU staff understand their roles and responsibilities regarding the
   project implementation details. The PIU ­ RI had to work closely with the central PIU. Some PIU
   ­ RI staff might be seconded to the central PIU. They were asked to assist in the preparation of the
   equipment specifications. In addition, many were asked to sit in the bidding evaluations committee.

   In every 2 - month, ORIC called for the meeting of the Project Operating Committee (POC). This
   was to monitor the implementation progress as well as to solve implementation problems. The
   central PIU held the meeting with PIU ­ RI staff once a month. This was to strengthen cooperation
   between the two sides as well as to promote joint problem-solving activities.


                                                 - 45 -

       During the first two years, the government budget allocated to the project was insufficient. To
       keep the projects activities running as planned, individual participating RIs had allocated their
       non-government budget to support the bank project's activities. Particularly, the RIs used their
       non-government budget in running the in-service training of secondary school teachers and the
       community service programs.

       Overall, the Implementation Agency of individual RIs performed satisfactorily.

   4. Overall Borrower Performance.
      Overall, the borrower's performance was satisfactory.

      Note
       Revised Project Master Plan
       Due to the country's economic crisis in 1997 and the management delay, ORIC proposed 4
       revisions to the initial proposal to the bank.
       The 1st revision was made in February 2000
       The 2nd revision was made on April 21st , 2000
       This revision led to the reduction of the loan down to US$ 62.4 million (form the initial US$ 81.9
       million)
       The 3rd revision was made on June 20th, 2000. This revision led to the reduction of the loan down
       to US$ 51.9 million.
       The 4th revision was made on September 12th, 2000. The revision led to the reduction of the loan
       down to US$ 45.6 millions. It was the last revision and ORIC was informed that the office could
       not further revise the project.
       The SEQI (ORIC) requested to the Ministry of Finance through the Fiscal Policy Office and the
       World Bank on September 12th, 2000 for the reduction of the loan figure from the original US$
       81.9 with the following reasons.

      1.        The office requested for the adjustment of the equipment loan from US$ 40.4 million down
      to US$ 32.8 million due to the lower cost than the prize list of the equipment of about US$ 10
      million, the removal of some equipment from the list of some RIs of US$ 11 million, and the
      procurement rejection by the bank of about US$ 8 million
      2.        The office requested for the adjustment of the overseas training from US$ 7.7 million
      down to US$ 2.6 million due to the country's economic difficulty in 1997.
      3.        The office requested for the adjustment of the foreign consultant loan from US$ 4.5 million
      down to US$ 0.9 million to save the management cost.

      With these 3 reasons, US$ 36.3 million was readjusted from the US$ 81.9 original loan.


Borrower's Evaluation Report
Secondary Education Quality Improvement Project
Office of the National Primary Education Commission (ONPEC)
September 7, 2005

Introduction [April 19, 02 through April 30, 05]




                                                    - 46 -

In 2003, the World Bank agreed to the Government of Thailand's request to extend a small amount of the
loan (US$ 5.64 million) to implement a Secondary Education Quality Improvement Project with a goal to
enhance the educational reform in 150 selected lower secondary schools through the integration of ICT in
the instruction of four curricular areas, viz. science, mathematics, English, and computer education. The
goal was achieved through the procurement of computer equipment and teacher training conducted by
consulting teams. The computer equipment was procured to accommodate the computer room at each site
with a nominal network capability.     The staff training part enabled the teachers to integrate ICT in their
classroom instruction with learner-centered approaches appropriate for specific and across curricular areas.
Individual experts were engaged to assist in technical matters related to planning and management and
procurement, science and technology development, engagement of an ICT development team and five
personnel development teams, and project monitoring and evaluation. The general responsibility for
management of the SEQI Project (ONPEC) implementation was assigned to the ad hoc PIU attached to the
Bureau of Educational Innovations, a branch of the Office of Basic Education Commission (OBEC)
currently a merger of the former ONPEC and DGE of the MOE.

Assessment of the Project's Objectives, Design,
Implementation and Operation Experience

Project Objective

Under the loan funding, the SEQI-ONPEC Project's specific components included:

   l Procurement of computer equipment necessary to set up a computer laboratory with network
         capability at each site;
   l Engagement of four individual experts' services, one in planning and project management, one in
         science and technology development, and two in project monitoring and evaluation;
   l Engagement of one ICT development consulting team and five personnel development teams, one
         for each region; and
   l Staff training courses for school administrators, supervisors, and teachers in four curricular areas
         (science, math, English, and computer education)

Some training activities, although not funded by the IBRD, were also included in this report under the
heading "Personnel Development Training."

Procurement of Computer Equipment

While the master lists and specifications were prepared centrally at the PIU, tendering and contracting were
carried out by twenty-four provincial local educational area authorities. For most cases, the first tendering
exercises were successful. First tendering was unsuccessful in two provinces--Narathiwat and Udon
Thani--thus prompted the project to go for a second attempt that became successful. This and other
minor delays in equipment procurement did not affect timely teacher training in the integration of ICT in
curriculum and instruction in the four key subject areas.


Engagement of Individual Experts

The engagement of four individual experts' services was timely and the experts were able to assist the PIU
in major activities covered by their TORs, especially in the tasks related to the engagement of the ICT
development team, the personnel development teams, and related staff training courses. Based on their
TORs and their services covering the period from January 2004 to April 2005, the experts fulfilled their
duties and responsibilities and produced monthly and quarterly reports mandated by their respective
contracts.


                                                      - 47 -

Engagement of ICT and Personnel Development Teams

This involved the formal steps of TOR preparation, invitation to submit proposals, selection of qualified
consultants, and contracting. The preparation of the TORs took about eight months to complete, whereas
the invitation to participate and submission of proposals took another two months. The process of
evaluation, selection, negotiations, and contract award took about six months from January to June 2005.
Some minor retardation was experienced in the process of contract signing due to careful preparation of the
annexes and accompanying documents to satisfy the stringent requirements of legal documents to minute
details. It was the right move by most consultants to commence the preparation of the groundwork prior
to contract signing. This was one of the factors enabling the five personnel development teams to complete
their tasks well before the closing dates. It was unfortunate, however, that the ICT development team was
not yet able to fulfil the TOR on the creation of the digital library for the project, resulting in the schools
not being able to fully utilize the ICT methods and materials in their classroom teaching in the four target
subject areas. This became a stalemate in project execution as far as the installation of the digital library
was concerned.

Personnel Development Training

The training courses organized for school administrators, supervisors, and teachers in four curricular areas
(science, math, English, and computer education) could be summarized as follows:

1. Three workshops for administrators were conducted on school planning (August/September 2001), the
    role of ICT in school administration (September 2002), logical framework strategies in planning
    (September 2003), orientation to teacher training in four subject areas prior to teacher workshops
    (July/August 2004), and English and ICT training for instructional leadership (165 principles in
    February/March 2005).

2. Four training workshops were organized for subject area teachers and supervisors prior to loan
    effectiveness with the use of government funds. These were workshops on learner-centered approaches
    in teaching science, mathematics, and English conducted by Chulalongkorn University (5 days each in
    July 2002), and computer education by Suankulab Wittayalai School (5 days in August 2002).

3. Cascade training workshops on logical framework strategies for planning and learner-centered
    approaches were extended to subject teachers and supervisors in a number of schools on a voluntary
    basis (October-December 2002) with the use of the participating schools' own funds.

4. Courses for subject teachers and supervisors were conducted by five consulting teams on ICT
    integration in learner-centered curriculum and instruction. The courses were organized in two phases
    with emphasis on hands-on experience in the ICT skills and applications in teaching science,
    mathematics, English, and computer. Computer teachers also benefited from acquiring advanced ICT
    skills related to the Internet and computer maintenance necessary for their duty and responsibility as
    operators and facilitators of the school's computer systems and laboratories.

5. Advanced training included two workshops on Geometer's Sketch Pad for math teachers, two
    workshops for computer teachers, and one workshop for science teachers.

6. Aside from participating in all sessions in the courses offered to the teachers, the LEA supervisors
    were additionally trained on topics related to their usual functions in school supervision during those
    courses. A number of selected supervisors were also exclusively trained for a couple of days on


                                                    - 48 -

    school supervision toward the project closing date. The emphasis of supervisory training was on
    facilitating and mentoring subject teachers.

7. Additional training was provided on-site by the consultants' roving teams during school visits after
    each training workshop as part of the teams' mandates. The nature and substance of additional
    training for subject teachers varied from ICT skills to the use of software and instructional innovations.
    Computer teachers benefited from on-site assistance in proper installation of the network, fixing the
    file server, troubleshooting, and the like.

8. Five courses of enhanced training were provided to selected teachers, teacher leaders, supervisors,
   and/or PIU staff in three subjects: mathematics, science, and computer.

9. A two-day short course on project management was provided to the PIU staff with the use of computer
   software (Microsoft Project Management), with a view to strengthening general oversight of logistic and
   academic management.       The software was not in actual use by the PIU staff, but it did provide a
   framework for project planning and implementation in general.


  Key aspects of project achievement in staff training are summarized as hereunder:

1. The equipment procurement subcomponent (US$ 2.32 provided each school with a file server and a
    minimum set of computers. This enabled the schools to operate a computer room with network
    capability. Although some schools might be limited by the inaccessibility of the Internet or inadequate
    access due to extremely low Internet speeds, most schools were able to start the use of ICT in
    classroom teaching. The local competitive bidding method allowed tendering to be responsive to the
    needs of rural schools and provided the local authority to participate in the project. In the light of the
    LEA offices' new experience in procurement exercises under external funding, the LEA staff had an
    opportunity to test their procurement capacity and readiness for future projects.

2. The individual experts' services subcomponent (US$ 0.17 million) enabled the SEQI project to plan
    for and implement activities related to equipment procurement, staff development, and project
    monitoring and evaluation. Coordination of the activities of staff development training conducted by
    consulting teams was much facilitated by these experts' services. Besides, effective communication
    with the World Bank and review exercises with respect to critical issues as well as in major steps of
    implementation procedures was also achieved through the involvement of these experts.

3. The personnel development teams' subcomponent (US$ 0.84 million) achieved the project goal,
    objectives, and targets set forth by the TORs for four subject areas (mathematics, science, English, and
    computer education), except in setting up the digital library for all schools to access. In the four
    subject areas, a total number of 899 teachers and 168 supervisors were trained in ICT-integrated
    learner-centered approach to curriculum and instruction. The breakdown of subject teachers alone
    was 209 mathematics teachers, 196 science teachers, 194 English teachers, and 300 computer
    teachers. Furthermore, a total of 450 teachers or 150 in each of mathematics, science, and computer
    groups received advanced training in their respective field. A number of 43 project staff and others
    also benefited from these enhanced courses. All in all, subject teachers had acquired adequate ICT
    skills to use ICT in lesson planning and instructional materials preparation for classroom teaching.
    Some forms of holistic and cross-curricular teaching approach were also introduced in these schools
    such as GLOBE, PBL, and CAR. As an impact of staff development training, networks had been
    formed among school clusters prior to project closing on a voluntary basis with seed money provided



                                                   - 49 -

     for take off activities. This would help further expedite instructional reform in both lower and upper
     secondary schools in the clusters.

4. The training of 150 lower secondary school administrators, although restricted in scope, enabled them
     to understand their school improvement planning and educational leadership roles in an ICT-integrated
     curriculum and instruction environment. They now realized that school administrators must play a
     proactive part in the educational reform efforts in order to expedite the achievement of the goal and
     objectives of the recently amended education legislature.    Equipped with computer hardware and
     software and adequately trained teachers in four key subjects, the school administrators would be able
     to lead their schools to provide quality education to the students in remote areas via ICT-integrated
     modes of curriculum and instruction.

The Government's Performance during Project Implementation

The SEQI-ONPEC component was designed to enhance the instructional quality of science, mathematics,
English, and computer education in 150 primary schools that offered middle secondary classes to primary
students in remote areas.

Project delineation was carried out by the Special Projects Office of the former Office of the National
Primary Education Commission and was endorsed by the Ministry of Education prior to submission to the
World Bank for approval. Upon project inception in 2003 as a component of Loan Number 4052-TH, the
PIU was created as an ad hoc task force attached to the Bureau of Innovative Development in Education
for the oversight and execution of project implementation activities. While the preparation of equipment
master lists and specification was completed well in advance in close consultation with the World Bank's
Regional Office, the preparation of tender documents for equipment procurement and TORs for experts'
services took place after project inception in 2003. In spite of major structural reorganization and
reshuffling of senior executives of the Ministry of Education, the PIU managed to elicit decisions and
approval in assigning the procurement of computer equipment and peripherals to the 24 newly established
provincial Local Education Area Offices. The local competitive bidding procedure was employed resulting
in timely installation of the computer hardware at all 150 sites. Although problems of irresponsible and
inadequate after-sale services were experienced in some schools, the rate of breakdowns and repairs was
low.

During the Project implementation, the Government's support was critical in several areas, especially in
equipment procurement and employment of experts' services. In equipment procurement, the Government
delegated the provincial LEA offices a power to procurement computer hardware for the schools outside
their jurisdiction.  This was possible perhaps because of a long history of local educational administration
that the former provincial educational offices (one each for primary education, secondary education,
vocational education, and nonformal education) had oversight responsibility of all schools or facilities at
their respective levels. In the employment of experts' services for staff development, a problem was
encountered when the fixed budget method was introduced.         A precedent that occurred in an outside sector
supported the project's request and the national procurement committee granted an approval in due course,
just in time for contract signing with selected consulting teams.

In financial arrangements for project activities, the Government set up a revolving fund to draw from when
payments to experts, consulting teams, supportive services, and training activities were due. Such
payments would then be reimbursed from the loan. The World Bank fully supported these arrangements
instead of insisting on the special account method as with the case of SEQI/DGE, the sister component.




                                                      - 50 -

In project management, a senior official was designated Project Director responsible for overseeing all
aspects of the project. The Project Director who maintained his position amidst major changes in the
Ministry, he helped ensure continuity of the project and enabled the PIU to work smoothly with the World
Bank supervision mission that visited the project from time to time.

All objectives of the Project, except digital library development, had been achieved and the overall
contribution of the project to the education reform was substantial in marking the beginning of ICT
integration in the curriculum and instruction of science, mathematics, English, and computer education in
150 lower secondary schools--obviously a critical mass for secondary educational quality improvement in
the Thai system.

The Bank's Performance during Project Implementation

The SEQI/ONPEC and its PIU received a substantial support from the World Bank in the course of project
implementation. From the beginning the regional office and the Bank missions assisted the project in
delineating details of activities and documents to ensure adequate project preparation such that there would
be no delays in project implementation. Some preparatory activities were supported by the Bank through
the services of specialists such as PIU staff training in project management, procurement and disbursement
procedures, and project monitoring and evaluation. The World Bank staff and specialists provided
valuable and detailed feedback to the SEQI/ONPEC and PIU staff on the progress of the Project. The staff
of the regional office always promptly attended to and eased out all the issues related to the project
implementation. With the regional office close to the PIU, frequent visits to the sites, and prompt on
urgent calls or contacts for consultation, the project implementation was rather smooth. Excellent
coordination with policy offices in the government greatly contributed to timely resolution of major issues
that arose from time to time.

The Utilization of Funds for the Interest of Target Beneficiaries

The financing of quality improvement of lower secondary education has been used in accordance with the
goal and objectives in the interests of the target beneficiaries. The amount of investments implemented did
not exceed what was planned. In the climate of structural reform that took time to institutionalize and staff
the newly created departments and offices, the deployment of IBRD funds for equipment investments and
experts' services for personnel training effectively and responsively fulfilled the reform needs where regular
channels were unavailable or inaccessible.

During the project implementation period from January 2002 till April 2005, the SEQI/OPEC expenditure
on the implementation of project activities amounted to US$ 6.02 million or 72.5% of the total amount
planned (US$ 8.30 million), including the disbursement from IBRD Loan of US$ 3.69 million or 65.4% of
the total loan amount (US$ 5.64 million).

The total expenditure of the lower secondary component amounted to US$ 6.02 million. Equipment
procurement accounted for US$ 2.32 million, employment of experts and consulting teams US$ 0.17
million, and staff training US$ 0.84 million (pending finalized disbursement). The Thai baht counterpart
fund amounted to US$ 2.33 million for all categories.

Lessons Learned

Project Objective: Development of project goal, although subscribing to the overall educational reform,
did not cater to the needs to train teachers to carry out the entire function of curriculum and instructional


                                                      - 51 -

planning, delivery, and evaluation of the standard-based curriculum. To develop and accomplish such a
goal, the duration of project implementation would have had to extend to at least another two years with the
commencement of curriculum and instructional planning at the LEA and school levels in the first year, the
development of ICT-integrated teaching and instructional materials in the second year, and student
assessment and curriculum evaluation in the third year.

Engagement of Individual Experts: The engagement of individual experts for project implementation
could have been better orchestrated through coordination with personnel development teams. This could
have been done provided the PIU had been adequately staffed. In retrospection, structural reform at the
departmental & divisional levels at the time did not permit the PIU to recruit more staff to cover all aspects
of project implementation and coordination.

Engagement of ICT and Personnel Development Teams: The engagement of the ICT team encountered
a stalemate over the clarity of the TORs and the clearance of the copyright issue. Suffice it to say that the
TORs had been well thought out in close consultation with the World Bank specialists and mission
members, clarity could have been further refined by the employed team presupposed to be well versed in
the state of the art. Such was not the case and the PIU had documented several technical flaws concerning
the application software for the digital library, the design of the project web site, the sophistication and
interactivity of the contents, and so on. The copyright issue remained the ICT team's legal problem to
resolve, nonetheless becoming a stale-mate that affected fulfilment of the TORs. This had deprived the
government the use of loan funds for installation of a digital library and introduction of e-learning in
project schools. The engagement of personnel development teams provided an opportunity for a diversity
of approaches to staff training in the integration of ICT in curriculum and instruction and materials
preparation. It could have been helpful if the schools had been allowed a year or so for dissemination and
cross-regional exchange of these approaches.       It is also worthy of note that the employment of
Thai-national consulting teams as well as the involvement of university faculty rendered more benefit to the
schools and teachers in that the two institutions were able to continue professional and technical assistance
on the ground of their proximity and vital role in teacher education in local areas. The employment of
international experts for training did not benefit the project as fully as anticipated perhaps because they
were not allowed enough time to study the actual needs of the schools and teachers to tailor the training
methods and activities in response to such needs. Furthermore, they were not in a position to provide
continued support or consultation because they were typically individuals with-out institutional base in the
country.

Personnel Development Training: The training approaches varied from team to team and there was more
emphasis on ICT skills with less weight on the broader concept of teaching and learning approaches.
Given the teachers' lack of computer literacy and a short duration for training and coaching, staff training
over a longer period of time in two phases--firstly on ICT skills development and secondly on curriculum,
instruction, and materials--could have improved project achievement.


Final Project Implementation Completion Report
Secondary Education Quality Improvement Project
Department of General Education (DGE)
August 5, 2005

1. Assessment of Development Objectives and Design, and of quality at Entry




                                                       - 52 -

  1.1. Original Objective:

        The overall objective was to improve the quality of teaching of science, mathematics and English
        through the provision of specialized scientific equipment, computers and the development of
        teaching and learning and instructional resource materials. Specifically, the project sought to (1)
        upgrade 480 science laboratories, 80 Science and Mathematics Learning Centers (SMLCs), and 80
        Student English Access Rooms (SEARs) in 80 secondary schools, and (2) improve science,
        mathematics and English instruction by workshop/training on 2 modules. The project objectives
        were set on the basis that the ability of science, mathematics and English teachers needed
        improvement both in subject matter and in pedagogy, especially in the transition period of
        education reform. All teachers are required to translate the generic curricular provided by the
        Ministry of Education into courses and units of instruction based on their own design and to apply
        the student-centered approach through active-learning incorporated with the use of equipment and
        materials.

2. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

  2.1. Outcome/achievement of objective:

        Following outcomes can be seen from measurement tests, questionnaires, interviews, observation
    and documents:

        (a) Classroom change: classrooms taught by project teachers were significantly changed ; they
        were well managed and organized to enable active-learning, students were more relaxed, paid more
        attention, and learned more by themselves by using internet, or library;
        (b) Paradigm shift: the project supports the government's effort in education reform by enabling
        in-project teachers to make a paradigm shift in teaching and learning approaches from their
        previous teacher-centered paradigm to more student-centered approaches to teaching and learning
        that introduced teachers to use a wide range of active-learning, including advanced equipment
        supplied by the project to develop various skills. They felt that they had succeeded in turning
        abstract concept into teaching their students, so they expanded their knowledge and experience by
        training other teachers in their schools and in schools nearby.

   2.2. Outputs by components:

        Component 1: Upgrade science laboratories, Science and Mathematics Learning Center (SMLC),
        and Student English Access Room (SEAR) in 80 secondary schools:

        (a) The RTG financed 230 millions baht to renovate 480 science laboratories, set up 80 SEARs
        and 80 SMLCs in each of 80 schools and install them with furnishings of better quality and
        standard. The civil work was procured by each individual school. All rooms were prepared to
        house equipment, computers, computer peripherals, and AVA (Audio-visual aids).

        (b) Fifty three items of science equipment and AVA (16 packages comprising 28,180 pieces)
        were procured in 3 tenders. A package of computers and computer peripherals which had been bid
        in tender 2 was not approved by the minister (see details in section 5 pages 5-6).

        Student English Access Room (SEAR) was supplied with a wide selection of self-study materials



                                                      - 53 -

and CD-ROMs for language learning. This room provides opportunities for students to learn
English through self-access learning from the materials they can choose and other necessary
support, such as placement tests and classification systems.

Science and Mathematics Learning Center (SMLC) which is a computer-based learning of
mathematics was already supplied with GSP (Geometer's Sketchpad Program) with license and a
5-year upgraded version

Component 2: Staff Development:

(a) Training/Workshops :

    (1). Logical Framework: The World Bank supported a specialist team in the two 3-day
        workshops for 2 groups of school administrators, teachers, and PIU staff, totalling 560
        participants. The training enabled all concerned to set up their plan and carry out activities
        in accordance with the Master Logical Plan. The PIU staff attended the first workshop and
        assisted the specialists in guiding school staff in other workshops. The Master Logical
        Framework was produced and distributed to 80 schools as the master plan.

    (2). Module I :"Management of the school level project " : DGE held two 3-day
         seminars/workshops for 480 school administrators and staff to encourage their
         participation and support to the project.

    (3). Module II :

        (3.1)    Efficient Use of Equipment and Instructional Materials:
                 The training was for 80 key teachers and 640 project teachers of science, and
                 mathematics to strengthen their capacity to make use of specific items of
                 equipment purchased by the project fund . The courses comprised 2 phases of 5
                 days each. All key and project teachers, divided into 2 groups, attended both
                 phases. Phase II emphasized the use of ICT in teaching and learning.

        (3.2)    Self-Access Centre Management and Learner Autonomy: The training,
                 financed by the RTG was for 20 key teachers and 160 project teachers of English.
                 Educational materials and 6 software packages were also supplied to schools
                 using the RTG fund to support SEAR.

   (4). Module III: This module was provided for science and mathematics teachers.

        (4.1) Developing the Teaching Techniques and Learning Processes in Science:

       Sixty key and 480 project teachers of science, divided into 5 groups, attended
       the12-day training. The course developed teachers' experience and expertise in effective
       student-centered teaching and learning approaches. They could reap the benefits of the
       classroom changes and there were hugely observable improvements in student motivation,
       interest, enthusiasm, learning, achievement, behaviour and attitude. Some teachers said this
       is only one of projects they had ever met in their teaching career which is the most
       beneficial to students.



                                            - 54 -

             (4.2) Developing the Teaching Techniques and Learning Processes in Mathematics:

             Twenty key and 160 project teachers of mathematics, divided into 5 groups, attended
             10-day training. The course enhanced mathematics teachers with knowledge in
             implementing ICT in active student-centred teaching and learning approaches.

             (4.3) Train the Trainers:

            To sustain the development of science and mathematics, especially the on-site evaluation of
            science training made to 16 schools showed that the aims of training programme had been
            very successfully achieved It was therefore important to keep developing the success by
            training a number of teachers as trainers. The 5-day course for science was attended by 60
            key teachers and 47 project teachers, and for mathematics by 20 key teachers and 15
            project teachers. They were encouraged to think, review, revisit the active student-centered
            teaching and learning approaches and leave the workshops with correct understanding and
            clear messages to carry out their own training by establishing sub-regional teams.

       (5). Further Support for SEAR: Workshop for in-Project Teachers and SEAR Managers

             Financed by the World Bank, the OBEC engaged a consultant as a team leader in M&E of
             the setting up and running of SEARs. Four areas where further support for SEARs
             managers/teachers could be usefully provided were identified from data collected from
             M&E. One area the team proposed was a workshop for in-project teachers and SEAR
             managers mainly focusing on integrating the SEAR and the classroom. The participants
             were 80 SEAR managers, 160 in-project teachers, and 80 deputy directors for academic
             affairs. The other 2 areas for further support for SEAR were provision of Website and
             some school visits needing extensive support.

       (6). Geometer's Sketchpad in Teaching and Learning Mathematics in Upper Secondary
Level:

             The training, financed by the RTG, was for 80 teachers of mathematics. GSP software
             program provided from the training turns this subject from being abstract to more
             concrete, so it is more interesting and easier for students to understand the subject.

       (7). Module IV: Sustainability

             (7.1) Developing Leadership and Management Capabilities of School Administrators
             in Holistic Learning Development and Sustainability for the SEQI Project
             Financed by the World Bank, 240 school administrators and academic affairs
             administrators were trained to further ensure that the teachers trained under the project will
             receive the needed support when they return to their own schools. The training provided
             them an opportunity to share understanding of the processes involved in leading school
             improvement and maximize the effects of the program in their schools and beyond. The
             workshops were a great success. The participants returned to their schools with plans and
             tools for identifying priorities by using horizontal structures for monitoring the curriculum
             and learning, reviewing departments, developing vision and strategic plans for completing.
             Although all schools had already produced strategic plans for the ministry, they were not


                                                  - 55 -

               in any great detail and not long term plans. The participants therefore really appreciated
               the participating strategic planning process and structure which stimulated deep discussion
               and thinking, and enabled far more detailed planning which would enable easier and more
               effective implementation.

               (7.2) Developing the Monitoring and Evaluation Capability of the PIU team to Ensure
               Effective Embedding and Sustainability of the SEQI Project
               Also financed by the World Bank, a training was developed to enhance the PIU team's
               understanding of how school and curriculum monitoring and evaluation can contribute to
               effective school improvement. The training provided visits to schools and to agencies with
               responsibility for the monitoring and evaluation of education in England. This was
               supported by a series of seminars to clarify the structures and processes in use and their
               strengths and weaknesses, and to develop an overview of the skills and capacities required
               to implement such systems. The method to analyse the our reflections and to bring together
               our observations was also introduced and applied to identify strategic issues around which
               to action plan and to begin the development of tools to support monitoring and evaluation
               in order to ensure the sustainability of the SEQI project.

     (b) Provision of Materials and Software: The OBEC financed provision of printed materials and
software:

              (1). The Master Logical Framework to be a guide line for schools in developing their
              individual logical framework, it is beneficial for the M&E        team in collecting data;
              (2). Manual for the Use of Science Lab, SEAR and SMLC
              (3). Materials Package 1-4 supporting SEAR
              (4). Two packages of self-access materials for SEAR
              (5). Training Package for Training the Trainers by Using ATLAS (Active Teaching and
              Learning Approaches in Science) Teaching Techniques (provided from Module III, phase
              II)
              (5.1) Science equipment user manual in linking lab work to the curriculum
              (5.2) Putting Education Reform into Practice in the Science Classroom (edited from
              teachers' works in Module III training)
              (5.3) CD of Teaching Methods in Mathematics by Using GSP in Upper Secondary Level
              (5.4) Website to Support SEAR
              (5.5) GSP program with license and 5-year upgraded version (B.E. 2548-2552), including
              GSP manual in Thai
              (5.6) Samples of VCD of teaching mathematics by using GSP

       3.3 Institutional Development Impact:

               Following impacts can be seen as substantial:

               (a) School networks : 80 schools set school networks and plan to hold seminars or
               training for those who are interested in the new teaching techniques, some schools visited
               some project schools where project teachers became facilitators and supervisors;

               (b) School support: Although computers and peripherals were not procured and that has
               affected the lacking of equipment to operate the software and training previously provided,
               most schools view the SEAR, SMLC and science equipment to be of benefit to students.


                                                   - 56 -

                They provide some computers by their own budgets in order to make the best use of the
                aforementioned inputs.

                (c) Community sharing: equipment and rooms were shared by community, for instances,
                local guides and massagers have come to study in SEAR, and some schools have produced
                plant tissues for local agricultures.

4. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

     4.1. Factors outside the control of the government or implementing agency: Not applicable.

     4.2. Factors generally subject to government control:

       While serious efforts were made to develop the teaching and learning of sciences, mathematics and
       English, procurement of computers and peripherals did not materialize as planned. That was due
       to the changing government. A countrywide election was scheduled for February 6, 2005 and the
       interim government did not want to make any decision or take action until the new government was
       elected and formed. Decision making/ approval delays are being faced by all ministries, not only
       the MOE. By the time the new government was formed, it was too closed to the project closing
       date.

       The Project was scheduled to close on April 30, 2005, which was only two months away. The
       amount of funds allocated to this procurement will be automatically cancelled at that time. There
       is no intention to use these funds to finance other activities under the Project.

     4.3. Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

       Education Reform is complex, therefore, requires time and attention of every party involved to
       understand and implement it. As a result, most project teachers are overloaded with their usual
       work as well as additional one required for education reform activities. It is not easy for them to
       mainly focus on improving their teaching.

       Frequent changes of senior officers caused delays in decision making process of the project

       Under-staff of the PIU. The PIU did not have sufficient number of full-time staff. Only four of
       them worked on a full-time basis. Work, particularly on procurement and disbursement, had to be
       carried out by regular staff who often time had other responsibilities to handle. Complicated
       regulations also caused delays.

       Change in the Structure of the MOE. During the implementation of the Project, the MOE had
       undergone its structural change. The Project was put under supervision of the OBEC's Bureau of
       Innovation Development. However, none of the PIU staff was listed under that Bureau.

      4.4 Cost and financing

       The loan amount is USD 11.78 million for purchase of equipment and consultancy services. At the
       project end, disbursement was registered at USD 6.77 million (or 58% of the loan amount). The
       low disbursement rate, particularly under equipment category, was due mainly to the



                                                    - 57 -

       non-procurement of computers. The RGT had supported USD 9.59 million to the project for civil
       work, purchase of equipment, training and administration cost, which 73% has been disbursed.

       For actual administrative cost under RTG which was registered at 48.80%, the original plan
       included on-site monitoring and evaluation by the PIU team. Eventually, the task was contracted
       out and disbursed under consultancy services.

5. Sustainability

       5.1       Rationale for Sustainability Rating

       Continuing M&E: PIU team is planning to put in place a monitoring and evaluation system to
       ensure the sustainability of the SEQI project by establishing and developing strategic planning
       capabilities for Project schools. The priority areas for strategic development are as follows: (i)
       enhancing the capacity of the PIU team; (ii) developing the relationship between PIU and schools;
       (iii) collecting and analysing performance data; (iv) developing the role of and sustaining school
       networks; and (v) sustaining and developing professional development for teachers. The PIU
       started working in August 2005 with the intention of first covering 10 schools from various parts
       of Thailand that do not, as far as possible, overlap with schools visited by M&E Team. As of
       September, 2005, however, the PIU team visited 7 schools that included two previously visited
       schools whose administrators shared the PIU team's belief in M&E because the team wished to
       reaffirm their continuing support, which is important to sustaining the project. Future visits will be
       undertaken when the next budget is approved.

       Project School Network: Planning started in April 2005 to establish a network of project primary
       and secondary schools to support teachers' professional development, including training. Each
       network consists of schools in the same area or those which could conveniently work together. All
       secondary schools will be mentors for the primary schools in the school network project. From the
       PIU team's visits to schools, it is evident that several networks of primary and secondary schools
       in close geographical areas have been set up. Many schools have held training workshops on
       developing teachers' efficiency, for example in Songkhla in July 2005, with a follow-up planned
       for July 2006. According to the decentralization policy, all 175 educational service areas have to
       financially support all schools in their jurisdiction to help each other in all areas, including teaching
       and learning development. Many DGE project school teachers have helped to train teachers in
       non-project schools, thus spreading the benefits of teacher training under the project.

       A Manual for Active Learning: The PIU had some key and project teachers edit teachers' works
       in Module III training "Putting Education Reform into Practice in the Science Classroom" that will
       be published and disseminated to other secondary schools throughout the country. This edition
       will be a manual for teachers to follow the process of active learning trained in Module III.

       Lab and Equipment Utilization Manual: The OBEC hired 2 universities to produce a lab
       direction manual to facilitate teachers of biology, chemistry and physics in advance using the
       equipment purchased under the Project in various science experiments. The manual introduces
       experiments that are in line with not only curriculum but also with local environment.

       A Website for SEAR: In addition to a wide selection of self-study materials and CD-ROMs for
       language learning, King Mongkut University of Technology - Thonburi will establish website to



                                                     - 58 -

       support continuation of SEAR and update it for three years. Teachers and students can exchange
       information and knowledge through http://art.kmutt.ac.it/SEARS/.

       Lab School Project: Fourteen project schools were selected to participate in the Government's
       initiative on Lab School Project which includes 921 primary and secondary schools in total, with
       the aim of including 7,255 schools in the future. The objective is to create model schools to be as
       mentors in developing other schools at district and sub-district levels. The above 921 model schools
       have been developed in all aspects, particularly Information Communication Technology (ICT),
       and development of curriculum, teaching-learning materials, and learning sources. The
       improvement will be conducted in 3 phases: improving activities and expanding to others at
       sub-district level and nationwide.

       Key Teacher Network: Key teacher network has been built up as sub-regional teams to assist
       other teachers in active teaching, supported by the Training Package of Training the Trainers by
       Using Active-Teaching and Learning Approach in Science Teaching Techniques which was
       provided from the Train the Trainers and GSP software program with license and 5 year upgraded
       version. And 240 school administrators and academic affairs administrators attending the last
       workshops grouped into school regional clusters and planned to help each other by conducting
       seminars/ meetings concerning with teaching and learning. Most of them organized the first
       mission in May 2005. Moreover, within schools, project teachers shared their training materials
       with other teachers, planned together, shared activities and have regular meetings. Other subject
       teachers also tried to use active-learning techniques by studying from students' work and from
       school-based seminars.

       5.2. Transition arrangement to regular operations

       The disbursement task after the closing period has gradually been transferred to regular operations
       in the Bureau of Finance, OBEC.

6. Bank and Borrower Performance

       6.1. Bank

             (a) Lending

                Because the project was funded from a small part of the loan no. 4052-TH initially
                applied by the Office of Rajabhat Institutes Council, the staff were not treated as new
                borrower team and the initial project was not assessed. Delays happened since the
                beginning, consequently the project activities were far behind time. A few reviews were
                made to the performance indicators and training modules. Work plans were established
                without adequate information on what each activity should have been consisting of,
                especially procurement. It brought a lot of tension to the borrower team.

              (b) Supervision

                During the first two years of the project, the PIU had been suffering from difficulties and
                problems in preparing all project components' activities because the DGE was unready
                with staff recruitment and it was uneasy to work with the Bank team. After the two years



                                                    - 59 -

        of high tension, when PIU staff almost lost enthusiasm, the new team from the World Bank
        was really supportive to the project. In the situation that PIU had no procurement
        consultant, they dedicated a lot of time and advisory to this particular job. So the other 2
        ICBs were carried and accomplished without any consultant. Apart from that, the PIU
        always received all recommendations helpful to the project. They deserve much credit for
        all the work that has been pushed to the end.

     (c) Overall Bank Performance

        The overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The World Bank team always supported
        and encouraged the PIU staff by giving helpful advisory and technical assistance in
        implementing the project and solving problems.

6.2. Borrower

(a) Preparation

      The Project was reallocated the money from the original Rajabhat Component to be
      implemented by separate implementation unit. However, there was not enough number of
      staff, working spaces and facilities, and proper training provided prior to the effectiveness of
      the Project.

      Full-time staff was a major factor for the project implementation. Initially, a number of
      officials were assigned to work full-time on the Project. But they refused to come because of
      unclear career path The PIU finally has only four full-time staff. Two of them are civil
      servants and the other two are teachers from schools. The PIU found it difficult to
      implementing many Project activities simultaneously with such a shortage of staff. Activity
      such as procurement required an extra effort in dealing with unfamiliar Bank's procurement
      guidelines and regulations.

      Facilities: The PIU was not fully equipped with office space and facilities such as computers
      and facsimile machine. Although the Project money was allowed to purchase some office
      facilities, the Government's regulation did not facilitate the purchase in a timely manner.

      Skill: The project was very new to the PIU staff. But they were not sufficiently trained,
      particularly in these areas: project management, International bidding, contract management,
      logistics, tax exemption and warranty. English was one serious problem for most staff,
      especially the procurement and disbursement team. It took much more time translating to and
      fro between English and Thai.

(b) Government implementation performance

      The counterpart funds were allocated adequately to the project but not in accordance with
      the disbursement plan. They were to be used up within the first year where the project had
      not yet been approved by the Bank. The PIU had to spend a very long time preparing a lot of
      working papers for requesting the extension to the budget every 6 months and awaiting the
      approval. Each extension, the PUI had to carry on activities without counterpart budget for
      about 2 months.



                                            - 60 -

          Officers from the Public Debt Management Office provided regularly close technical
          assistance to the project. Their knowledge in both Thai and the World Bank regulations was
          accurate and helpful to procurement and disbursement.

          Office of the Auditor General should have better coordination and guidelines. English was
          also one problem. The PIU had to translate all huge number of document they requested into
          Thai. They mainly adhere to the Thai regulations, not the Bank ones. So it was difficult to
          administer the project against the two regulations.

     (c) Implementing Agency

          Officers who were responsible for procurement carried out the project work as a routine
          responsibility and English language is one of their problems which delayed the project work.
          The disbursement team was not flexible to unimportant details.

          PIU team was strongly committed and involved with all aspects of the project throughout the
          project implementation.

     (d) Overall Borrower Performance

          The overall Borrower performance was satisfactory.

 7. Lessons Learned

 Differences between regulations of the Bank and the RTG caused delays to the project. Without key
 staff for procurement and disbursement in the PIU, misunderstanding in the World Bank guidelines
 occurred and it was not easy to convince regular officers to give up the Thai regulations. All this key
 staff for procurement and disbursement should have been built up within the PIU and treated as new
 officers who needed to be intensively trained prior to the start-up of the project

          To avoid delays, the project implementation should have been directed by a full-time senior
 administrator who had clear understanding in all loan agreement provisions and strongly supported
 the project.

          To recruit officers for PIU, it is necessary to select those who are committed to the Project
 and, if possible, have specific skills in particular areas, such as procurement, accounting/finance and
 English.

Some suppliers did not maintain their contractual commitments relating to the quality of the
equipment, for instances, Jebsen&Jessen Marketing Ltd., under the contract SEQI/2546-3/003,
supplied centrifuge of which glass tubes were so thin that were broken at 5,000 rpm. The PIU
initiated a meeting between the supplier and schools' representatives. They agreed that the supplier
provide schools with 4 Pyrex tubes for 1 centrifuge.




                                                 - 61 -

- 62 -

