                                                                                                             99831




Modernizing Schools in FYR Macedonia for Better Learning Outcomes
There is something to celebrate this year in the schools of the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.f the new school year
for several thousand elementary and secondary school                Multimedia
students throughout the Former Yugoslav Republic of FYR
Macedonia. Third grader Ljubica attends a new school with a
new way of teaching and thinking. Although she may not
realize it right away, changes are happening all around her.

                           Ljubica Nikolova attends Toso
                           Velkov-Pepeto elementary school in
                           Kavadarci, a small town in the central   Modernizing Education in FYR
                           part of FYR Macedonia. Like              Macedonia for Better Learning
                           thousands of other students              Outcomes (Video)
                           throughout the country, she benefits
                           from reforms that began long before
                           she started going to school.
Ljubica Nikolova, third
grader at Toso Velkov-
Pepeto Elementary School  A decade ago, the Ministry of
                          Education and Science championed
a change in education policy. Its aim was to decentralize
education administration to municipalities, improve teachers'       Photo Gallery
professional development, expand access to education, and
improve the assessment and evaluation of the system. In             Related Links
2003, the World Bank joined FYR Macedonia's efforts to
bolster the quality of education through an Education               FYR Macedonia Education
                                                                    Modernization Project
Modernization project.
                                                                    World Bank in FYR Macedonia
The project is leaving its mark. There have been noticeable
                                                                Ministry of Education and Science
improvements throughout the education system: teacher
training has become a fundamental part of education reform      FYR Macedonia Country Partnership
and student testing is taking place at every level. The quality Strategy
of schools throughout the system is being evaluated; every
three years, each school undergoes a self-evaluation and submits an improvement plan.

In the Ministry of Education and Science's first three-year strategic plan, budget allocations for primary
and secondary education have tripled. The World Bank project and a parallel grant from the Dutch
Government have provided grants—of up to US$30,000 each— to each of the country's 427 schools.
The funds will improve school infrastructure, strengthen student safety and hygiene, and provide teacher
training and teaching aids.

With the help of the World Bank project, the Toso Velkov-Pepeto school established a school self-
evaluation system and structured a three-year development plan. It applied for and received grant
money, which it used to buy new teaching aids, and to replace old leaky windows with new ones. The
new windows are energy efficient and reduce the street noise that disturbs the students.

                           Schools can spend grant money on priorities they set for themselves. In
                         choosing priorities together, parents and teachers are forging closer bonds and
                         achieving greater mutual understanding. They are now working better towards a
                         common goal.

                         Little Ljubica may not be aware of all the changes that have happened, but she
                         will definitely notice the new way her favorite teacher teaches. Teachers all over
                         the country have been working hard to overhaul an old-fashioned way of
Zora Milkova, teacher,   teaching, one that hadn't changed much in decades. Zora Milkova, Ljubica's
Toso Velkov-Pepeto
Elementary School        teacher, now lets the children speak up in class to absorb information by
                         participating instead of listening.

                         As Nikola Todorov, Minister of Education put it, "a key objective of the project is
                         to achieve much more interactivity in the classroom, shifting away from a
                         system where a teacher lectures and asks students to repeat things towards a
                         system where learning takes place by comprehension."

                         As part of modernizing the country's education, the Ministry of Education is now
                         connected to all of the primary and secondary schools and to municipalities.
                         The system establishes a "school profile" for each elementary and secondary
Nikola Todorov, Minister school, with records on human resource management, available infrastructure
of Education and Science
of FYR Macedonia         and equipment, records and statistics on enrollment and dropout rates, and
                         other relevant analysis. It will provide access to reliable and up-to-date
information on the teaching process, students, and human resources.

To complement the country-level work on ways to assess students, the World Bank is supporting a
regional network of agencies to assess the quality and standards of education in South East Europe. A
regional meeting of this network took place in FYR Macedonia, in March 2010, co-sponsored by the
World Bank and the State Examination Center of the Ministry of Education and Science. Its aim was the
exchange of experiences and information about the use of the students' achievement assessments in
policy making.

When Ljubica skips up the street from the school to her home at the end of the day, she is part of an
improved school system. A system where half of the teachers in the country report improvements in
student achievement, and one third report noticeable improvement in student attendance and
participation.
