FYR Macedonia: Reforming Education System for Improved Learning Outcomes
                                                                                                         95880
                                                                                                         October 15, 2010



 EDUCATION

 FYR Macedonia: Reforming Education System
 for Improved Learning Outcomes




Overview
FYR Macedonia embarked on reforming its education system at the beginning of this decade.
                      moll
The aim was to decentralize education administration to municipalities, improve teachers’
professional development, expand access to education, and improve the assessment and
evaluation of the system. The government enlisted the World Bank’s aid to help with this
reform initiative, which has helped boost secondary school enrollments, establish training
options for teachers, and create a better learning environment in schools.


  Full Report—85 Pages
FYR Macedonia Country Partnership Strategy—PDF, 2011-2014


Challenge                                               MULTIMEDIA
In 2003, when the Education Modernization              Loading the player ...
Project was prepared, FYR Macedonia had a
highly centralized education system, constrained
by rigid norms and standards, and a very low
level of student achievements as evidenced by
international assessments. Under the Program
for International Student Assessment (PISA), an
assessment administered to 15 year olds, 87 %
of Macedonian students scored below level 3 (1
being the lowest and 5 the highest); only
individuals who attain a score equal to or higher
than 3 are considered able to function
adequately in a modern workplace. In the EU15,          MORE
by comparison, 40 % percent of the students                 Video: Agriculture Strengthening and
scored as poorly. Under the PIRLS assessment,               Accession
which assesses children in the fourth year of               Video: Doing Business in FYR Macedonia for
formal schooling on a range of reading                      Sustainable Employment and Growth 
comprehension strategies, fewer children
                                                            Video: Reducing Economic Distance to
reached the lowest acceptable benchmark in                  Markets through Better Roads 
Macedonia (55 %) than in all neighboring and
                                                            Slideshow: Reforming Education System for
EU countries that participated in the                       Improved Learning Outcomes
assessment.
On the political front, the country was just
emerging out of a civil conflict that lasted through the better
part of 2001, and that ended with the adoption of a                      More Results
Framework Agreement. This agreement prompted a new
education policy agenda for the Ministry of Education and
Science – to decentralize education administration to the
municipalities and improve learning outcomes.
                                                                     90 %
Approach                                                              The percent of offered
                                                                      programs that meet the
                                                                      schools’ priority training
                                                                      needs under the nationwide
The World Bank has been a partner of FYR Macedonia in                 education reforms.

the education sector since 1997. During 1997–2001, an
Education Rehabilitation Project invested in rehabilitation of


                                                                     18,800
34 elementary schools, representing 10 % of all elementary
schools. The project also piloted a modern and transparent
textbook procurement process, which for the first time
provided the students and their parents with the possibility to       The estimated number of
choose among several books for each school subject. The               secondary education children
                                                                      who are eligible for the Bank's
project also established an Education Assessment Unit.                Conditional Cash Transfer
                                                                      Project in 2008.

Through the 2003 Education Modernization Project, the
World Bank helped FYR Macedonia respond to the
challenges of creating a quality, decentralized education
system by:                                                            Following the positive
                                                                      experience developed through
                                                                      the Education project, the
       Establishing a three-stage quality assurance system            methodology and organization
                                                                      of national assessments and
       at the pre-university level: school self-evaluation,           Matura exams to test student
       followed by an integral evaluation performed by the            achievements were replicated
                                                                      in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
       State Education Inspectorate, and finally a nationally         and Montenegro. In addition,
       administrated large-scale assessment of student                Serbia, Azerbaijan, and
                                                                      Lithuania have expressed
       achievements, which provides data about the quality            interest in applying this
       of the education system at different levels. This has          approach.
       helped policy makers — at central and local levels —
       to make more informed policy decisions. At the same
       time, it enabled the central government to monitor the
       outcome of the education process through evaluations         MORE INFORMATION
       and assessments.                                               Country Partnership Strategy
                                                                      2011-2014
       Introducing strategic medium- and long-term planning
                                                                      World Bank FYR Macedonia
       at both the central administration and school levels.          web site
       The Ministry of Education and Science has developed
       a three-year strategic plan, and all schools in the
       country developed individual three-year School
                                                                    PARTNERS
       Development Plans with help from the project. These
       plans have become the basis for the School                     Government of the Netherlands
       Improvement Grants program financed by the project.            USAID

       Providing School Improvement Grants — of up to                 UNICEF
       $30,000 each — to all 427 primary and secondary
       schools in the country to improve school
       infrastructure, strengthen student security and
       hygiene, and provide teacher training and teaching
       aids.


       The Education Modernization Project was also closely linked to World Bank’s
       Development Policy lending, consisting of three loans approved between 2005 and
       2008. These loans supported the process of decentralization by establishing a
       procedure for the transfer of funds to eligible municipalities. These municipalities could
       utilize part of these funds to address the needs of the schools on their territory.



The World Bank also provided just-in-time advice in tertiary education and it helped organize
four conferences with representatives from the Ministry of Education and Science, as well as
rectors and deputy rectors from all public universities in the country. The goal was to assess
where the country’s tertiary education system stands with regard to integration with European
norms and standards. The conferences presented an opportunity for sharing knowledge with
representatives from Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Denmark, Bulgaria,
France, and other countries.


The inclusion and enrollment of students from the schools’ poorest families is supported by a
Conditional Cash Transfer Project, approved in 2009, which provided cash to poor families
with children enrolled in secondary education. These children — estimated at 18,800 in 2008
— are eligible for the conditional cash transfer benefits only on the condition that they are
enrolled in secondary schools and their attendance is not below 85 %.


Results
The Education Modernization Project helped create an environment for a quality, decentralized
education system in FYR Macedonia. To date, there have been significant improvements in the
education system: teacher training has become a fundamental part of education reform;
student testing is taking place at every level; school quality is evaluated throughout the system;
each school undergoes a self-evaluation process and submits a School Improvement Plan
every three years; the Ministry of Education and Science has developed its first three-year
strategic plan; and budget funding for development of the primary and secondary education
has increased threefold during the last decade. Specific achievements include:



       Secondary transition rate increased to 95 %, up from 85 %, between 2004 and 2008,
       and dropout rates decreased to 1.9 % from 2.1 % during the same period.

       A market for teacher training has been established, along with the criteria for
       accreditation and monitoring of teacher-training services. As a result, the offered
       programs are now meeting 90 % of schools’ priority training needs.

       The State Matura examination, part of the Quality Assurance System, was administrated
       for the first time in 2008 in all four-year general and vocational schools.

       According to a survey of all elementary and secondary schools conducted halfway
       through the project, 48.8 %t of school managers and teachers reported improvements in
       student achievements, 60.7 % saw improvement in the planning and assessment
       processes, 28.5 % confirmed that attendance and participation of students improved,
       and 46.4 % stated that the hygiene and safety of students improved.



Voices


      All teachers and the majority of students and parents
   participated in the preparation of the school self-evaluation
   document. The excellent teamwork of teachers had a significant
   positive influence on the way they operate, which now continues
   in all other projects and activities. And the participation of
   parents in the Education Modernization Project’s activities
   resulted in their stronger understanding of the school and its
   activities, and ensures their continued interest in participating in
   all subsequent activities and projects.


            — Ms. Bozanka Minova, Director of the secondary school
                                                ‘Gjorce Petrov’ in Kavadarci




     The most noticeable result is the change in behavior of the
   school personnel, both in terms of the quality of the education
   and the more proactive approach to solving the problems they
   face. School personnel and management are now more ready to
   organize themselves and find solutions to their local issues,
   which includes preparation of projects for donor support and
   community initiatives.


                 —Bojana Naceva, the leader of the World Bank team
                                         responsible for the project



Toward the Future
The reforms supported through the Education Modernization Project are now firmly embedded
in the education system. The Ministry of Education is working toward the introduction of an
Education Management Information System that will connect the Ministry with all primary and
secondary schools and with municipalities. The system will establish a “school profile” for each
elementary and secondary school, with records on human resource management, available
infrastructure and equipment, and records and statistics on enrollment and dropout rates, and
other relevant analysis. It will enable access to reliable and up-to-date information concerning
the teaching process, students, and human resources.
Based on the positive experience and visible impact of the first round of School Improvement
Grants for the elementary and secondary schools, the Ministry of Education and Science
decided to use the remaining project funds for the second round of grants intended for
elementary schools, applying the format and the structure of the first round. All elementary
schools are now eligible to receive a second grant, with preference given to rural schools.
These funds are being allocated on a competitive basis.
To complement the work done on assessing the student achievements (i.e., the Matura
exams), the World Bank is supporting a regional benchmarking initiative for education quality
and standards in South East Europe. A regional meeting was organized in FYR Macedonia, in
March 2010, co-sponsored by the Bank and the State Examination Center to exchange
information and experiences on the use of the results from the student achievements
assessments in policy making. Work will continue on bringing this initiative to fruition.
