Document or
The World Bank
FOR OmaCI4L USE ONLY
Rlut No. P-4137-Bu
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 9.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
August 12, 1985
Thi dxumdbum a riedui diddb     mii my be mi by rekU  emly In the pedwm.c of
their   d &hin.lb gm.b my m dhe.wbe   dihed w dw_ Wed  _           w       Izd |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Burundi Franc (Flu)
FBu 1.00 - US$0.0083 (October 1984)
USM 1.00 - FBu 120 (October 1984)
SDR 1.00 - US$0.989
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (a)   3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km) - 0.62 mile
1 sq kilometer (km2)   0,386 square miles
1 sq meter (m2) - 10.76 square feet
I cubic meter (m3) = 1.13 cubic yards
1 metric ton (ton) - 2,204 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
AIDR         Association Internationale de D6veloppement
BRB          Banque de la Republiqu- du Burundi
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
DEER         Department of Rural Water Resources and Electrification
FED          Fonds Europ6en de Dgveloppement Rural
GTZ          German Technical Cooperation
1CR          High Commissariat for Refugees
KfW          Kreditanstalt f ur Wiederaufbau
REGIDESO     National Water and Electricity Authority
SETEMU       Municipal Technical Services
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Burundi:  January 1 - December 31



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower   : Republic of Burundi
Beneficiary: Ministry of Rural Development
Amount     : SDR 9.6 million (US$9.5 million equivalent)
Terms      : Standard IDA terms
Project    : The main objectives of the project would be (a) to improve the
Objectives   quality and quantity of water provided to the rural
population, thereby improving public health and the living
conditions of women and children who often must walk long
distances to carry water; (b) to strengthen institutional
arrangements and introduce cost recovery measures for the
rural water supply sector; and (c) to increase the
responsibility of local commurrities in the maintenauce and
management of water supply facilities.
Project       (a) Rehabilitation and extension of rural aqueducts in 33
Description  areas; (b) Strengthening the organization of DHER and
Improving its management effectiveness through the provision
of technical assistance and equipment; (c) Training for DHER's
staff and for the comminal administrators, accountants and
water supply attendants. A program of sanitary education
would sensitize the population to the use of potable water.
Benefits     The major benefit of the proposed project would be the
availability of safe potable water for about 160,000 persons
living in scattered rural settlements, and an improvement of
their health. Quantification of health benefits due to safe
water supply is not possible as a variety of other factors
influence improvements in health such as health education,
availability of food, level of economic activity and hygienic
practices. The proposed project would be however a necessary
condition of success for public health programs in the areas
concerned. The project would also foster the development of
communal responsibility for infrastructure serving the local
population.
Risks       : The major risks concern the maintenance of the systems.
Experience in Africa has shown that the most promising results
are derived from delegating responsibility to the village
level and fostering the sense of communal ownership, while
providing adequate back-up services and technical assistance.
Questions still remain whether the beneficiaries can be
sufficiently motivated over a long time to make the necessary
monetary outlays, and to join into communal. efforts to
maintain and repair the system. The planned health
demonstration campaigns as well as the efforts to sensitize
local leaders and administrators should help to minimJize this
risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
thr oficia dutbiets ontents may not otherwe bediscoed without World Bnk authonzation



- ii -
Estimated                                    Local        Foreign        Total
Project Costs I/                                  -     US$ million
1. Rehabilitation & Extension of 33
Rural Aqueducts
-   Pipes                                0.090         1.715         1.805
-   Equipment                            0.025         0.482         0.507
-   Installation                         0.178         0.179         0.357
-   Earthworks                           0.562         0.062         0.624
-   Civil Works                          0.974         0.974         1.948
-   Miscellaneous                        0.063         0.064         0.127
Sub-Total                1.892         3.476         5.368
2.  Strengthening of DHER
-   Equipment                            0.017         0.233         0.250
-   Technical Assistance                 0.343         0.577         0.920
-   Operating Costs                      0.076         0.033         0.109
Sub-Total                0.436         0.843         1.279
3.  Training                                 0.052         0.044         0.096
4.  Consulting Services
-   Supervision                          0.198         0.198         0.396
-   Audit                                              0.080         0.080
-   Feasibility Studies                  0.208         0.678         0.886
Sub-Total                0.406         0.956         1.362
Total Base Costs                         2.786         5.319         8.105
Pbysical Contingencies                   0.227         0.417         0.644
Price Contingencies                      0.776         1.341         2.117
Sub-Total                1.003         1.758         2.761
Total Project Cost                       3.789         7.077        10.866
1/ Taxes are negligible.



- iii -
Financing Plan
Local       Foreign        Total
USS milion
IDA Credit                   2.42         7.08          9.50
Government and Communes      1.37           -           1.37
Total             3.79          7.08        10.87
Estimated Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year:           FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92
US$ million-
Annual                     1.1    1.8    2.1    1.8    1.3    1.1    0.3
Cumulative                 1.1    2.9    5.0    6.8    8.1    9.2    9.5
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:   Burundi Rural Water Supply Project.
Report No. 5445-BU
IBRD - 18670



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TRE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Burundi for the equivalent of SDR 9.6
million (US$9.5 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Rural
Water Supply Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1/
2.         The last Country Economic Memorandum on Burundi (Report 4784BU)
is dated December 26,  1984.   The following section incorporates  its
findings and conclusions. Country data are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.        Burundi is a small, land-locked country in East-Central Africa.
It covers a territory of 27,835 square kilometers (including its share in
Lake Tanganyika), and has a population of 4.4 million inhabitants. With an
estimated Gross National Product of US$240 per capita in 1983 it is one of
the world's least developed countries. The overall literacy rate was about
25% in 1982, morbidity is high, and basic social infrastructures are still
lacking. Limited natural resources, population pressure, scarcity of qua-
lified and experienced manpower, and isolation from main trade routes,
characterize this extremely poor country.
4.         Nearly 95% of Burundi's population is rural, living on scattered
homesteads. Bujumbura, the capital city, had about 165,000 inhabitants in
1982. Agriculture, mostly smallholders who grow subsistence crops and cof-
fee, contributes about 60% of GDP at factor cost and 90% of merchandise
exports.  A few large farms grow sugarcane, tea and quinine.  Other   natu-
ral resources are scarce. Identified minerals include nickel, phosphate,
petroleum, vanadium, some fluvial gold and calcium, but the economic justi-
fication for their exploitation is still uncertain. Burundi's manufactur-
ing sector is small, its growth being limited by the small size of the
domestic market, the country's isolation from trade routes, vulnerability
to disruptions in the external transport corridors, high transport costs,
and the lack of skilled manpower.
5.          The country is the second most densely populated country in
Africa, with a density of 155 per km2.   Population pressure has led to
declining soil fertility, soil erosion and deforestation. Although
1/ This part is substantially the same as that in the President's Report
on a Second Forestry project considered by the Executive Directors on
July 16, 1985.



-2-
agricultural statistics are poor, there are indications that, in recent
years, foodcrop production may have declined in per capita terms.   Net
population growth is projected at 2.7Z p.a. during the current decade (in
absence of migration, however, this growth would be higher; population
could triple in thirty years). The implications of this rapid growth for
health facilities, schools, employment and land availability are worri-
some. IDA has emphasized the urgent need to initiate family planning pro-
grams.   Although progress has been slow, the Government has recently
acknowledged the problem, and a first family health project is being
prepared (para. 28).
6.         The country has an adequate road network.  Main roads are pas-
sable all year.  There is an international airport at Bujumbura. Burundi,
however, remains dependent for most of its imports and exports upon two
transport routes to the Indian Ocean through neighboring countries. The
Northern Route, by highway from Bujumbura to Mombasa, Kenya, via Rwanda and
Uganda is 2,020 km. in length. This route suffers from poor road condi-
tions, and cumbersome administrative border procedures. The Central Route,
by Darge down Lake Tanganyika, then by railway to Dar-es-Salaam, is 1,425
km. It tends to be inefficient because of long delays in transhipment, and
disruptions on the Tanzanian railway.
7.         Transport charges on these routes add from 25 to 300 percent to
the landed cost of imports. The passage of goods through neighboring coun-
tries  is  hindered  by  factors  which  are  outside  Burundi's  control.
Interruption of crucial supplies hinders project implementation and forces
firms to hold large stocks of inputs and spare parts. In 1980, the Bank
prepared a study of the external transport connections of Burundi and
Rwanda.   A more extensive study covering Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda and
Eastern Zaire was carried out by UNCTAD. The findings and recommendations
of these studies have assisted the countries and donor agencies to agree on
action and priority  investments.    Several  bilateral  and multilateral
meetings led, inter alia, to the Northern Corridor Transit Agreement which
was signed in  Kampala in September 1984.  The agreement will result in
significant simplification of customs procedures at border crossings. On
the SouthernRoute, a number of external donors have been financing
improvements  in  physical  facilities  at  the  ports  of  Kigoma  and
Dar-es-Salaam. IDA is now preparing a report which will update and review
the actions taken so far and will help to define improved policies and
priority investments in regard to these routes.
Economic Developments: Goals and Performance
8.           In the mid-1970s, Burundi's economy benefitted from several
favorable factors: (i) a new Government, headed by President Bagaza, took
power in 1976, ending a period of political instability; (ii) the price of
coffee  in  the  international market tripled,  resulting  in  substantial
windfall profits and accumulation of public savings; and Ciii) the level of
foreign aid to Burundi increased considerably,  in support of the new
regime's stated commitment to economic development.  These circumstances
were considered a good omen for the Third Development Plan (1978-82), and
expectations for an improvement in living conditions were therefore high.



-3-
9.          The Third Development Plan (1978-82) included broad objectives
such as the transformation of the economic structure; increased mobiliza-
tion of resources for production; the reduction of poverty, together with
improved income distribution; and increased access to education and health
services. Performance during the Plan period was relatively good especial-
ly in comparison with most of the Sub-Saharan countries. On the average,
real GDP at market prices rose by 3.1% per year, with   gross domestic
investment averaging about 13.5% of GDP, far above the 8.0% share of the
previous five years.   The public sector took the lead in the investment
effort, accounting for 90X of the total. Foreign donors financed about 60%
of investment expenditures.    The growth in total value added was mainly
due to the growth in the modern sector stimulated by public investment
spending.   The output of the subsistence sector, which accounts for 85Z of
the population, grew more slowly than the population, widening the income
gap between rural and urban dwellers.         The effects of the investment
program on employment and foreign exchange earnings were limited:   most of
the projects were capital intensive and created few jobs; moreover, the
protection extended to the new ventures made them inefficient and heavily
dependent on imported materials, adding little to the country's foreign
exchange earning capacity.
10.       The financial situation, which had been kept under control during
most of the 1970's, deteriorated rapidly at the turn of the decade. This
was due to two main factors: Ci) deterioration in the terms of trade -   by
75% between 1977 and 1982 - reflecting a decline in coffee prices and a
doubling in import prices; and (ii) insufficient and delayed response of
the Government to the changing economic environment. To support the balance
of payments, the Government relied mostly on a run-down of its reserves; it
also increased restrictions on imports and on remittances of foreign
exchange abroad.   This did not prevent the current account deficit from
increasing significantly, to about 12% of GDP in 1982.  The Burundi Franc
appreciated significantly with respect to the currencies of the major trade
partners, reflecting the appreciation of the US dollar to which it was
pegged.
11.      These unfavorable developments had serious consequences for the
budget.  The terms-of-trade deterioration reduced import co-acity and led
to budgetary problems, as the Government's receipts from coffee exports
fell dramatically, necessitating cutbacks in imports and public spending.
These factors as well as the poor agricultural crops of 1982 led to a
decline in income, which spread into 1983 and resulted in a significant
slow down of economic activity. The consequence was a widening of the
resource gap, further depletion of reserves, and an accumulation of payment
arrears in the Government accounts.
12.       During the 1978-82 period, Burundi was able to obtain external
financing on very favorable terms.  Grant assistance was substantial.   In
addition, external public borrowing during the period carried an average
interest rate of only 2.4% and an average maturity of 31 years including
eight years of grace, implying a grant element of about 60x. Debt service
remained, therefore, low - at about 5% of exports of goods and nonfactor
services during 1978-82.   Bank projections  indicate, however,  a rapid
increase to about 20-25% in 1985-86 due to the -bunching- of debt
maturities.



- 4 -
13.            The lesson of the Third Plan period is that, given the
uncertainties and potential volatility of resource availabilities, Burundi
must establish development priorities and select investment projects
realistically and rigorously. The linkage between macroeconomic planning
and the selection of programs and projects needs to be improved.   The
private sector, nongovernmental organizations, and cooperatives must be
enlisted to the maximum extent feasible to participate in the development
effort. Project design must take into account the issues of sustainability
as well as management capacity.
14.        The year 1983 was the first year of the Fourth Development Plan
(1983-87), which incorporates an ambitious investment program of US$230
million per year (US$100 million more than what was achieved in the Third
Plan Period). To finance this program new fiscal measures were introduced,
notably increases of 50 to 100% in the rates of the transaction tax, income
tax and the tax on beer consumption, which in the last years had replaced
coffee as the single most important source of government fiscal revenue.
By mid-1983, however, there were signs of increasing financial stress. The
Government tried to cope with the situation by attempting to reduce the
investment budget by 45%, but this proved difficult.   While 80% of the
investment planned for 1983 was actually implemented, this was obtained at
a considerable cost: the public domestic debt increased substantially;
unpaid  obligations  accumulated,  representing  (at  end-1983)  301  of
Government spending; and the overall budget deficit reached 5% of GDP.
Economic growth, which had been negligible in 1982, remained marginal in
1983, with non-agricultural sectors registering an absolute decline.
15.        In response to this difficult situation, the Government took a
number of important actions. First, in November 1983, the FBu was delinked
from the US dollar (to which it had been linked since 1976) and pegged to
the SDR, with an implicit devaluation of about 30%. Second, in early 1984,
the producer prices of the main export crops were raised to provide
stronger incentives to producers.  The coffee price was increased by 6%,
the tea price by 36%, and the cotton price by 17%.  Third, in an attempt to
balance the current budget, the Government increased again the rates of the
most important taxes, froze public wages and salaries, improved the system
of tax collection, and cut the recurrent subsidies to the parastatals.
16.        According to preliminary and partial information, the year 1984
was another difficult year.   Agriculture was adversely affected by the
drought and foodcrop production may have fallen by as much as 5-6%. Cash
crop production did not fare better: coffee production fell from a high of
36,000 tons in 1983 to 27,000 tons, offsetting the increase in the output
of other cash crops, notably tea. The modern sector registered some growth
(owing to the partial liquidation of government arrears), but the poor
performance of the primary sector caused total GDP to stagnate.   On the
financial side, both external and internal imbalances were reduced
somewhat. As a result of the 1983 devaluation, Burundi's trade balance
improved. However, because of increased factor services payments and debt
servicing charges, the current account deficit remained above 12% of GDP.
The public finance situation also improved. Revenues were about 20% higher
than in 1983, reflecting (a) the impact of the devaluation on revenues from



- 5 -
taxes on international trade; (b) reinforcement of tax collection
procedures; and (c) improvement in the economic activity of the modern
sector. Current expenditures were maintained at about the same level, in
nominal terms, and capital outlays were rednced to their lowest level since
1979.  As a result, the budgetary deficit was reduced from FBu6.5 billion
to FBu3.4 billion (or from 5% of GDP to 3%).
Sectoral Developments and Issues
17.           The rapid population growth in a country which is already
overpopulated represents the most threatening constraint on economic deve-
lopment which Burundi has to face (para. 5).  The Government of Burundi
recently announced its intention to adopt a program to reduce population
growth and to establish, as a first step, an Interministerial Family
Planning Commission. One of the first tasks of this Commission will be to
plan and develop a population program. Implementation of this program will
require substantial cbanges in the health care system, which is presently
geared to hospital-based curative services in urban areas, as well as an
increase in public spending on health, which declined in real terms in the
last five years.
18.       In Agriculture, the most important issues for future development
relate to productivity increases, soil protection, and erosion control.
Fooderop promotion is essential in order to assure sufficient food supply
for the rapidly growing population.  Better utilization of the country's
traditional export crop potential and diversification into new export crops
appear crucial because of limited potential for other export activities.
Priority actions to be undertaken in agriculture are therefore: promotion
of  applied  research,  in  particular  on  foodcrops;    strengthening and
improvement of extension services; adequate and regular provision of
inputs; initiation of immediate and longer-term measures to prevent soil
erosion and protect the country's agricultural potential; and amelioration
of )rganization and operations of the three main export crop subsectors
(coffee, tea, and cotton), principally through improvement in the
management of agricultural public enterprises and through adequate pricing
policies. On the institutional side, further strengthening of agricultural
planning, and project preparation and monitoring capacity appears crucial
in order to assure effective design and implementation of projects.  The
concept of Regional Development Companies which the Government established
to promote integrated rural development, needs to be carefully reviewed in
order to adapt their design to the country's needs and possibilities, in
particular in terms of financial and human resources.
19.         Manufacturing Industry.  Industrialization is constrained by
limited natural resources, low productivity of the industrial labor force,
acute shortage of managers, as well as by the country's small market, low
purchasing power of its population, and difficult transport conditions
which increase costs. Burundi does offer, however, certain advantages for
industrial development: basic infrastructure is available in the major
urban center at reasonable costs; the country's land-locked situation
provides a natural protection for import substitution projects; and
domestic finance is readily available to manufacturers. During the 1978-82
period, protectionist measures created a favorable climate for manufac-



- 6 -
turing expansion. Manufacturing value added in the modern sector grew at
an average annual rate of nearly IO in real terms, reaching about 5X of
GDP in 1982.   Most of this expansion has been oriented to the domestic
market.   Production remains typical of the first generation of import
substitution, based on imported raw materials with exports limited to
processed coffee, tea, cotton and a few other items. Capacity utilization
is low because of the small size of the domestic market, high tariffs in
neighboring countries, and high production costs.   However, due to the
monopolistic situation enjoyed by most firms and the "cost-plus" system of
price control, the sector is profitable despite its inefficiencies. Since
the mid-1970s, the Government has established a number of public
enterprises to manage large industrial operations that the private sector
had avoided because of their complex management and large financial
requirements. Most -of these public enterprises have been created without
an adequate financial structure and/or sufficient qualified personnel and
are now a drain on  the  budget.   The Government has  recognized  these
problems and has taken some measures to deal with them: among these
measures were the elimination of virtually all recurrent subsidies to
public enterprises and the creation of a Public Enterprises Commission
(CGEP) to design restructuring programs for public enterprises, sell some
of them to private investors when possible, and phase out those unlikely to
become viable.
20.         Burundi faces a range of problems in the energy sector.   The
first and most important is the increasing scarcity of fuelwood and other
traditional fuels on which almost all of Burundi's population depends for
cooking and heating. Another is the high cost of oil imports whose value
rose by 450% between 1977 and 1982. In addition, only 2% of the population
has  access  to electricity.   The Government,  with assistance  from the
UNDP/3ank energy management program and other donors has started to imple-
ment a program (i) to improve forestry sector management and policy; (ii)
to reduce woodfuel demand by introducing more efficient cookstoves and
charcoal kilns; (iii) to develop the use of peat as a substitute for wood,
charcoal and petroleum products; (iv) to investigate alternative supply
arrangements for oil imports; and (v) to participate in the Ruzizi hydro-
electric regional project, improve the transmission network and establish a
strong unit for power planning.   Exploration is also underway to assess
Burundi's hydrocarbon potential.
21.         The Government has made considerable efforts to develop basic
education and increase primary enrollments. Average percentages of capital
and recurrent budgetary expenditures allocated to education are comparable
to those of other African countries. However, the primary enrollment rate
in public schools is only about 30%. Measures are therefore being taken to
increase the share of resources which are devoted   to basic education,
adopt cost saving measures at the secondary and university level, and
rationalize the use of existing facilities.  The Ministry of Education is
also providing assistance to improve the quality of education given in
private schools and adult social centers.



-7-
The 19B3-87 Fourth Plan
22.         The Fourth Plan projects real GDP (factor cost) growth of 3.7%
per year between 1982 and 1987 and total investments of FBu1O7.2 billion
(in constant 1981 prices), equivalent to about US$1,200 million.   Barring
an unforeseen and substantial improvement in coffee prices and a major
inflow of fresh financial aid, achievement of the Fourth Plan objectives
does not seem likely.
23.        The Plan assumes that 30X of the investment financing will come
from domestic sources (20% from the budget, 1OZ from bank credit and the
private sector) and 70X from foreign aid. This implies an annual average
of US$160 million in foreign aid for project financing, which is almost
twice what was received during the Thir-i Plan Period. This increase, while
not impossible, does not appear very probable; a more conservative figure
would be between US$100-130 million per year. The Government may therefore
have to cut the investment program, perhaps to some 60% of rhe original
amount.
Regional Development
24.         Regional development in Central Africa may offer new possibi-
lities to Burundi's economy. In September 1976, Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire
signed a convention establishing the 'Economic Community of the Countries
of the Great Lakes' (CEPGL). The Community, which has its seat in Gisenyi,
Rwanda, aims inter alia at stimulating and intensifying intra-regional
trade and cooperation in a wide range of activities. A major objective of
the Community is the exploitation of energy resources in the Great Lakes
region.  A first major project in this sector has been the Ruzizi Power
Hydroelectric Project, cofinanced by the European Development Fund, the
regional Development Bank (BDEGL), Italy, and IDA, which has just started.
A glass container project, which is the first major regional Industry to be
implemented under the aegis of the CEPGL, is also underway.  The three
countries have set up a joint development bank (BDEGL) to finance regional
development projects, in particular exploitation of methane deposits in
Lake Kivu and development of a fishing industry around Lake Tanganyil'a, and
participate in the East Africa export promotion zone.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
25.        The history of Bank Group operations in Burundi closely follows
the country's political and economic evolution since independence in 1962.
To the political turmoil of the 1962-1976 period corresponds a phase of
limited operations (coffee production, highway engineering and maintenance,
and water supply). With the period of increased political stability after
1976, came a rapid acceleration of IDA lending for agriculture and highways
as well as an extension of assistance to new sectors: fisheries, forestry,
education, industry and rural development. Financing was also provided to
improve the telecommunications and power network, explore the feasibility
of exploiting nickel deposits, strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of



8
Planning, and improve the management of urban services in Bujumbura. As of
March 31, 1985, Burundi had received 23 credits totalling US$196 million;
11 credits, totalling about US$49 million had been totally disbursed. IDA
is now one of the main sources of financial assistance to Burundi.
26.        Project Implementation.  Project performance is, on the whole,
satisfactory. The disbursement rate of 27% in FY82-84 is above the average
for countries of the Eastern and  Southern Africa Region.   Physical
implementation of infrastructure projects or components (roads, schools,
coffee  stations,  telecommunications)  has  been  satisfactory.    In  the
productive sectors the record is mixed.  While agricultural projects had
some significant success in increasing the production and quality of
coffee, and in increasing forcst areas, they have had limited impact on
increasing food crop production because of the absence of technical
packages which could be readily adopted by farmers and the lack of a
coherent policy on agricultural inputs and services.   The DFC Project
failed to develop a pipeline of smill enterprise projects in the industrial
sector, partly due to the weak management of the Development Bank.
Operation of the glass container project financed by IFC is affected by
depressed market conditions, competition from cheaper imports and the lack
of progress in the negotiations of preferential tariffs with Rwanda and
Zaire. The fisheries project failed largely because it was too complex in
relation to the institutional and management capacity of the implementing
agency.
27.         The impact of projects on institutional development has been
mixed. In some projects (e.g., Coffee), the presence of an effeccive tech-
nical assistance team led to a successful project implementation but did
not result in the strengthening of the capacity of local institutions. In
the education and telecommunications projects, on the other hand, efforts
in institution building and training have had good results, and the assis-
tance provided under the Second and Third Technical Assistance Projects has
strenghtened the capacity of the Ministries of Planning and Agriculture to
identify and address key policy issues; select, prepare and monitor pro-
jects;  and  improve  interministerial  coordination.    In  most  cases,
IDA-financed projects have provided a useful framework for policy
discussions and decisions. Discussions under the Education projects led,
inter alia, to the adoption of cost savings and cost-recovery schemes, a
pore  equitable  distribution  of  school  facilities,  reorganization  of
secondary education, and development of non-formal education for adults.
The urban project has accomplished major changes in urban programs over
the past several years including the lifting of rent ceilings and the
adoption of cost-recovery schemes.
28.        Country Assistance Strategy.  IDA's strategy is tc assist the
Government in developing and implementing a realistic medium-term
adjustment program while pursuing long-term development programs designed
to address the country's structural constraints.  Our policy dialogue will
be pursued through a Structural Adjustment Operation which is now being
prepared. At the same time, IDA will continue to support long-term efforts
to develop human resources, increase agricultural production, and develop
and maintain infrastructure which will have a significant long-term impact



-9-
on production, as well as policies and specific project choices which would
improve the equity of income distribution. Priority will be given to the
design of an action program to control population growth. We believe that
given the broad development needs of Burundi, and the need to strengthen
the management capacity of the Burundian administration, it is important
that the Bank remains active in the main sectors of the economy.   The
Government needs objective and coherent advice on the overall management of
the economy as well as sectoral issues and policies and no other donor or
institution (with the partial exception of the IMF) is in a position to
play this vital role.
29.        In order to implement this strategy, our economic work will in-
clude the review and monitoring of the investment program, studies to iden-
tify ways of increasing the efficiency of the public sector and a CEM
(FY86-87).   As to sector work, the emphasis will be on agriculture and
industry, in particular: (i) studies on land use issues, erosion control
and agroforestry, export crops promotion and financial aspects of
agricultural projects; and (ii) a tariff study and a study on long term
potential for industrial diversification and regional cooperation.   In
addition to the proposed SAL (para. 28), the lending program includes
projects in agriculture (agricultural services; fooderops; forestry; export
crops); human resources (education; health/population; water supply);
transport and communications; and energy. To complement IDA SAF resources,
a special effort will continue to be made to assist the Government in
securing cofinancing.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
30.        Water Resources.  Burundi is a hilly country with good rainfall
and two rainy seasons. There are many springs and surface waters which
could provide adequate water supply.   However, due to lack of sanitary
protection, the quality of the water provided by these sources is either
doubtful (unprotected springs) or quite poor (streams, marshlands). This
leads to the spreading of water-borne diseases which represent more than
70Z of all endemic diseases.
31.           Sector Organization.   Water supply services in urban areas
(Bujuinbura and 25 secondary centers) are the responsibility of REGIDESO, a
parastatal company which is also in charge of the generation, transmission
and distribution of electricity, and is supervised by the Ministry of
Public Works, Energy and Mining. Sanitation in Bujumbura, formerly under
the responsibility of a sanitation department attached to REGIDESO, was
recently transferred to a new public corporation, the Municipal Technical
Services (SETEMU). SETEMU is now planaing to extend its activities to the
15 main provincial towns. Since February 1979, water supply in rural areas
has been the responsibility of the Department of Rural Water Resources and
Electrification (DEER) of the Ministry of Rural Development. The DHER is
in charge of planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of
the rural water supply and electricity systpms. In 1982, the Government
started delegating responsibility for communal services and infrastructure
to the comaunes which levy taxes or charges to finance these- services.



- 10 -
32.         About 92% of the urban population (defined as communities with
3,000 people or more) is served through private connections or public
standpipes. In Bujumbura, 50,000 m3 per day are distributed to 6,098 pri-
vate connections (17% of the population) and 163 standpipes.  In Gitega,
the second largest town in Burundi, 89% of the population is served through
365 private connections and 20 standpipes. In the nine other towns already
operated  by REGIDESO, about 60,000 inhabitants are served through 284
private connections and 60 standpipes.  About 22% of the rural population
is served mainly through springs that are more or less protected and aque-
ducts. The rest of the rural population relies on unprotected springs and
polluted streams or ponds, which are at relatively great distance since
people generally live in the upper part of the hills while water sources
are at lower levels.
33.           Sector Development.   The Fourth Development Plan (1983-87)
includes water supply projects for an amount of US$35.07 million of which
US$10.75 million for rural areas, and sanitation projects for Bujumbura,
for a total amount of US$23.19 million.  The proposed investments are all
justified except for the Bujumbura sewerage project, which however is not
likely to be implemented due to lack of external financing. During Project
implementation, an updated three-year investment program for the water
supply sector would he submitted annually to IDA for comments (Section
3.03  (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).   Furthermore the
Government of Burundi would ensure that every investment in the sector is
technically, economically and financially justified (Section 3.03 (b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). Several water supply projects are
being implemented in urban areas:   Bujumbura, Gitega and 23 secondary
centers, all to be operated by REGIDESO. The major development projects in
progress for rural areas are the Ngozi-Kayanza project financed by Belgian
Aid and- the protection of 4,300 springs implemented by UNICEF with Canadian
and Australian financing.
34.         Sector Constraints.  The main constraints in the water supply
sector are the lack of financing and the shortage of qualified staff in the
ministries responsible for the sector, which results in inadequate
planning, poor economic analysis of projects and weak supervision. Rural
water  supply  systems  are  often  inadequately  maintained  and  local
authorities rely on the DHER which is not able to provide the required
services.   In the urban water supply sub-sector, the main issue is the
water tariff which is too low. A tariff study to be carried out in 1985,
financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB), is expected to propose a
new tariff level and structure which would be applied in 1985 for all the
water systems operated by REGIDESO (para. 46).   Water supplied through
public standpipes is metered and billed to the municipalities but municipal
arrears have accumulated because of shortage of municipal revenues.



- 11 -
Bank Operations and Objectives in the Sector
35.       The Bank's objective in the water supply sector is to support the
Government's efforts to supply the population with safe water at the least
cost.  A subsidiary goal is to improve the operating efficiency of the
principal sector institutions. The Bank financed, in 1966, a first water
supply project  (Credit 85-BU) for Bujumbura which contributed to the
establishment of REGIDESO. This company is developing into a solid insti-
tution and is now supported by French, German and AfDB financing.  The
Urban and Integrated Rural Development/Ngozi III Projects included a small
component to improve water supply systems in their respective areas. The
priority is now to develop rural water supply systems, strengthen their
management and establish cost recovery systems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed Project was prepared by DRER with the assistance of
consultants.  The project was identified in May 1979, and pre-investment
studies and final design were carried out by consultants with financing
from the Project Preparation Facility in October 1984. A report entitled
Burundi Rural Water Supply Project' (No. 5445-BU, dated July 22, 1985), is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were
held in Washington from June 18 to 20, 1985. The Burundian delegation was
led by Mr. Kabura, Minister of Rural Development. The main features of the
credit and project ar  given in the summary at the beginning of this report
and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
37.       The project's main objectives would be:
(a) to improve the quality and quantity of water provided to the
rural population, thereby improving public health and the Living
conditions of women and children who must walk long distances to
carry water;
(b)  to strengthen institutional and financial arrangements for rural
water supply; and
*               (c)  to  increase  the  responsibility  of  local  communities  in  the
maintenance and financial management of water supply facilities.



- 12 -
Project Description
38.       The proposed project would include the following components:
(a)  Rehabilitation and extension of rural aqueducts in 33 areas.
The works would include the reconstruction of sub-surface
intakes,  transmission  lines,  break-pressure  tanks,  storage
reservoirs, valve chambers, and public standpipes. Water would
generally  be  distributed  through  public  standpipes;  private
connections would supply in particular dispensaries, schools,
community  houses, traders  and  artisans.    In  selecting  the
components,  priority  was  given  to  the  rehabilitation  and
extension of existing rural water supply systems.   One system
only, Ruhehe, is entirely new. This respresents a total of 626
km of pipes and 585 standpipes.
(b)  Strengthening the organization of DHER and improving its manage-
ment   effectiveness   through   the   provision   of   technical
assistance and equipment;
Cc)  Training   for  DHER's  staff   and   communal  administrators,
accountants and water supply attendants. A program of sanitary
education, consisting in the projection of movies and slides,
would sensitize the population to the benefits to be obtained
from use of potable water.
(d)  Consulting Services:  (i)  engineering services for construction
supervision; (ii) audit of DHER's accounts; and (iii) feasibil-
ity studies for about 40 additional rural water supply systems.
Cost Estimates
40.        The total cost of the project is estimated at US$10.87 million,
of which US$7.08 million, or -approximately 65Z, represents the foreign
exchange component.   Base cost estimates are expressed in- prices as of
early 1985.  Costs of works were estimated on the basis of consultants'
feasibility studies and detailed design for the first lot of works.  Since
goods and equipment for project purposes would be imported free of customs
duties and internal taxes, base costs are net of tax liabilities.  Taxes on
locally procured goods (mainly cement and fuel) estimated at 6% of local
costs have been included in the estimate.  Physical contingencies of 12%
have been added to the cost of the works. Price contingencies for local
costs have been estimated as follows:  18% in 1985, 12% in 1986 and 1O0
from 1987 onward;   price contingencies for foreign costs are basod on
estimates  of  international inflation as follows:   8% in  1985, 9% in
1986-88, and 7.5%  in 1989.   In addition, the effect of the estimated
difference in the domestic and international inflation rates on the
exchange rate of the FBu to the US$ over the construction period of the
project was computed and added to the foreign cost in the FBu tabulation.



- 13 -
Financing Plan
41.           The proposed IDA credit equivalent to US$9.5 million would
finance 87% of total project cost, representing 100% of foreign exchange
costs requirements and 64% of local costs (US$2.4 million equivalent). The
commnes to be served by the facilities of the project would contribute to
about 5% of the works, or US$0.27 million (pars. 51).  The Government's
contribution would amount to US$1.1 million equivalent.   The Government
would make the proceeds of the credit and its own contribution available to
the executing agency (DHER) and to the Communes as grants. To ensure the
availability of adequate local funds, IDA would be given the opportunity to
review the DHER annual budget for the next fiscal year by August 31 of each
year (Section 3.03 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement), and the
Government would maintain a Project Advance Accou-nt in which an amount of
at least FBu 25 million would be deposited following the signature of the
Credit Agreement.   Starting on January  1, 1987, the Government would
maintain in the account a balance of at least FBu 40 million (Section 3.01
(b)(ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Implementation
42.        DHER would implement the project.  To carry out the final design
studies including detailed survey and hydrogeological works, DHER appoLnted
AIDR as engineering consultants.  Another contract is under negotiation
with the same consultant for assistance in evaluation of tenders, drafting
of contracts and supervision of construction. Construction works would be
executed in three successive lots.   Detailed designs were completed in
April 1985 for Lot 1 (Ngozi Region), bids would be called by October 1985
and contracts awarded by March 1986. The works would be started in July
1986 for Lot 2 and January 1988 for Lot 3, after completion of Lot 1. Not
more than six systems would be under construction at the same time, in
order to facilitate construction and supervision. The communes concerned
by the project would contribute to the construction mainly for earthworks
and supply of raw materials (sand, gravel).
Training
43.        Training sessions would be held at an existing training center
for municipal administrators and for water supply attendants.  On-the-Job
training would be provided for communal accountants by the general
accountant of the project unit and for DHER personnel by the experts of the
project unit and of the consultant's supervision team. DHER engineers and
technicians would attend training seminars abroad.  Health demonstration
campaigns would be conducted to sensitize local leaders on the benefits of
improved water supply.



- 14 -
Procurement
44.           Equipment, pipes and civil works would be grouped in three
bidding packages corresponding to each of the three lots of works, and pro-
cured under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines except for civil works of two systems in each lot.   Separate
bidding documents would be prepared for civil works of these six systems
in  order  to  encourage  the  participation  of  local  contractors.    For
equipment, a margin equal to the applicable customs duties and other import
taxes, with a maximum of 15%, would be applied to the bids of qualifying
local manufacturers, if any. For civil works, a preference of 7.5% would
be applied to bids from local contractors.   Construction of works would
involve only three main contracts, one for each of the three lots of works,
plus possibly six contracts with local contractors.  Every contract above
USS300,000 would be subject to prior review from IDA.
Disbursement
45.         Credit funds would be disbursed as follows:  for materials and
equipment, including pipes, 100 Z of foreign or of local ex-factory
expenditures and 80% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; for civil works, 80 percent of total expenditures; and for
consultants' services and training, 100 percent of foreign and 80 %of local
expenditures.   AllI disbursements would be fully documented.   To ensure
prompt availability of funds from the Credit for the project, a separate
Special Account (revolving fund) would be established in the "Banque de la
PEpublique du Burundi' (BRB), or a commercial Bank acceptable to IDA with
an initial deposit by IDA of US$0.5 million to be periodically replenished
as needed (Section 2.02 (b) and Schedule 3 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Implementing Agency
46.         DHER is headed by a Director who is appointed by the President
upon nomination  by  the  Minister of Rural Development.   A  Management
Committee comprising DRER Director, his deputy and the heads of its
technical, administrative, and finance divisions coordinates DEER's
operations. A Consultative Council headed by the Director General of the
Ministry of Rural Development is responsible for coordinating DHER's
activities with those Ministries and Government agencies having an interest
in rural water supply and rural electrification.   The Ministry of Rural
Development exercises a control over DHER's operations in particular with
regard to i-nvestments and staffing.   There is no clear delineation of
responsibilities between DHER and REGIDESO which provides water supply and
electricity services in the secondary and tertiary centers in the country's
interior.  However, this question will be addressed within the context of
an AfDB financed study covering tariffs and institutional aspects, which is
about to start.   Terms of reference of this study were reviewed by the
appraisal mission and found to be adequate. A Steering Committee, composed



- 15 -
of representatives of DHER, REGIDESO and other agencies concerned, would
monitor the carrying out of the study. The Government would furnish to the
Association the reports emanating from the study, would exchange views
thereon with the Association and would not take any action based on the
study, nor modify the present organization of the water sector without
prior consultation with the Association (Section 5.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
47.          The organizational structure of DHER would be strengthened.
Under the Project, the UHER would be divided into four departments:  (i)
water supply;  (ii) electricity;   (iii) operations and technical support;
and (iv) administration and finance.   To alleviate the shortage of ex-
perienced staff and provide training, three experts would be recruited:  a
water engineer as project coordinator, a maintenance engineer and an ac-
countant.  Because of its importance to project implementation, the ap-
pointment of the Project Coordinator would be a condition of credit effect-
iveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).   The
maintenance engineer and accountant would be appointed within four months
of credit effectiveness (Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Terms of reference were agreed upon during negotiations.
DHER's Finances
48.       DHER's financial reporting system is primarily geared to ensuring
compliance  with  the  overall  limits  for  recurrent  and  investment
expenditures as set forth in the Government's budget and since customer
charges are insignificant and relate only to electricity operations, there
are neither consolidated nor separate balance sheets or profit and loss
accounts for the water supply and electricity operations. Consumer billing
is limited to DHER's electricity operations in five centers where the same
tariff as REGIDESO is presently used.  REGIDESO's tariffs were recently
increased by 20%, which is adequate, and their structure is being
reviewed.  In addition, new customers pay a lump sum for the installation
of new connections.   To what extent meters are  regularly  read, bills
distributed and amounts collected is difficult to assess at present, as the
customers are scattered in remote centers in the country's interior.
Furthermore, in an effort to promote the consumption of electricity DHER
initially installed connections without the upfront payment and did not
insist on regular payment of electricity bills. This has created arrears
of about FBu 1 million out of which 80 Z are from electricity sales and 20
X from connection charges. While the major part (70 Z) of these arrears is
due by private customers, 30 Z is due by Government agencies.  One of the
major tasks of the accounting expert would therefore be to assist DHER to
address this issue and to improve DHER's billing, collections and
accounting as well as its financial reporting and capital expenditure
accounting systems.  During negotiations assurances would be sought from
the Government that, starting in FY86, DHER will produce separate accounts
(income statements, fund flow statements, and balance sheets) for its water
and electricity operations in sufficient detail to permit assessment of the
cost of its main activities in each sector (Section 4.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
49.          Since the combined revenues for electricity charges and meter
installation represented only 1 percent of DHER's operational budget in
1983, DRER depends on Government appropriations for its operations and
investments.  The Government would continue to ensure the availability to
DHER of such funds as shall be required for its electricity operations and
would periodically review the adequacy of the level of charges for
electrical services in relations to their costs (Section 5.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The proposed project will represent a first
step in the introduction of cost recovery measures for water services
(para. 51).
Audit
50.       So far an external audit of DHER's annual accounts has never been
carri-d out. Although the accounts of URER are subject to control by the
Commissioner of Accounts (Cominissaire aux Comptes) and the Directorate of
Inspectors of the Ministry of Finance, the first control by the Directorate
of Inspectors was completed only in January 1985. Under the project, (l)
DHER's  accounts  would  be  regularly  audited  by  independent  auditors
acceptable to the Association from FY85 onward; and (ii) the audit report
including the auditor's certificate would be forwarded to the Association
within six months of the end of eacn fiscal year (Section 4.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Cost Recovery
51.    Cost recovery schemes for municipal services have been successfully
established in the Municipality of Bujumbura under the Urban Project. Under
the proposed project, each commune would contribute at least 5 percent of
the project construction cost in the commune, which would represent the
equivalent of about 10% of the average annual village expenses, and the
Ministry of Rural Development would ensure that adequate arrangements are
made therefor (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In
addition, the communes would finance recurrent expenditures, estimated at 4
to 6 percent of the monetary income of the directly benefitting
population. The charges to be collected from the beneficiaries would cover
all operating and maintenance expenses as well as contribute to a fund to
be utilized to cover major repairs and systems expansions.  (Section 5.03
(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The level of charges would
be reviewed in October of each year to determine their adequacy
(Section 5.03 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The village
council would, through the local administrator, collect the water charges
and house connection charges which will be deposited into a separate
account with the Savings Bank of Burundi (Section 5.03 (c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Once the rehabilitation and/or expansion of
the water supply systems have been executed by DHER, the systems will be
handed over to the village councils who will be in charge of operating ard
maintaining them.



- 17 -
Accounting, Billing and Auditing
52.        All finAncial traosactions and accounting of each commune are
under the supervision of a provincial inspector who reports to the Ministry
of Interior, accounting and control procedures would be reviewed by the
technical assistance team in order to assess their adequacy and propose and
implement modifications as and where necessary.   A new system of meter
reading, billing and collection of the water charges to be operated and
maintained at the local level, would also be designed by the technical
assistance team. Training of local staff (local administrators as well as
local accountants) in the application of these procedures and systems would
be carried out in seminars to be organized partly on a country-uide basis
and partly at the regional level.   The technical assistance team would
alsoorganize seminars for the provincial inspectors on accounting and
control procedures.  As the auditing of the accounts of the communes by
external auditors would not be practical, the control procedures within the
Ministry of Interior would be strengthened, and accounts would be verified
annually by the Inspectors of the Ministry of Finance. Reports related to
the inspection of the accounts would be made available to the Association
for its review and comments. (Section 5.04 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement.)
Project Benefits
53.         The major benefit of the proposed project would be the avail-
ability of safe potable water for about 160,000 persons living in scattered
rural settlements. Quantification of health benefits due to safe water
supply is not possible as a variety of other factors influence improvements
in health, such as health education, availability of food, level of
econowic activity and hygiene. The proposed project would be however a
necessary condition of success for any public bealth program In the areas
conoerned.   The project would also foster the development of comunal
responsibility for infrastructure serving the local population.  Moreover,
tbe project would result in considerable improvements in the planning,
implementation, and supervision of rural water systems at the country
level.   This institutional strengthening should provide  the basis for
extending and replicating, in the future, the construction, operation and
maintenance of rural water systems.
Project Risks
54.       The major risks concern the msaintenance of these systems.  Expe-
rience in Africa has shown that the most promising results are derived from
the combined effects of delegating responsibility to the village level and
fostering the sense of communal ownership, while providing adequate back-up
services and technical assistance.   Questions still remain whether the
beneficiaries can be sufficiently motivated over a long time to make the
necessary monetary outlays, and to join into communal efforts to maintain
and repair the systems. The planned health demonstration campaigns and the
efforts to sensitize local leaders and administrators should help minimize
this risk.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.         The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Burundi and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
56.        Special conditions of the project are listed in section III of
Annex III of this Report. A special condition of effectiveness would be
the recruitment of the Project Coordinator.
57.         I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.         I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August   , 1985
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



-19-                                                 Annex I
- ALE 19                                         Pae8  1 of 5
ff^~~~~~ moats. umcmes p   s- s U
C_~ ~~~inuo --                                                           - 0inn UMR
nra                        n.m~~D   27.3          27J          
CWLUa                              15.6     13.0          23.2         
eVRC*V   (IMP                         60.0    110.0         2100                2/49.1              11IU.9
(Klli   Or oIL EQITLEK              6.0       7.0          15.0               62.8                5.0
IOILAlbi.Bi3-Ui  (IUUIUU          3g27.0   3250.0        4346.0 
DURB    7 eOUO  Cs or TOTAL)        2.2       2.2          2.43/              19.2                 D8.7
POV^ULAZNIII WRi 2000 (NELL)              ...
sstAfOhliA  et POILU    HLaL)                            26.7*
POWLATIO s1A31                                            1.3                  *
POPULATION 0153KW ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ L   IDIE  MrA                 NIM    =
Ps q. UZ.                      105.2    120.4         L5LOY                322.                25.3
PE  SQ. Ut. 1AC. AN D            138.2    173.2         130.0               119.2               111.5
PAPULAWOS CE S       E ()
0-14 US                          423      4.6           412                 45.6                45.4
1544 US                          54.6      52.2          52.1               51.5                 51.1
65 AND * 0     .$                  2.9      2.0          2.1                  2.               12.9
IOULTXO   Urz   NAT CIIn
TCTAL                              1.6      1.3           2.2                 2.8                 2.3
QUII                               t.s      L.3           2.3                6.2                  5.2
cPLAt hIO  RAE!T (CI t30S0)         45.2     46.3          46.5               4.6                  47.0
CRE DOS RATEO C   R OF TOTAL)       25.2     24.3          1.2                17.1                 15.2
S0306  RONAIN RIATE                 2.7       2.9 H          S                  .2                  2.2
a.    L    ulS)               ..        ..           .       
UES(E 01 NAED CE)                ..       .....* 
Froa OLm  aze
P1969-2S.)                        103.0    100.0         91.0               .35.6                91.4
U      u CAsPTA SeEM4? er
5 ANS QZ 0 E       e0) 9.0    12                         95.0                 .4                 se.
PROTIS (CUES  DaT)                59.0     6.0           60.0               49.9                56.7
or MUlCt itADPLE                29.0     21.0          21.0 f              18.5                17.D
altO CALS 1I*) D.AIR R!             31.0     29.4          25.5               23.8                 1.
rc EUPECT.  Lac (ETNCEAS)          43.6      41.5         46.5                48.4                51.7
IRAN  1AWN. RITZ (PER 230)          2.0     13.0         132.0               117.5               102.7
ACES TO SAFE MAI (ZIt ON)
TOTAL                               ..       ..            ..                21.3                35.6
11EA                                ..     77.0          94.0 I             61.5                 54.1
RUERA                               ..       ..            ..               14.2                 2.2
ACCESS TO  UCL DISPOSAL
- t2     Zo er SL ATON
TOTAL                               ..       ..            ..               32.0                   .
URBAN                               ..     96.0         95.0 /d             69.2                   .
RURAL                               ..       ..            ..               24.6.
-NOPKLATOr PE PIESICt:N          93900.0  5ssaa.o       45020.0 /          2747 7               11346.2
O. C PE NRIN      SON O0.0   790o.0                       6.07                3396.2             2241.9
PM0. PEA NOSPITAIL BED
OALS                             900.0    740.0           ..               1009.0               96.9
r                     tlRAN                            30.0    110.0            *.               3n9.2               36.7
REAl .                          3610.0    1706.0           ..              3094.0              *012.1
AUICSSTIO  S PE  OSPITAL RI 1         .        ...
AURS SmZ  ON OUEasOLO
TOTAL                               ..       ..           *.3..
maim                                       77:0'         4:; Ld517& .. ..s
RURAL                               ..       ..            .37.                                   .
AWERG NO. 0r NERSORS/PDCN
TOTAL                               ..       ...
mJ                                  ..       ..           .
RUAL                                ..       ...
-                ~~~~~ACCSS TO ElECT. CE ON RSIUDCRJ
TPOPL                               ..       ..           0.6 Id.
- -                t~~URA                              ..        ..         22.5 71                ..
.rAL .,                                                     3 I
:~~~~~~~ ~RA :,s 7-.



-20-                                            Annex I
TA.LS L 3                                       Page  2 of 5
_C  -  I fhaT Jz         SU?
MTI                  (CUNT  CENT UTMTE 
n&  Igloft    uZCZM       ~~~LOW I30011 AFRICA     NICOLE INCaW
3S =TDITLk       300T3 0o 3*3416    AIISCA 6. OF 3AM7
*33U33  RIIOLUlST UAfTlS
pSINAI!   TT"                    13.0      29.0         22.0               69.2                91.0
IALZ                   27.0     3.0           40.0                8.m                go.s
VUIALB                  9.0     19.0          25.0               57.6                73.6
SUNCUAY: TOTAL                    1.0      2.0           3.0               13.1                17.4
NALE                    1.0      3.0           4.0               17.6                23.7
FINALE                  1.0      1.0           2.0                6.3                14.1
VOCATIONAL CZ OF BECONCAW)         35.0     13.6          15.7                7.2                 5.3
PUIPIL-TBACER RATtO
pSNAR!                           26.0      37.0         39.0                46.1               38.6
IRcONDRT                         15.0      11.0         16.0 L             25.9                24.3
LDaLT LITEACY RATS CZ)             13.9 Lf    ..          25.0               44.3                35.6
minuo
PASSEf333 CMS/fUS05l POP            1.0      1.1           1.3 p              3.6                20.7
aIC D ICE VRTOUSAN FoP               .. P19.4             36.5               41.9               100.8
N uCvhS/Tw           Por             ..       *.            ..                2.0                16.5
ISFPf t'ADY G0EAL
ICRESr) CIRCULATION
PR TousIAD POPUAlTIOE              ..      0.1           0.4 /a             5.4                17.2
CIN* ANIMUL ATTENNCU:CAPIU          0.1 /f 0 0.0           .0                 1.4                 0.3
TOTAL IJW LA FORC (2TIOUS)       1534.0   1676.0        2032.0
youE  ECEn)                      45.9     45.3          44.6               36.5                33.8
ASUCULTURE (P31Cr)               90.0      37.0         64.0               77.4                57.1
1I30SRY (CERCET)                  3.0      4.0           5.0                9.3                17.4
PAMTCIrAIIOI RAZ (POtEN)
TOTAL                            52.4      50.0         46.8                41.0               36.3
AtzE                             59.3      56.0         53.2               52.1                47.6
FEL!                             46.9      44.4         40.6               30.2                25.1
WZCIDIC DEPENDENC  RATIO            0.9      0.9          1.0                 1.2                 1.4
WNC    D LWUTZ  DI
PORCEET OF PUATm iucMz
EEIVED By
aas? 5X0  IOUSUO                   ........
21035 202 OF WOlUSEOLS             ..       .
LOWST 20S OF  U     S              ..       ......
LOWEST 401 OF WOOhuIDLUS           ..
STElAD ASDLUI! FovnT 101
LZVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
o03A5                              ,,        ..        213.0 /b           168.3               525.3
RURAL                              ..       ..         136.0               90.8               249.0
ESTIMTED RELAT    POWYE   1nCM
LEVEL CUS$  R CAPITA)
uWz                                ..        ..          ..               107.7               477.4
aDmt                               . .      *..         37.0 /h            65.0               186.0
ESTAT  POP. BELO ASoSuO
POVEl?? INCOME LEVEL tX)
U                                  ..       ..          55.0 /b            34.7
nMAL                               ..       ..         o5.0 7F             65.4
Lor AVCLULE
NOT APPLICABLE
NOTSES
/a  The group awerqaa for each iadiator are ppul-tioa pu-wgbted aritb_tlc means. Coverce of countries swung the
Indicators depend. on ewalabiltty of data an La not unform.
lb  Unoss otherwis  noted. 7ca for 1i6V refer to any yr betwee 1959 end 1961; -Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and date for foNt Recent Eatimte botwe 1980 end 19U2.
/I  1977; Id 1979; /t 1975; f 1962; 1L 1976; A 1976.
IeffolnuLr fiurm" ref1et ghs amot mma awaijala aenet"aee;s.IN   1984
1240; 2/5;  3/ 155.



Ai
rII 5 |I11 Ii     IJ4i II':  Il} jI 4II'  l'*"~~i*' 2' il~m UI
M1ju;'1i   I    fA    I11sa8i Ifj
~~~ !tih  III,  g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f II ala~~~~~~~~ 



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k 
I  -'   *8~~~~.~  qq                   Ii  F~~TA  O
ii   iii ;5!  51lt LI
*  w!i i 1                                                      9   cf' | tuX, ,|%jfI t1'1 fti ef
..~ ~ 1.                                                                                                   , j.
..~~~~~                                                                                           ~ .  . 1.
_~ ~ ~~I                                         j.Ji                                                ; ,; .'', ji,'



- 23 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 5
Pr  an PS                   1978      1979        1980        1981         198      1983
xay Mi QuuH1                        9,696    11,034      12,681      15,698      15,378   19,452
Bonk cedit tv Cental Gogermit    1,508        3,860       4,496       7,178       9,344   12,355
Bak crdt  to Prvte S r              5,835     8,367       9,793      12,760      12,976   14,570
(Fercrtae or I      Uber)
1yand Qzai-Miyi Z of (QP             17.7      15.7        14.7        17.6        16.8      18.9
Aul percaitage cEs In:
1oomwpjm Imlei                      27.3      25.5        12.3        12.0          5.7      8.3
Uik cradit to 1bbic Sectw           715.1     156.0        16.5        59.7        30.2     32.2
Bik CredLt bo Pdvate Sector         115.0      43.7        17.6        29.6         0.3      12.3
B__A__ aF P_ ll!                           ;mMAIS EMM  (AVREM   1978-83)
1979   1980   19812   19a  13              U;S Eo     z
o,rts (gafs)                      112     74      89    108  100   Ctfee                 70.5      87.8
iwports (glfaf)                   193    205    208    261  257    btton                  2.4       2.9
Reur  gap (deficit                                                  Ta-)  -   ai i l      2.2       2.8
AL. otber cavdities 5.2       6.5
oterest .       s(no)              4       9      7       3    4
T*bo                              -14    -16    -24    -31  -29               mmIL    -D.         100.0
t trasfe                           34     47     48      50   45
A1m cs c        ea7    -91 n88   -11 -
rec feip inwuimuts                  -      1       1      2    1   EIxaR        mm,        31, 1983
Cmapzl8raszs                       25     35     39      37   40
,jet  ZZ bR  d. a/                39      41     29      51   94
Dis !rments                      42     45      32    5   98                                  US
AmrtUatcln                        3      4       3      3   -4    bblic Debt, -m. gusmateed  284.0
Otber caital (net)                 -    -10      -6      -3   16          1       PdLvate Debt      -.
O!r I    mE                      -11       7     -5      11  -17    btal outstming & Liub.
Increase in  t reserv(-            4       6     32      34  -16   IzTr mIE  MR           CR 1983 b1   z
&ow8 reru  (enl year)              86     90      72     42   54   Ekblil Debt. IxeL gmiteei   10.0
NMIGicutedPdmate Debt
]=qoets ofpecroawPrucEts           13     25      32     30   29      a tstaaling addlsb.
IDA LnI,  lgarch 31, 1985
(liWio  US Dllars)
ntsOF Eg & Dlsaursed          137.73
MEl1 -  a 90  19764bvember 23, 1983                                 nuisburse                       58.24
S1- EJu123   lbw  23,  9-pet                                            is                         195.97
81 1) Debt flqormgm Systes
b/ htln of Debt SerwsL   to lots  of Goods and Nmafatr Sergices. 
.. N available.



- 24
Annex II
(Page 1 of 2)
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIOiS IN BMURDDI
A. STATEMNT OF BANK LOANS AMD IDA CREDITS
EXPRESSED IN US DOLLARS
(as of March 31, 1985)
Amount 
Loan or                                                    US$uillion
Credit                                                (less cancellations)
Number      Year   Borrower       Purpose          Bank   IDA 2/  Undisbursed
One loan 1/ and eleven credits fully disbursed    4.8  48.73
918 NU 3/   1979   Burundi    Forestry             -       4.30      0.09
976 NU      1980   Burundi    Second Educatioan    -      15.00      0.72
1049 BU     1980   Burundi    Urban Development  -        15.00      6.75
1058 BU     1980   Burundi    Telecommunications  -        7.70      2.18
1132 BU     1981   Burundi    Third Highway        -     25.00       0.29
1154 BU     1981   Burundi    Nickel Exploration -        4.00       0.59
1165 SU 41  1981   Burundi    Kiriuiro Rural
-  Development       -      19.30      9.92
1192 NU     1982   Burundi    Integrated Rural
Dev./Ngozi III    -     16.00      10.73
1230 BU     1982   Burundi    Local Construction             -
Industry          -      5.20       3.14
1358 BU     1983   Burundi    Third Education      -     15.80       7.82
1419 8U     1983   Burundi   Ruzizi II Regional          15.00      11.81
1456 BU     1984   Burundi    Third Technical
Assistance               5.10       4.20
Total                               4.8   196.33     58.24
Of which has been paid         4.8      0.36
Total now outstanding          0.0   195.97
Anount sold 1.72
of hbich has been repaid 1.72
Total now held
by Bank and IDA                0.00  195.97
Total undisbursed                                58.24



- 25 -
Annex II
(Page 2 of 2)
B. statment of INC investments
(as of March 31, 1985)
Type of           Atmot In USS Million
Year      Obligor        BSiness           Loan      quty   Total
1981     Verreries du   Glass container   4.8    0.8          5.6
Burundi
Total gross coitments less
Cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                      4.8    0.8        5.6
Total coItIents am
held by INC                               -4.8    0.8       5.6
Total undIsbursed                           0.1    0.1        0.2
1/ Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi for the
Improvement of the BujuuburA-NIrarUva road ald the expansion of the lake
port of Bujuiba. The loam which w  guaranteed by the Kingdom of
Belgium ha been fully repaid.
21 Prior to exchage adjutments.
31 The IDA credit was co.lented by an EEC Special Action Credit of
US$1.2 million.
41 Includin  a NORAD Grant participation of US$5.8 million.
JD 



- 26 -
Annex III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
BURUNDI
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification                   May 1979
(b)  Project Preparation              1982 - 1984
(c) Appraisal Mission                 October 1984
(d)  Negotiations                     June 1985
(e) Planned Date for
Credit Effectiveness           December 1985
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
- Engineering consultants for evaluation of tenders, drafting of
contracts, and supervision of construction (para. 42).
Section III: Special Conditions
- A Revolving Fund (Special Account) in foreign exchange would be
financed from the Credit (para. 45). In addition, a Project
Advance Account in local currency would be established with an
initial deposit of FBu 25 million and replenished up to FBu 40.0
million at the beginning of each year (para. 41).
A three-year investment program would be submitted annually to
IDA for review and comment (para. 33).
- Government would consult with IDA on any proposed reorganization
of the water supply sector (para. 46).
- Each commune would contribute to at least 5% of construction cost
and the Ministry of Rural Development would ensure that adequate
arrangements are made therefor (para. 51).
- Water supply charges would be reviewed annually. Charges would
cover operating and maintenance expenses and contribute to a fund
for repairs and expansion (para. 51).
- Charges would be collected by local administrator and be
deposited into separate accounts with the Savings Bank of Burundi
(para. 51.)
Section IV: Special Conditions of Effectiveness
- Appointment of the Project Coordinator (para. 47).



- 27 -
Annex IV
BURUNDI
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Procurement ArranyLements
(US$ million)
Total
Project Elements          ICB         LCB      Other a/    N.A.         Cost
Equipment, Pipes         3.250                                          3.250
(3.200)                                       (3.200)
Civil Works              4.030                              0.270       4.300
(3.224)                           (0.0)       (3.224)
Technical Assistance:
-  Equipment             0.300       0.015                              0.315
(0.290)    (0.014)                            (0.304)
-  Project Management                            1.154                  1.154
(1.056)                (1.056)
-  Operating Cost                                           0.137       0.137
(0.120)    (0.120)
Training                                        0.120                   0.120
(0.100)                (0.100)
Consulting Services                              1.590                  1.590
(1.496)                (1.496)
TOTAL          7.580      0.015       2.864      0.407      10.866
(6.714)    (0.014)    (2.652)    (0.120)    (9.500)
a/ Contract awards for technical assistance and consulting services.
Notes:  (a)  Cost figures shown in this table include contingencies and
are rounded.
(b) Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts that
would be financed by IDA.



at            SB UR U N'DI ID4
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJET DDDUCTON DEAU RRLE                          RWAN DA
NAU Win. Syim . 
ad '                    JPrO W hi M 
Lknro gr#udownrS 
f ~~~~~~~~~TANZAN IA
Z0 A I                                           1R E       MOR
''0A   I~~~~~~~~~~~~
,, .               
.~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k . 
" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~m :.-_ -'A 






