                                             Document of

                                         TheWorld Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY




                                     PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT




                                        REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI




                                   SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
                                          (CREDIT 1625-BU)




                                           JUNE 11, 1 9 9 3




      Infrastructure Operations D i v i s i o n
      S o u t h - C e n t r a land Indian Ocean Department
      Africa R e g i o n a l O f f i c e




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tbe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                      FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER

                     January 1 to December 31




                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            Currency Unit            I          Burundi Franc (Fbu)
            US$l.oo
                                     I          Fbu 120 (October 1984)
            US$1.00 (Actual annual
            average)                 I          Fbu 123 (85), Fbu 151 (86)
                                                Fbu 161 (87), Fbu 201 (88)
                                                Fbu 232 (89), Fbu 232 (90)




                       WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

                          Metric System




                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AfDB     -  African Development Bank (Banque africaine de d6veloppement)
AGCD     -  Belgian Cooperation Agency (Administration g6n6rale de la
            coop6ration)
            Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (Banque arabe
            pour le dBveloppement Bconomique en Afrique)
DGHER    -  General Directorate of Rural Water Resources and Energy
DHA      -  Department of Rural Water Resources and Sanitation
DHER     -  Department of Rural Water Resources and Electricity
Kfw      -  Germany Aid Fund (Kreditanstlat fur Wiederaufbau)
MDR      -  Ministry of Rural Development (Ministere du d6veloppement
            rural)
MDRA     -  Ministry of Rural and Artisanal Development (Ministere du
            d6veloppement rural et de l'artisanat)
REGIDESO -  National Water and Electricity Authority (Rbgie des Eaux)
UNICEF   -  United Nations Children's Fund

                                                                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                    THE WORLD BANK
                                                  Washington, D.C. 20433
                                                           U.S.A.



'fice of Director-General
 Operatiow Evaluation

                                                                                           June 11, 1993



                      MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TEIE PRESIDENT


      SUBJECT:        Project Completion Report on Burundi
                      Rural Water SUDD~YProject (Credit 1625-BUL



      -               Attached is the report entitled "Project Completiou Report on Burundi
         Rural Water Supply Project (Credit 1625-BU)" prepared by the Africa Regional
      Office with Part 11 contributed by the borrower.

                      The project represents a rare success of Bank involvement i n rural
      water supply.       It features a high level of community participation, an effective
      approach t o (0 b M) cost recovery and an innovative health education campaign.

                      The project achieved a l l its objective8 and, accordingly, it i e rated
      a s highly satisfactory, its sustainability as likely and its institutional
      development as substantial.

                      The PCR is of excellent quality.                  The project may be audited t o
      assess its replicability.




                                                                                         - -
                                                                                                ~~~




            This docunent has a restricted distribution and m y k used by recipients only in the porfornwce of
            their official duties. I t s contents m y not othenise k disclosed without Uorld Bank authorization.


                                                                                        FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY



                                       PROJECT COMPLETIOR REPORT

                                                   nsmmm
                                                                                    .
                                                PLY PRO-dit                   1625 BVL




Preface   . . . . . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ................ii         i
Evaluation Sumnary

PART Ir PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTI=
                                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1.  Project Identity                                                                                1
 .
2   Background         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        1
 .                                                         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3   Project Objective8 and Deecription                                                              2
    Project Objective8              .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..............  2
    Project Deecription                                                                             3
                                                     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4.  Project Deeign and Organization                                                                 3
 .                                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5   Project Implementation                                                                          3




 .                               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8   Bankperformance                                                                                 7




10 Project Relationship
  .                                    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                                                    8
                                    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11 Coneultant Servicee
  .
                                                                                                    8


12. Project                                           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                 Documentation and Data                                                             8
                                                                                . . . . . . . .
     11:     PROJECT REVIEW FROM -'S                        PEWECTIVE                               9




    This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
    of their official duties.Its contents may not otherwise be dirclaed without World Bank authorization
                                                                                                       .

Table of Contern (Cont.)




PART 111: STATISTICAL IN-TION

1. Related IDA credits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14

2. Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14

3. Credit Diebureemento   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15


4. Project Implementation    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16

5. Project Coete and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
                      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
   A    ProjectCoets                  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
   B .. Credit Allocation by Category


6. Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18

7. Statueof Legal Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20

8. Uee of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21

                           PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                    BURUNDI

                 SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (Credit 1625-BU)


                                    PREFACE


1.    Thie is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Water Supply
Project (or Rural Water Supply Project), for which Credit 1625-BU in the amount
of SDR 9.6 million war approved on September 10, 1985. The Credit wae closed on
December 31, 1991, or originally rcheduled. Itwae fully disbureed and the laet
diebureement wae on May 14, 1992.

2.    The PCR war jointly prepared by the Infraetructure Operatione Divieion of
the South-Central end Indien Oceen Department, Africa Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Sumnory, Partr I and 111) and the Borrower (Part 11).

3.    Preparation of thir PCB woe etarted during the Bank'e  final eupervieion
mireion of the project in April 1992, and ie based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report; the Credit Agreement; eupervieion reports; correepondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.


                           PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                    BURUNDI

                 1)

                               EVALUATION SUMMARY


Objectivee

1.    The project's mojor objectives were to:       (i) improve the quality and
quantity of water provided to the rural population; (ii) improve the living
conditions of the rural population by reducing walking distances to water supply
points; (iii) give the rural population greater responsibility in the area of
maintaining its water supply facilities; and (iv) help the Government make proper
institutional and financial arrangements for the rural water supply subsector
(para. 3.01).

Implementation

2.    The Department of Rural Water Resources and Electrification (DEER) of the
Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) was responsible for implementation of the
whole project, assisted by the Project Unit (PAEMR) . This Unit was strengthened
by three expatriates:     a project coordinator, a water systems maintenance
engineer and an accountant.    By decree No. 1001209 of December 22, 1988, MDR
became the Ministry of Rural and Artisanal Development (MDRA), and DEER became
the General Directorate of Rural Water Resources and Energy (DGHER), with a new
Department of Rural Water Resources and Sanitation (DHA).

3.    Thanks to the skills of its local and expatriate staff, the Project Unit
worked efficiently and obtained very good results.    Despite suspension of the
works for about six months in 1988 (see para. 5.02), all the worke were completed
by August 1990, five months ahead of schedule, and within the appraisal cost
estimate (para. 5.07).   The bidding documents were prepared correctly and on
schedule, and no particular problems arose during the bid appraisal process
(para. 5.03).  Supervision of the worke progressed satisfactorily, with the help
of the consulting firm that had carried out the feasibility studies and the final
engineering (para. 11.01).     Contractor performance wae also satisfactory.
Results were less marked on the institutional and financial sides.     The local
staff of the Project Unit were well trained and would have been able to implement
the follow-up Water Supply Sector Project, but they were assigned to other
departments before the end of the project (para. 6.05).

4.    The project was based on the decision taken by the Government in January
1985 to entrust the local authorities, with the responsibility for operation and
maintenance of the water supply systems, and to institute cost recwery measures.
The Project Unit started to implement this policy, but three months after the
September 3, 1987 coup dt6tat, the Government decided that the communes would pay
the water charges and not the beneficiaries.     It took a year to convince the

Gwernment to respect the original Agreement, which meant that implementation of
the institutional and financial arrangements was also a year behind (para. 6.06).

Results

5 .   Overall, the project was successful in meeting its primary objective of
improving access to potable water in rural areas covered by the project.       In
addition, it had a considerable impact on the subsector as a result of the
proposed institutional and financial arrangements, which helped the Gwernment
adopt a viable policy giving full responsibility for operation and maintenance
of water-supply systems to the beneficiary population, with oversight from the
communes (para. 6.06) and guidance from DGHER.         Despite the difficulties
encountered at the time the policy was adopted (para. 5) ,the project led to the
creation of 82 Communal Water Authorities tR6gies connnunales de l*Eau] in the
country's  114 communes.    Although these    authorities are not yet running
smoothly, their creation represents an encouraging first step, and the ongoing
Water Supply Sector Project, approved on July 16, 1991, should further improve
the situation (para. 6.07).  The project also financed the feasibility and final
design studies for preparation of the ongoing Water Supply Sector Project (Credit
2288-BU) .

Sustainability

6 .   The project helped DGHER strengthen its management and its organization.
It also paved the way for the Water Supply Sector Project (Credit 2288-BU), which
covers almost the whole country and is financed jointly by IDA, Belgium (AGCD),
Germany (KfW),  UNICEF and NGOs.    This project will enable the Government to
implement the new institutional and financial arrangements nationwide (para.
7.01).

Findings and lessons learned

7.    The  technical   aspects   of   the  project   were  performed   by   DGHER
satisfactorily and on schedule with the help of foreign consultants. Hawever,
as happens in many developing countries and with many projects, the financial and
institutional arrangements were difficult to implement owing to Gwernment
reluctance to impose a water charge on the beneficiaries and to give the local
authorities the desired managerial and financial autonomy.

Overall project assessment

8.    The project clearly achieved its social, health and institutional goals.
Preparation of the follaw-up Water Supply Sector Project, n w in progress, has
also been satisfactory, and this latter project should help consolidate the
present project's  achievements w e r the long term, in particular by ensuring
nationwide adoption of the system allocating responsibility for rural water
scheme management to the Communal Water Authorities. Overall, the project may
be considered satisfactory.

                 SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CREDIT 1625-BU)

                           PROJECT COMPLETION =PORT

                PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE


1.    Project Identity

            Name                     : Second Water Supply Project
            Credit Number            : 1625-BU
            RVP Unit                 : Africa Region
            Country                  : Burundi
            Sector                   : Water Supply and Sanitation


2.    Background

2.01  Water supply in rural areas used to be the responsibility of the
Department of Rural Water Resources and Electricity (DHER),established  by Decree
No. 100/18 of February 2, 1979 within the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR).
DHER was in charge of planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance
of all rural water supply schemes. However, due to the lack of funds, skilled
personnel, and proper institutional and financial arrangements, most of the rural
water supply systems in existence at the time the project was initiated were not
being maintained. DHEKwas also responsible for the production and distribution
of electricity in rural areas throughout the country.

2.02  The Second Water Supply Project was the second project financed by IDA in
Burundi for the water and sanitation sector.   IDA had been involved in an early
water supply project (Credit No. 85-BU for USS1.1 million, signed on March 31,
1966). designed to improve and expand Bujumbura's water supply system.       This
project was completed in 1972. At the request of the Covernment, the Bank sent
a mission to Burundi in b y 1979 to identify a second project in the water supply
and sanitation sector.      The mission identified a project comprising two
components:  sanitation works in Bujumbura, comprising in particular works not
financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa (BADEA), and rehabilitation of rural water supply systems
throughout the country. The mission believed it would be possible to finance the
sanitation works in Bujumbura as long as organizational and financial studiee
were carried out, since thoee already in existence were inadequate and
incomplete.  Concerning the rural water supply component, feasibility studies
would need to be carried out.

2.03  To finance thoee studiee, on March 13, 1981 the Government submitted a
request for a PPF advance of US$470,000, which was approved on May 19, 1981.
Feasibility studies for the rural water supply component were awarded to a French
consulting firm. However, the Ministry of Finance had not approved the award to
the firm concerned, and asked that the contract be awarded to the firm submitting
the lowest price.  Following lengthy discussions, the Association accepted this
position on April 1, 1982.

2.04     I n April 1981, the Bank was asked t o include a water supply component for
Bujumbura i n the project.    The estimated cost of USS15 million would be financed
50%by IDA and 50%by KfW.       On April 16, 1982, IDA responded that priority should
be given t o the rural sector, i n view of the fact that a US$lS million credit
had recently been approved for the First Urban Development Project.          This meant
that only one third of the proposed US$10 million credit would be allocated t o
the urban sector, and thus neither the Bujumbura water supply nor the Bujumbura
sanitation components could be included i n the project.        It was then proposed to
include an improved p i t l a t r i n e component for the low income areas of the city.
The sanitation department of REGIDESO, was so reluctant t o implement a cost
recovery system for the p i t latrine component, and t o have the works done by
private contractors,      that the appraisal mission decided t o abandon t h i s
component.

2.05     Feasibility studies were carried out for 47 rural water systems.       During
the course of the studies, the number of water supply systems t o be rehabilitated
was reduced from 47 t o 41:       three systems were withdrawn because financing was
found from another source, and three systems were combined with other systems.
I n addition, eight systems located i n rural areas close t o towns served by
REGIDESO posed problems of overlapping with systems b u i l t o r planned by REGIDESO
with KfW financing.       No agreement was reached on institutional and financial
aspects, and i n July 1984, the preappraisal mission reconrmended withdrawing these
8 systems from the project, leaving a t o t a l of 33.

2.06     Currently, the respective responsibilities of REGIDESO and DIIER were not
clearly defined, particularly i n the rural areas surrounding the towns served by
REGIDESO. This was a serious problem, because standpipe users i n urban areas did
not pay for water, since REGIDESO billed the communes for t h i s service.         This
question was addressed within the context of an institutional and t a r i f f study,
financed by AfDB, which recoomended limiting REGIDESO'e activities t o urban
areas.     The Government eventually agreed with t h i s recommendation, which is t o
be implemented under the ongoing Water Supply Sector Project (credit 2288-BU).

2.07     During project preparation, agreement was reached with UNICEF t o include
i n the project the development and protection of 2,500 springs.          UNICEF would
have been executing agency for t h i s component and would have contributed t o its
financing.     The Government agreed i n principle t o include t h i s component i n the
proposed project, but wished t o find a grant t o finance it. Since t h i s condition
had not been met by preappraieal, MDR requested, on July 10, 1984, that t h i s
component be withdrawn from the project.



3.01     Proiect obiectives:    The project's major objectives were to:
(i)improve the quality and quantity of water provided to the rural population;
( i i ) improve the living conditions of the rural population, i n particular by
reducing walking distances t o water supply points; ( i i i ) increase the rural
population's sense of responsibility for maintaining its water supply facilities!
and (iv) help the GovernmentmPke proper institutional and financial arrangements
for the rural water supply subsector.

3.02  Project description:    The project consisted of the rehabilitation and
extension of 33 existing rural water supply systems.          It also included:
(i) reinforcement of DHER, through the provision of technical assistance and
equipment; (ii) a training program, offered both abroad and locally, for DEER and
communal personnel, and a sensitization program for the local population;
(iii) engineering services for construction supervision; (iv) external audits of
DHER; and (v) feasibility studies of about 40 other rural water supply systems.

4.    Project design and organization

4.01  The project concept was developed, with inputs from Bank staff, by the
participating institutions and ministries over a five-year period (05179 to
07/84).  The length of this preparation period was due to the time needed to
recruit a consulting firm for the design work (three years), to the numerous
changes in project scope requested by the Government (paras. 2.04 to 2.07), and
to the reluctance of the Government to give full responsibility for operation and
maintenance to the beneficiary population and to impose water charges on
standpipe users. The formal decisionwas not taken until January 28, 1985, three
months after project appraisal. Finally, the project was well prepared in terms
of both timing and scope.

4.02  Since its creation in 1979, DHER had been executing all the rural water
supply schemes of the rural communes on force account, also being responsible for
their operation and maintenance, without any beneficiary involvement or any kind
of cost recovery.  During project preparation, it was agreed that the role of
DHER would be limited to planning, financing, works supervision, and oversight
of operation and maintenance. DHER, reinforced by a Project Unit, would thus be
responsible for the monitoring of project implementation, carried out by
contractors that were themselves overseen by consulting firms. The Project Unit
comprised a technical assistance team of three persons:   a project coordinator,
a maintenance engineer, and an accountant, supported by local staff. By decree
No. 1001209 of December 22, 1988, MDR became the Ministry of Rural and Artisanal
Development (HDRA),  and DHER became the General Directorate of Rural Water
Resources and Energy (DGHER), including a Department of Rural Water and
Sanitation (DHA).

5.    Project Implementation

5.01  Credit effectiveness and project start-UD:      The credit was approved on
September 10, 1985 and signed on October 11, 1985.     Effectiveness, originally
scheduled for January 15, 1986, was postponed to March 31, 1986.        The only
condition of effectiveness was the recruitment of the project coordinator. The
credit was declared effective on February 6, 1986.

5.02  Implementation schedule: Project implementation was originally scheduled
to be completed by December 31, 1990. In August 1988, two of the water systems
(Ntega and Ruhehe) were heavily affected by civil unrest in the north of the
country, and construction was stopped for five months.   Also in 1988, the worke
were delayed because the Government was reluctant to charge the population for
water use, and a supervision mission suggested that the project (para.6.06) be
halted.  Nevertheless, a11 the works were completed by August 1990.     The only
remaining activities were the final design studies for the follow-up project in

process of preparation, these studies not having been initially included in the
project, and two additional water schemes.

5.03  Procurement:   The procurement process started out slowly but proceeded
satisfactorily.   The works were divided into three packages of about 10 water
systems each, to be awarded over three years.    Since the final engineering had
been completed for packages I and 11, it was decided to issue a blanket bid call
for the two of them. The process started in June 1986, and bids were submitted
on September 17, 1986. The bid appraisal report proposed awarding packages 1 and
2 to the same contractor.    The bid prices were about 10% below the appraisal
estimates.  IDA approved the award on January 12, 1987, and the contract was
signed on March 10, 1987.

5.04  Package 111 was divided into two parts:           one to be awarded by
international competitive bidding (10 water supply systems) and one by local
competitive bidding (3 systems).  On April 21, 1987, MDR proposed extending the
contract for packages I and I1 to include package 111, in order to save time and
money, based on the initial prices, which were very competitive. The Association
agreed, except for the three systems to be awarded locally.

5.05  During the appraisal mission, MDR requested the Belgian aid agency (AGCD)
to finance the salary of the project coordinator in the Project Unit.   This was
approved, and the coordinator was appointed on December 24, 1985 (this
appointment being a condition of effectiveness).    His contract expired in June
1986, and MDR informed the Belgians that it would not be able to extend his
assignment. The Belgian cooperation service refused to finance another expert,
with the result that a call for proposals was issued to recruit another
coordinator.     The Association accepted the new expert proposed by MDR on
December 23, 1986.

5.06  The contract for the feasibility studies of 40 other rural water supply
systems was awarded to a French consulting firm, approved by the Association on
March 9, 1987.    The studies were completed in December 1988.        Since the
depreciation of the US dollar against the SDR had led to an increase of over
USS3.0 million in the amount of the Credit, IDA agreed to finance the final
design studies for the follow-up project under Credit 1625-BU.      MDR proposed
offering the contract directly to the same consulting firm, because the
feasibility studies had been carried out on time and satisfactorily. IDA had no
objection to this proposal, but the Central Awards Committee of the Ministry of
Finance did not approve. An international invitation to consultants was issued,
and the resultant proposals were submitted on November 8, 1989. The contract was
awarded to the Belgian consulting firm already responsible for supervision of the
construction works.

5.07  proiect costs:    A comparison between the appraisal estimates and the
actual costs of the project is given in Part 111, section 5. The appraisal cost
estimate was USS10.87 million     (about SDR 11.0 million).      During project
implementation, the US dollarlSDR exchange rate went from USS0.99 to USS1.37 to
SDR 1, increasing the amount of the Credit from USS9.5 million (originally SDR
9.6 million) to USS12.5 million.  This made it possible to finance not only the
final design studies of the follow-up project (para. 5.06), but also additional
training and equipment for DEER, as well as two additional water supply systems.

5.08  Disbursements:  In Part 111, Table 3, actual annual disbursements of the
Credit are compared with the appraisal estimates and the profile of water and
eanitation project disbursements in Africa. Disbursements were spread over 6.5
years, following pretty closely the profile of water supply projects in Africa.
A six-year disbursement period had been estimated at appraisal, but as the result
of the US dollarlSDR depreciation USS12.5 million was disbursed, against the
appraisal estimate of USS9.5 million. The original closing date of December 31,
1991 was respected, and disbursements took place through May 14, 1992.        The
Credit was fully disbursed.

5.09  Credit allocation:   The original allocations by category and the actual
disbursements under Credit 1625-BU are shown in table 5.B. Part 111. There was
no formal reallocation, but the denomination of Category 111 was changed by a
letter dated July 9, 1987 requiring the term "Project Implementation Unit" to be
inserted before the term "Consultant Services," to cover the disbursement of the
funds for the Project Unit.   Category I (civil works) shcrved a cost overrun of
SDR 820,000, while category I1 (vehicles, equipment and supply of pipes) was
underrun by SDR 767,000, because the categories as defined in the Credit
Agreement did not correspond to the contracts signed, in particular with respect
to the supply of pipes, which was included in the main civil works contract.
Since there was no overrun for the actual works component, most of the
unallocated category was ueed for consultant services and training. In addition
to the feasibility studies of the 40 new rural water supply systems originally
planned, the Credit financed the final design studies of these 40 new systems and
also the preparation of the Water Supply Sector Project now under implementation.

6.    Project results

6.01  Pro.iect obiectives:  Overall, the project was successful in meeting its
principal objectives of improving access to potable water in the 33 areas covered
by the project.  The project also assisted in strengthening the management and
organization of DHER and its capacity to implement subsequent projects, even
though several key local staff members left the department before the end of the
project.
6.02  The project has contributed to the overall development of the rural water
supply subsector in Burundi.    In particular, the institutional and financial
arrangements implemented under the project for the rural water supply subsector
have had a substantial impact, helping the Government adopt a policy allocating
full responsibility for operation and maintenance of the water supply schemes to
the beneficiary population, with oversight from the caPlmunes. The project paved
the way for preparation of the Water Supply Sector Project (credit 2288-BU,
signed on August 7, 1991) which covers the whole country and involves two other
cofinanciers (Belgium and Germany), as well as UNICEF and NGOs.

6.03  In addition, the project helped the Government to improve organizational
structures, particularly that of DHER, and to better identify the respective
responsibilities of DEER and REGIDESO.

6.04  Phvsical results: The physical targets of the project were substantially
achieved.   The 33 rural water supply schemes included in the project were
rehabilitated and expanded ae planned. In addition, since there were some funds

available at the end of the project, owing to the appreciation of the SDR against
the US dollar, two additional water systems were financed.

6.05  Institutional ~erformance:      On the institutional side, the project
objectives were twofold: (1) strengthen DGHER, the implementing agency, and (ii)
put in place new institutional arrangements for the operation and maintenance of
rural water supply systems.   The first objective was satisfactorily achieved,
thanks to a comprehensive training program and to the continuing education
provided by the technical assistance team. This highly-qualified and efficient
team remained on hand throughout the implementation period.         Hawever, the
project's impact on DGHER was lees marked than expected because the local
supervisory staff of the project unit were transferred to other positions:   the
local project coordinator was promoted to the post of director general of the
Tobacco Agency [ROgie des Tabacs], the accountant was promoted to the post of
chief of the new Planning and Studies Bureau [Bureau de la planification et des
~tudes],reporting directly to the Minister, and the maintenance engineer moved
to REGIDESO.

6.06  The process of introduction of the new institutional arrangements for the
operation and maintenance of rural water supply systems was not without
difficulties.   As early as the project preparation stage, the Government had
expressed reluctance about giving full responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of rural water schemes to the beneficiary population, and introducing
cost recovery measures. Official Government approval was not forthcoming until
January 28, 1985, three months after project appraisal (this being a condition
of negotiations).   The Project Unit launched a sensitization program for the
communal authorities and the local population concerned by the project, but this
was halted by the Government in December 1987, three months after the September
3, 1987 coup d'btat.  The Government officially informed the Association in June
1988 of its decision to have the communes, and not the beneficiaries, pay the
water charges.   Since this decision did not conform to the provisions of the
Credit Agreement, and indeed ran counter to the project's principal objectives,
the Association decided in October 1988 to suspend the works.    The decision to
adhere to the original agreement was ultimately taken by the Minister of Rural
Development in Washington in January 1989.   The new institutional and financial
arrangements were initially implemented in three pilot communes, and were then
extended to all of the project water systems. These various problems held the
project up by more than a year.

6.07  Despite the problems involved in the adoption of these measures they led
to the creation, within the project framework, of 82 Communal Water Authorities
(in a total of 114 communes).    Not all these Authorities are yet working to
expectations:  most of the 32 set up by the project are operating relatively
well, 25 are acceptable, and 25 are in need of a supervisory structure and
training facilities.  Cost recovery arrangements have been established in most
of these communes, not only for standpipe users, but also for the users of
developed springs. The rate of recovery varies from 78% to less than 20% in the
communes where Water Authorities were established only recently.    Nonetheless,
this is a good start, and the Water Supply Sector Project should ensure that the
situation continues to improve and that the system is extended to all the
communes.

6.08   Financial verformance:     The project accounts were regularly audited by an
external auditor, and the reports were received (with some delays) by the Bank.
There was some discussion about the accounts being presented i n Burundi francs,
US dollars and SDRs. However, the auditor never had any problem with this.        On
the other hand, the accounts of DHER, and subsequently of DGHER, were criticized
by the auditor every year, ond he refused t o approve those for 1989.     In October
1990, the Water Supply Sector Project appraisal mission recommended that an
expert be hired for 4-6 months t o update and complete the 1989 accounts, have
them audited, and submit them t o IDA before the Water Supply Sectoral Project was
presented t o the Board.     This was done, the situation improved appreciably, and
the 1989 and 1990 accounts were approved.

6.09   With respect t o payment of the water charges,           the Communal Water
Authorities were t o b i l l customers with house connections and standpipe users as
soon as the syetems were i n operation, so as t o cover operational and maintenance
costs. Despite certain delays, mainly resulting fromthe Government's hesitancy
(para.6.06), this new system i s n w being implemented i n the 82 Communal Water
Authorities that have been oet up. The water charges are FBu 36/m3 for customers
with a house connection, FBu 2001yearlhousehold for users of gravity-operated
standpipes, FBu 500/year/household for users of pump-operated standpipes, and
FBu 50 or FBu 1001year/household for users of developed springs.        The recwery
rate varies from 78% t o 20% i n communes where the cost recovery system was
established only recently.       Details are given i n Part 111, section 6.

7.     Project sustainability

7.01   The project has had a significant positive impact i n that it has caused
new institutional and financial arrangements t o be put i n place i n the rural
water supply subsector, giving f u l l responsibility t o the beneficiary population
for operation and maintenance of rural water schemes, with the oversight from the
communes, and assuring cost recovery and hence the sustainability of the
installed facilities.      DGHER and the Government need t o continue their efforts
i n the areas of institutional development and coat recwerp.       The ongoing Water
Supply Sector Project is expected t o provide immediate assistance on this aspect,
but efforts w i l l need t o continue.

8.     Bank performance

8.01   Supervision by IDA was relatively continuous, with only one change i n task
manager, which occurred twards the end of the project.       During implementation,
a total of 12 successive supervision missions visited Burundi, a t the rate of 2
a year.    Some 117.1 staff-weeks were spent on this project over the entire
project cycle, which i s lw. The details of staff input and miseions are given
i n Part 111, section 8.

8.02   IDA'S performance was satisfactory.         The project was well prepared,
appraised and supervised. IDA'S efforts i n the institutional and financial areas
were effective, particularly i n 1988, when it convinced the new Government t o
respect the terms of the Credit Agreement and not to override the decisions taken
i n January 1985 on institutional and cost recovery policies.

9.        Borrawer performmce

9.01       On the technical side, thanks t o the help it received from the Project
Unit, DCHER turned i n an excellent performance:        the bidding process progressed
on schedule, with the bid appraisal reports prepared on time and the contracts
concluded without any problem and within the appraisal cost estimates. On the
financial side, the results were not so good:           there was no problem with the
project accounts kept by the Project Unit, which was not the case with the DCHER
accounts (para. 6.08).        On the institutional side, implementation of the new
policy f o r the r u r a l water supply subsector was delayed by one year, due mainly
t o hesitancy on the part of the Government.

9.02      Quarterly reports were submitted by DCHER t o IDA i n a timely manner up t o
the end of 1989. There have been no progrees reports since then.        DCHER retained
an independent auditor t o prepare both its own and the project accounts. Audited
accounts were prepared regularly up t o 1991.          There were same delays a t the
beginning, but generally the audit reports were received within one year a f t e r
the end of the f i s c a l year concerned, instead of the six months stipulated i n the
Credit Agreement (Section 4.0l.b.ii).

9.03      Despite requests from the missions,         DCHER has not yet prepared a
completion report.       Part 11of the Project Completion Report should be submitted
t o the Bank within two months.

10.       Project relationehip

10.01 IDA'S      relationship with DGHER on the project has been very good.
Relations with the Government were d i f f i c u l t as a result of problems connected
with implementation of the institutional and cost recovery measures, and IDA had
t o threaten t o suspend disbursements i n order t o get the Government t o agree t o
t h e i r implementation. Borrower-contractor relationships were alsovery good, but
relations between the Borrower and the consultante were strained.

11.       Consultant .emice.

11.01 The successful completion of the works, on schedule and within the limits
of the appraisal estimate, would not have been possible without the high-quality
consultant inputs received during project preparation and implementation.

12.       Project documontation md data

12.01 The original documentation f o r the project was adequate and appropriate.
The appraisal report provided a useful fremework f o r both IDA and DCHER i n t h e i r
review of project implementation.

                         If: PRWBCT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPBCTIW



                Part I of t h e PCR covets the project review from t h e Bank's
perspective and represents, i n t h e Borrower's opinion, an excellent overview of
the progress of t h e Second Water Supply Project                   (Credit 1625-BU).   Its
conclusions regarding t h e overall success of t h e project cannot be questioned.

                The Borrower has consequently decided t o use t h i e second part of the
report eimply t o offer its viewpoints on certain components t h a t it found
particularly gratifying and on certain aspects t h a t might have been dealt with
differently a t t h e the of appraisal.

                The Borrower wishes t o emphaeize t h a t thanke t o t h e excellent
relations of mutual t r u s t t h a t have always existed between the Bank on t h e one
hand and t h e s t a f f of the General Directorate of Rural Water Resources and Energy
(DGHER) and of t h e Project Unit on t h e other, it was possible, particularly
towards t h e end of project implementation, t o bring a more focused approach t o
t h e actions contained i n the project objectives, and t o establish continuity
between t h i e project and the Water Supply Sector Project (Credit 2888-BU).

Institutional organisation

                Although the Credit Agreement (1625-BU) s t a t e s t h a t t h e Borrower
entruete t h e coamunee with "reeponeibility f o r t h e operation and maintenance of
water supply systems,"             e f f o r t s by the Communal Water Authorities [R(lgien
C o ~ n a l e nde 1'Bau] led t o t h e empowerment and Lnvolvement of t h e users of those
systems  .
                I n t h e   f i r s t   stage of     t h e project, responsibility for t h e
infrastructure lay primarily with t h e coamunal administration (the coramunal
accountant keeping t h e accounts for the embryo water service) and the water
supply attendants were more o r lese selected.

                Starting i n 1990, with application of the "Note of Instructions t o
Governors o f t h e Provinces and Communal Administrators on the Organization of t h e
Water Supply [?System] i n Rural Areas,' t h i s organization evolved considerably,
with the o f f i c i a l creation of t h e Coamunal Water Authorities, based on the "r6gie
an8ociativeWprinciple.

                This organization starts a t graasroote level, with a democratically
elected coarmittee for each water point, be it a developed opring, a standpipe, o r
a protected w e l l .       These Water Point Coamitteee,          composed of four o r five

benmficiariee per water point, of whom at l e a e t one must be a woman, together with
reprmeentativee of houeeholde with private connectione and of t h e comune'e
largest coneumere, conetitute t h e General Aeeembly of Ueers, which i n t u r n e l e c t s
t h e Communal Uemre Coounittee, thm adminietrative and management organ of thm
Communal Water Authority.         One of t h e function. of t h e General Assembly of Ueers
is t o approve the annual budget. of the Water Authority, and hence t o determine
t h e     level of     chargee  (monmtary contributions)         t o be collected        from t h e
beneficiariee each year.

                  The Communal Ueere Committee appoint.           from among its members a
chairman, vice-chairman, treaeurer and deputy treasurer, who are responsible f o r
t h e day-to-day operation of t h e Water Authority.

                  Thanke t o aeeietance from t h e Bank and t h e project etaf f , and t o t h e
resourcee made available by t h e credit, t h i e organization, endowed with strong
principle. and guidelinee, wae rapidly put i n place, even exceeding t h e project's
32-comune limit.

                  I n tenw of developpent i n general, t h i e organization may be regarded
as a eucceee, eince the operation, maintenance and management of the f a c i l i t i e s
made available t o them by t h e camunity (Government) w e r e a l l taken over by t h e
beneficiariee.

Sxtureion-er~eitisationcampigno targmting thm bmnmficiary population

                  The Project Appraieal Report referred t o a "program of sanitary
education [deeigned t o ] eeneitize t h e population t o t h e uee of potable water."
Ae i n t h e came of organization of t h e Water Authorities, t h e project here again
exceeded i t e mandate.

                  During implementation (June 1990) t h e expert i n charge of water
eyetem maintenance l e f t t h e project f o r e t r i c t l y personal reasons.     The German
consulting firm replacod himwith another expert whose experience had been mainly
i n t h e area of r u r a l eociology.

                  e hie replacement expert arrived at t h e Project Unit just at t h e time
when t h e local technical aeeietante aeeigned t o t h e Water Authorities w e r e
largely able t o take reeponeibility f o r t h e i r aeeignmente.       With e f f e c t from t h e
l a e t quarter of 1990, t h e new expert'e work consisted almost exclusively of
s e t t i n g up and developing extension-eenmitization campaigns on t h e following
topicsr

               (i)       Water i e l i f e ; drinking water i e health

              (ii)       Continued acceee t o drinking water mean8 getting organized and
                         paying our water chargee.

                  Two exteneion teame were met up t o carry out these campaigns, each
one coneieting of a male and female exteneion worker and having its own all-
t e r r a i n vehicle.   Tmaching aide were a100 aeeembledr       picture boxes (health, and
eector organization), flannelgraphe (organizationof Water Authorities), posters,
booklete (drinking water        80  t h e eource of health and progress).     After a three-

month training couree, theee two teame went out into the hillaides where they
held exteneion-eensitieation meetings around the water points, encouraging the
people to elect Water Point Committee6 and helping to eet up General Aeeembliea
of Ueere.

            Here again, as with the eatabliehment of the Water Authorities, this
exteneion-eeneitization drive was not limited to the project'e target communee,
extending into all the other areae where the new Water Authoritiee wanted help
in getting the local inhabitante to organize.

            The ecale of the effort actually expended in carrying out theee
eeneitization programs wae much larger than the appraieal miaeion had foreeeen.
In addition to the direct impact of the programs on the comunitiee involved,
they aleo made it poeeible to develop teaching teame and tools that were
eubeequently taken over by the new project.     Both the extension methode and
teaching aide ueed were offered to other agente, who have already started to make
uee of them.

            Looking at the way the rural communitiee reacted to thie exteneion
effort, the Borrower feele that the method by which thie component wae developed
wae eucceeeful and ehould eerve as an inepiration to other agents, particularly
in the areas of health and hygiene.

Consultant services

            The proceduree for hiring coneultanta, obeerved right from the time
of credit effectiveneea, met with the Borrower'e    full approval.   Following a
eucceeeful proceee of competition, coneultante and experte were hired who were
both experienced and highly competent.

            The feaeibility studies for providing water eupply facilitiee in the
provincee of Karuzi, Kayanza, Muyinga and Ngozi, the finaldeeign etudiee for 43
echemee to be implemented in thoee eame provincee, and the feaeibility etudiee
for water eupply in the provinces of Gitega and Muramvya (financed through a PPP
under the new project, but awarded, implemented and euperviaed within the preeent
project framework) made it poeeible to develop an entire methodology for the
eetabliehment of provincial programs for maximum coverage of water requiremente
and to etandardize the detailed design format for the new echemee. At the same
time, they provided elemente that were ueed to improve the bidding documente and
contract documente (epecificatione, echedulee of pricee, bille of quantities).

            The data generated by theee eucceeefully completed activitiee
provided DGHER with reference information for the operatione launched within the
framework of the new project and of German-Burundian financial cooperation, and
of the ongoing operatione with the European Community.

Construction

            Thank6 to the grouping of certain iteme aeeociated with conetruction
of the water supply achemes (euppliea and pipe laying and civil works) and a
certain broadening of the financial baee (eee Part I, eection 5 . 0 7 ) , it wae

poeeible to introduce a large number of adaptations into the systems, designed
to improve the eervice and ensure greater facility of maintenance and operation.

            The water dietribution echemee presented certain problems.      These
parts of the systems were often in very bad condition and in need of replacement;
however, the coneultante retained them on the recommendation of the firet
coordinator, whose ealary was funded by Belgian Aid, and they did not study them
in any great detail.    This led to delays in work completion timee and coat
overruns.

            Several echemee covered by the project included pumping eyeteme, one
of which, an entirely new one, ale0 came with a complete treatment facility. The
costs of maintenance and operation of thie type of scheme will be very high for
the beneficiarieeto bear, unleee other facilities with lower operating coete are
incorporated into the Water Authoritiee* aeeete, bringing the charges down to
acceptable levels.

            Althoughtheee networks are all operational, the quality of operation
of the above more complex pumping system is not very good, dietribution being
reetricted to ehort hourly intervale each day.

            It would perhaps have been preferable right at the beginning to pace
the conetruction of these eyeteme until the communes operating a large number of
distribution facilitiee were able to paee on their high operating costs to a
larger number of beneficiaries.

Training of DQHER poreonnml

            Training wae provided throughout the project, both on the job, for
the local staff of the Project Unit, and through internships abroad, and thie
training also benefitted DGHER pereonnel.   However, the Borrower regrete:
      -
            that the water eupply unite were too widely diepereed for the DGHER
            engineere and technicians to be able to receive better supervision
            or training;
      -
            that the technical aeeietante, few in number and taken up with day-
            to-day management of the project, were unable to devote more time to
            this training.

            On the other hand, the traneparency of project activitiee where DGHER
wae concerned, and the varioue taeke carried out by the project for DGHER,
enabled the latter to considerably improve ite working relationehipa with the
other agente and donors.

            Like the Bank, the Borrower regrete the various personnel transfers
that occurred during project implementation when certain officials were rewarded
for their reliability and      dynamiem   through promotion to positions of
reeponeibility.

Trursition from thm Smcond Watmr Supply Projmct to thm Smctor Projmct

                Thanke t o mound programing on t h e Bank'e part, t o t h e dynamiem of
DGHER and project etaff i n monitoring t h e project activitiee, and t o euetained
management of t h e project funds a t t h e time of cloeure, it wae poeeible t o make
a emooth traneition from t h i e project (completed on December 31, 1991) t o t h e
Sector Project, which started on January 2, 1992.

                Thie continuity, making it poeeible t o pureue t h e operatione under
way i n t h e r u r a l water sector without t h e need f o r a "traneition periodw ae such,
obviated a l l d i f f i c u l t i e e i n operation of t h e project etructuree and i n t h e use
of i t e personnel and f a c i l i t i e s .     The Borrower wae very appreciative of t h i e
continuity, which undoubtedly reeulted i n eavinge of both money and time i n
getting t h e Sector Project a c t i v i t i e e under way.

                Like t h e Bank, t h e Borrower f inde t h a t t h e project a s a whole wae
eucceeeful.       From t h e Borrower'e perepective, t h i e eucceee i e i n particular due
to:    (i)implementation of a etrong and eoundly baaed eectoral organization, with
t h e beneficiaries of t h e infraetructuree participating i n t h e i r maintenance and
operation; (ii)completion o f t h e eeneitization campaigne designed t o educate t h e
population i n mattere of hygiene, and aleo t o get them t o organize, enabling them
t o aeeume reeponeibility f o r t h e infraetructuree set up by t h e local authority.

                Theee two points, which w e r e particularly w e l l addreeeed by t h e
project and i n which it wae eubetantially involved, a r e key vectors of t h e
development of Burundi'e r u r a l environment i n general, and ehould be able t o
inspire varioue other agente i n t h a t area.

                                                          14

                                        .PROJECT COMPLETIOW REPORT

                                                      BURUNDI

                          SECOND WATER SUPPLY CREDIT (CREDIT 1625-BUL

                                 PART 111:        STATISTICAL INFORMATION



1.       Related IDA credits


 Credit                            Purpose                                Approval        Status

 Credit 85-BU:          First      To help the Government                 03/31/66        Completed in 1972
 Water Supply Project              finance improvement and
                                   expansion of water
...........................................................................................
                                   supply in Bujumbura

 Credit 2288-BU:                   To help the Government                 07/16/91 Under
 Water Supply Sector               finance rural water                                    implementation
 Project                           systems throughout the
                                   country



2.       Project timetable


.............................................................................................
                                         Planned date               Revised date             Actual date

 Identification                                                                                 05/79

 Preparation                                                                                 09180-12183



 Appraisal                                    10184                                             10184

 Negotiations                               04/15/85                                           06/17/85

 Board apprwal                              06/18/85                                           09110185

 Credit signature                                                                              lOllll85

 Credit effectivenese                       01/13/86                   03120186                02/06/86

 Credit closing                             12/31/91                                           12/31/91

 Prolect cam~letion                            12/90                                            12/91

3.       Credit Diebure.mente

                   Cumulative Emtimated and Actual Diebure.m.nte
                               (in million. of dollar.)


 WB Fiscal Year          SAR Estirmrtes    Actual        XDisbursed  Africa Profile
 and Quarter
-   - -      -


            1986

 Sept. 30, 1985
 Dec. 31, 1985
 March 31, 1986
 June 30, 1986

            1987

 Sept. 30, 1986
 Dec. 31, 1986
 March 31, 1987
 June 30, 1987

            1988

 Sept. 30, 1987
 Dec. 31, 1987
 March 31, 1988
 J ~ n e30, 1988

            1989

 Sept. 30, 1988
 Dec. 31, 1988
 March 31, 1989
 June 30, 1989

            1990

 Sept. 30, 1989
 Dec. 31, 1989
 March 31, 1990
 June 30, 1990

            1991

 Sept. 30, 1990
 Dec. 31, 1990
 March 31, 1991
 J ~ n e30, 1991

            1992

 Sept. 30, 1991
 Dec. 31, 1991
 March 31, 1992
 June 30, 1992

4. Projact Implmmmntation

5.   Projact Coata and Thanciag


                              A. Projact Coata ( d l l i o ~f~Wu)
                                                            o



                                             SAR Estimtea                   Actrvl

                                       Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Totrl

  1. &habilitation and extension of 33 Mucductn


     piw                               13.876  263.645    277.521        0  270.527  270.527
     Installation nd civil works      213.314   153.425   366.739 422.278   282.903  705-181


     Total 1                          227.190  417.070    644.260 422.270   561.430  983.70~




     Equfplmt                           1.990    28.010   30.000   44.913   20.912    65.1125
     Technical assistance             41.200     69.200   110.400   5.6%    333.731  339.427
     Operational cost                  9.080     3.960    23.040   118.W    38.283   157.087


     Total 2                          52.270    101.170   153.440  169.413  392.926  562.339




                                    ---                         -     - - - -- -  -

     Total 4                          48.779    114.782   163.561  93.971   190.236  284.207


     Physical c o n t i n g d w       27.262     50.046   77.310         0        0         0


     Price contlntmwiea               153.179   265.128   418.307        0        0         0


     General Totrl

                         b.  C d i t Allocation by Category
                                      (in 8DR)


    cat.aorv                                              Eetimate       Actual

    1.    Civil work., including pip. laying              2,500,000   3,386,350

    2.   Vohiclom, oquiplwnt, piper                       3,000,000   2,233,178

    3.    Consultant aorvicoa, training                   1,500,000   3,552,989

    4.   Refunding of PPF No. P 158                         470,000     427,483

    5.   Unallocatod                                      2,130,000           0




      In thm 32 coamunom covord by tho projoct, tho umerm of 1,058 standpipes

(of which 693 arm now and 365 wmrm      alrmady i n mxistence) represent 30,333

houaoholdm.  Thm mnual chargmm paid by a hoummhold a r m :




            FBu 100 i n 1 comrmuno (Ryabikoro)

            FBu 200 i n 28 cooparunma

            FBu 400 i n 1 cornnuno (Gamhoho Ruyanqo)

            FBu 500 i n 2 cornnunma (Bugabira and Songa), which have pumping

                        mtationm




      In thoam comrmnoa, tho uaora of tho 3,573 dovo1op.d apringm represent

85,906 houmoholdm, which oach pay an annual chargo of:

                                                    19

                  FBu 200 i n 2 conrnunee        (Ngori and Bweru)

                  FBu 100 i n 6 commune8         (Buhinyuza, Isale, Kabezi, Kayokwe, Kigamba

                                                 and Kiganda)

                  FBu  50 i n 15 conrnunee

                  FEU   0 i n   9 cormmunee




       The recovery r a t e of theoe chargee i n 1991 varied between 78% and lees than

20%.    It ehould be noted that a l l communal water officee were created in 1991,

eo t h a t t h i e wae the f i r e t year t h a t t h e feee etarted t o be collected.

                                                         20

7 .      Statum of legal covenant8



Section                 Covenant                                      Compliance


 2.02(b)                special account                               Bull


3.Ol(b)(ii)             Project Advance Account and i n i t i a l     Bull
3 , 0 l ( b ) ( i i i ) depoeit


3.03(a)                 Preparation of updated three-year             Bull
                        program f o r t h e water supply sector
                        by August 31


3.03(b)                 Guarantee t h a t propoeed inveetments        Bull
                        are just i fied


3.03(c)                 Preeentation of proposed DGHER                Not done
                        budget by AUgUet 31


                        Guarantee t h a t the communes w i l l
                        contribute 5%of t h e t o t a l coat of
                        t h e c i v i l worke performed


Q.Ol(b)(ii)             Presentationof audit reports on               Compliance, but with
                        t h e project accounts and DGHER              delaye
                        accounte by June 30


                        Separate accounts f o r w a t e r and         Bull
                        e l e c t r i c i t y operatione


5.01                    Eetabliehment of a steering                   Bull
                        committee t o monitor t a r i f f e and
                        t h e inetitutional etudy


                        Review of adequacy of t h e level of          Not done, REGIDESO's
                        charges f o r e l e c t r i c a l services    r a t e e w e r e adopted


                        Guarantee t h a t water charges w i l l       Full
                        be paid by the beneficiariee


                        Review of w a t e r chargee by t h e end      Bull
                        of October i n each year

                       A.   Staff input8 (8taff-uooks)




LOP      2.7   0.6     2.3   1.1
 LEMP    2.8   8.8     8.7   0.3
LENA                  25.9
 LENn                  0.2   0.7
 PAD                         2.4
 SPN                         2.0    3.3    4.4    6.0    6.8    6.3    5.8



Thia gives a total of 117.1 etaff-weeke for the entire project cycle.




 Stage of project                    Period in      Number of     Number of
 cycle                 Month/year   field (daye)     pereone     etaff-days

 Identification 1         05/79
 Identification 2         11/79

 Preparation 1
 Preparation 2
 Preparation 3
 Preparation 4
 Preparation 5

Pre-appraieal
Appraieal
Poet-appraieal

 Superviaion 1
 Supervieion 2
 Superviaion 3
 Supervieion 4
 Supervieion 5
 Supervieion 6
 Supervieion 7
 Supervieion 8
 Supervieion 9
 Supervieion 10
 Supervieion 11
 Supervieion 12

 Thie givee a total of 238 miseion staff-day8

9.   Project mtudiem


                                                              Statur


 1. Feamfbility mtudiem of     Project preparation             Completed
    48 water mupply project.

2.  Final deaign atudiea for   Preparation of f i n a l        Completod
    33 water mupply mymtemm    deaignm for project works

3. Feamibility mtudiem for     Preparation of follow-up        Completed
   40 other water aupply       project i n water aupply
    mystemm i n 4 provinces    aector (Credit 2288-BU)

4. Final demign mtudiem for    Not included i n the            Completed
   t h e 40 new water mupply   project a t t h e t i m e of
   mystemm                     appraimal





