23 </ o - 3153-D2
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9537-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(PSIC)
FEBRUARY 13, 1992
Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 15, 1991)
Currency Unit - Taka (Tk)
US$1.00 = Tk. 36.49
Tk. 1.00 = US$0.0274
Fiscal Year
Government of Bangladesh   Julv 1 - June 30
Financial Year
Participating Credit
Institutions                January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ABB       --  Arab Bangladesh Bank
ADB       --  Asian Development Bank
BB        --  Bangladesh Bank
BCD       *-  Banking Control Department of Bangladesh Bank
BMRE      --  Balancing, Modernization, Rehabilitation, Expansion
BPT       --  Best Practical Technology
BSB       --  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSRS      --  Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
CDC       - C- ommonwealth Development Corporation
DB        --  Dubai Rank Ltd.
DFI       --  Development Finance Institution
DOE       --  Department of Environment
DOSRI     --  Directors, Officers, Shareholders, and Related Insiders
EC        --  Executive Committee
EIA       --  Environmental Impact Assessment
ESCAP     --  Economic and Social Commission for Asia and Pacific
EOP       --  End of Period
FSC       --  Financial Sector Credit
FY        --  Fiscal Year
GDP       --  Gross Domestic Product
GOB       --  Governm.ent of the People's Republic of Aangladesh
IDA       --  International Development Association
IMF       --  International Monetary Fund
IFIC      --  International Finance Investment and Commerce Bank Ltd.
IIC       --  Industrial Investment Credit
IPDC      --  Industrial Promotion and Development Company of Bangladesh Ltd.
ISC       --  Industrial Sector Credit
MOEF      --  Ministry of Environment and Forests
NCB       --  Nationalized Commercial Bank
NGO       --  Nongovernmental Organization
PCI       --  Participating Credit Institutions
RIP       --  Revised Industrial Policy
SDR       --  Special Drawing Right
SMI       --  Small and Medium Industry
SOE       --  Statement of Expenditure
TA        --  Technical Assistance
TIP       --  Trade and Industrial Policy
UCB       --  United Commercial Bank
UNDP      --  United Nations Development Program
UNEP      --  United Nations Environmental Program
USAID     --  United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT (PSIC) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMh1RY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
A.   Structure of the Financial Sector  . . . . . . . . . .1
B.  Banking Evolution and Performance  . . . . . . . . . .       2
C.  IDA's Experience with Financial Intermediaties   . . .       3
D.  Developing Alternative Sectoral Strategies . . . . . .       4
E.  Financial Sector Reform  . . . . . . . . . . .               5 . . .  S
F.  The Project and Financial Sector Reforms . . . . . . .       7
II.  INDUSTRY IN THE BANGLADESH ECONOMY  . . . . .  . . . . . .       9
A. The Economy.                                                  9
B. Industry.                                                     9
- The Policy Framework  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
- Structure and Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11
C.  Investment and Financing Trends  . . . . . . . . . . .      12
D.  The Supply of Loanable Funds fo. Industrial Investment      13
III. THE PROJECT.. ..............                                     15
A.   Project Objectives and Descriptior . . . . . . . . . .     15
B.  General Conditions of Participation  . . . . . . . . .      15
C.  Participating Credit Institutions  . . . . . . . . . .      16
- Arab Bangladesh Bank Ltd. . . . . . . . . . . . .        17
- International Finance Investment and  . . . . . . .
Commerce Bank Ltd.  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  18
- United Commercial Bank Ltd. . . . . . . . . . . . .      19
- The Industrial Promotior and Development Company
of Bangladesh Ltd.  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  19
- Strategic Aspects of Access to Project Funds  . . .      21
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      21
E.  Training   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  22
F.  Costs and Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in August 1990.
Mission members included Messrs. B. Cu Kok (Mission Leader) and J.D. Von
Pischke (Sr. Operations Officer)--ASIIE; S. Ahmad (Program Officer) and
A. Hasan (Sr. Operations Officer)--ASlBG; and M.K. Qadir--Consultant.
Post-appraisal missions were undertaken by Messrs. Von Pischke, Ahmad and
Hasan in March and October 1991. The report has been endorsed by Messrs.
J. Kraske (Director, SAlDR), F. Temple (Chief, ASlIE), and Y. Huang
(Chief, SAlCI). The peer reviewer was Mr. Arie Chupak (Sr. Financial
Analyst)--AS2AG. Secretarial support was provided by Mmes. I. Christy,
L.F. Goh and H. Sutrisna.



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
G.   Environmental Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       24
H.   Debt Recovery Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       26
IV. THECREDIT                            .27
A. Terms and Conditions .27
Credit  Amount  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
. Lending Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       27
Credit Component .27
.Onlending .28
Interest  Rates    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  29
.Amortization  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32
. Subloan Eligibility and Size  . . . . . . . . . .       32
o  Subloan  Review    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  33
. Environmental TA .33
B.  Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        34
Procurement .34
Disbursement .34
. Reporting, Accounts and Auditing  . . . . . . . .       35
V.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       36
A.   Benefits   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  36
B.   Risks      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  36
Inexperience    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  36
Hostile Environment   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       36
- Competitive Pressures   . . . . . . . . . . . . .       37
Client Selection and Insider Abuse  . . . . . . .       37
Other  Risks  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  37
C.   Other  Concerns   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  33
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . .       39
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1   Arab Bangladesh Bank Limited
ANNEX 2    International Finance Investment and Commerce Bank Limited
ANNEX 3    The United Commercial Bank Limited
ANNEX 4    Industrial Promotion and Development Company of Bangladesh Limited
ANNEX 5    Project Subloan Portfolio Analysis
ANNEX 6    Term Transformation by PCIs
ANNEX 7   Foxmula for Pricing Proceeds of the IDA Credit to PCIs
ANNEX 8    Interest Rate Matrix: Effective from December 1, 1991
ANNEX 9   Environmental Guidelines and Standards Component
ANNEX 10  Documents in the Project File
ANNEX 11  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
MAP: IBRD 20726R



BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:                       People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiaries:                  Financial institutions expected to participate
as intermediaries under the credit component
include Arab Bangladesh Bank, industrial
Promotion and Development Company, International
Finance Investment and Commerce Bank, and United
Commercial Bank. Other banks could participate
in the credit component when they meet
eligibility criteria. Technical assistance
would be provided to the Department of
Environment (DOE) of the Ministry of Environment
and Forests to develop and apply industrial
environmental guidelines ard standards.
Amount:                         SDR 18.3 million (US$25.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                          Standard IDA terms (40 years maturity)
Onlending Terms:                Proceeds would be onlent to participating credit
institutions (PCIs) in either US dollars or
Taka, repayable within 15 years on a
back-to-back basis in semi-annual installments
according to a schedule determined by subloan
maturities. Subloan maturities would be
dett-_ined by PCIs in negotiation with
subborrowers. Dollar funds would be provided to
PCIs at a fixed rate equal to six-month LIBOR
plus 2.0Z. Taka funds reloaned at variable
rates subject to repricing every six months
would be provided to PCIs at a blended rate
derived from the average interest cost of
private banks' deposits and the average interest
cost of their deposits available for term
lending. 'raka funds reloaned at a fixed rate
would be priced at 1Z below the blended rate
applied to variable rate financing, but at not
less than the private banks' average interest
cost of deposits. Dollar subloan interest rates
would be determined freely by PCIs in
negotiation with subborrowers, and Taka subloan
interest rates would be similarly determined
within rate bands for medium and large scale



- ii -
industrial term lending established from time to
time by Bangladesh Bank.
Benefits:                       The credit line will deliver benefits th-ough
the financing of private investrments. It will
lengthen the term structure of the financial
market and introduce US dollar lending by
financial institutions in Bangladesh for
domestic investment, promoting access to term
finance by the private sector. The TA
supporting the development and application of
environmental guidelines and standards will
assist assessment of the risk to the environment
from industrial processes.
Risks:                          The major Project risk is that PCIs will lose
money on subloans because of inexperience, an
environment hostile to formal finance,
competition from nationalized financial
institutions, poor client selection and insider
abuse. Attempts to manage these risks are
included in this Project and in continuing
support for financial reforms supported by the
FSC. However, term lending in Bangladesh
remains risky. Risk to the natural environment
arises from a lack of clear-cut legislation,
inadequate monitoring and rent-seeking behavior.
The Project attempts to assist a process that
will diminish these risks over time.
Financing Plan:                          (US$ Millions)       Percentage
Subborrowers                        20.0               39.4
PCIs                                 5.0                9.9
IDA                                 25.5               50.3
Government                           0.2                0.4
TOTAL                               50.7              100.0
Rate of Return:                 Not Applicable.
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Annual                 3.7    5.7    7.6    6.5    1.9    0.1
Cumulative             3.7    9.4   17.0   23.5   25.4   25.5



BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDTT (PSIC) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
1.1         An efficient financial system could accelerate development in
Bangladesh, especially in the private sector. However, the cour.try's formal
financial sector fell into a critical state since underlying weaknesses led to
deteriorating performance in the 1980s. Loan portfolios of the dominant, state-
owned commercial banks and development finance institutiotns (DFIs) became
bu:dened by high levels of arrears which were the result of poor loan recovery
performance. This in turn reflected credit decisions motivated excessively by
noncommercial considerations. As a consequence, IDA and other donors ceased
supporting new credit operations.  The supply of term financing for private
industry dried up in the absence of new funds and of robust recoveries of
amounts falling due on loans made by the large banks and DFIs.
1.2         In 1989, following enquiries by a government-appointed Banking
Commission and IDA-supported sector work, the Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh (GOB) began a wide-ranging banking reform supported by
IDA's Financial Sector Credit (FSC - Credit 2152-BD). This has provided a
policy framework for new IDA lending through financial intermediaries.  An
institutional opportunity for such lending has been created by the formation
since the early 1980s of banks and nonbank financial institutions not dominated
by GOB ownership. The proposed project would be the first IDA venture to
channel credit through institutions outside the state-owned system against a
background of continuing financial reforms. This chapter describes the
financial system ana the reforms; the industrial sector and trends in industrial
investment are summarized in Chapter II.
A. Structure of the Financial Sector
1.3         The formal financial sector includes Bangladesh Bank (BB) as the
central bank, 21 commercial banks, two agricultural development banks, two
state-owned development finance institutions (DFIs), a public investment
company, four capital market institutions, two large state-owned and several
private insurance companies, and some leasing firms. Development of the capital
market has been slow, and the stock exchange is small.
1.4         Commercial banks dominate Bangladesh's formal financial sector.  As
of mid-1991, four nationalized commercial banks (NCBs), ten domestic private and
mixed ownership banks and seven foreign banks had a total of more than 4,000
branches. While the NCJBs continue to grow, their market share dropped from more
than 90Z of commercial bank deposits in 1981 to less than 68% in 1990 due to
privatization of two NCBs and the rapid growth of new private banks. The two
privatized former NCBs have a 9Z deposit market share, foreign banks 7?, and



-2
other domestic banks, which are largely private, about 15Z. GOB has sold about
261 of the smallest remaining NCB and 1i considering partially divesting two
others. NCBs have played a key role-in channeling credit to the Government's
"priority" sectors, while private and foreign banks concentrate on more
profitable commercial and industrial clients.
B. Banking Evolution and Performance
1.5         Bangladesh's macro-financial policies have resulted in relatively
stable money, reasonable levels of financial savings through the banking system,
and substantiai flows of funds to GOB's priority sectors.  However, the country
remains among the world's poorest in terms of per capita income, demonstrating
that the financial, economic, social, political and natural environment in
Bangladesh has been manifestly hostile to the creation of wealth, which is
suspect, politically and socilly, as evidenced by GOB controls. of all sorts.
This behavior limits the opportunities for successful credit operations because
the formal financial sector is most visible in the process of wealth creation
and therefore subject to high levels of intervention and rent-seeking behavior.
1.6         The major barrier to the development of an effective formal
financial system for many years was GOB policy and actions which had a largely
destructive impact on the banking system. Especially harmful were
(a) intervention in the management of the banking system consequent to its
nationalization which resulted in everstaffed NCBs that never developed an
independent credit culture; (b) pressures to lend to GOB-designated priority
sectors including nationalized industry, small scale enterprise, jute and other
agriculture. Loans were made with insufficient regard for credit risk and
commercial criteria in formulas and other critoria used in loan sizing and
allocation; (c) interest rate controls that virtually eliminated price
competition and made priority sector lending and mobilization of term deposits
commercially unattractive; (d) accounting practices that masked bad debt; and
(e) a deficient legal and institutional framework for debt recovery which
dampened credit d'scipline and collection efforts. Monetary policy relied on
credit ceilings supplemented by BB refinancing of priority sector lo&ns,
sometimes conflicting with broader development objectives.
1.7         NCBs became severely distressed; a significant portion of their
portfolios became overdue. BB supervision was inadequate in diagnosing problems
and in reversing the deterioration. NCB staff were also reported to be corrupt.
The NCBs' problems eventually required extensive reforms, which were initiated
in 1989. Bad debt losses recognized in 1989 by the NCBs were almost 15 times
larger than their capital, even though the criteria used to identify bad debt
losses are relatively lenient by international standards. This required massive
financial restructuring that is now virtually completed.
1.8         The private and mixed ownership domestic banks not dominated by GOB
shareholding have grown significantly during their relatively short history
since the late 1970s. For example, while the NCBs had 12.9 million deposit
accounts on their books as of mid-1988, of which 17 accounts had balances of



-3-
Tk. 100 million or more, the corresponding figures for the private and mixed
ownership domestic banks were 2.5 million and 12. Of these 2.5 million
accounts, 2.3 million had balances of less than Tk. 25,000, demonstrating a wide
client base. These small accounts, with an average size of only Tk. 2,5S
provided 172 of their total deposit base. At the same time they reported
160,000 loan accounts, compared to the NCBs' 2.1 millJon. Of these 160,000 loan
accounts, about 602 comprising only 3Z of their total advances were
agricultural. More than 6,000 that accounted for 202 of total loans were
industrial; a quarter of th,:se were working capital facilities. About 35,000
trade financing advances were recorded accounting far more than 602 of funds
outstanding, along with 11,000 loans to "miscellaneous services.P
C. IDA's Experience with Financial Intermediaries
1.9          Finarcial intermediaries using l'' funds for industrial development
operations in Bangladesh through 1981 were designed to respond to an economy not
growing as fast as had been hoped. Industrial growth was disappointing, while
population growth continued unabated and natural disasters continued to take
their toll. This sense of crisis also led to IDA involvement in trade and
industrial policy and reforms, noted in chapter II, that parallelled the attempt
to stimulate industry with term credit.
1.10        In the difficult environment of the late 1970s and early 1980s,
credit projects supported by IDA performed dismally. These projects illustrate
the extent to which the environment was hostile to finance. By 1981 IDA had
approved five industrial investment credit projects, all through state-owned
financial institutions: two lines of credit to an industrial DFI, the Bangladesh
Shilpa Bark (BSB), and three small-scale industry projects through NCBs.
Project Completion Reports show that these financial institutions tended to be
disbursement-driven and oblivious to risk, to determine loan amounts
mechanically on a formula basis, to price loans too cheaply, and to tolerate if
not encourage opportunistic behavior.
1.11        These projects' most enduring result was bad debt losses.  For
example, on the third and last small scale industry project, Credit 1065-BD
approved in FY81, these losses approximate the amounts disbursed by the
participating NCBs. Results for the two previous small scale projects (Credits
353-BD and 825-BD) were similar. A 1989 Bank-wide review1u of 33 small scale
industry credit projects supported by the Bank or IDA that had closed over a 15-
year period, listed only one with a lower collection rate at completion than the
three implemented in Bangladesh. BSB's performance has been among the worst of
any DFIs in IDA's portfolio.
Wc-   Bank Lending for Small and Medium Enterprises:  Fifteen Years  of
ExpeLience, Industry and Energy Department Working Paper, Industry Series
Paper No. 20, December 1989, p. 18.



- 4 -
1.12        These projects' objectives were specified primarily in terms of
industrial and distributional ends.  These proved unobtainable through credit
because of overwhelming problems endemic in the formal financial sector,
especially in nationalized institutions, that vwere neither sufficiently
appreciated nor ade,%lately addressed in project design nor clarified by qector
work. The flaw wbich became apparent by the mid-1980s was the implicit
assumption that good investment and good lending opportunities are congruent.
An environmnvnt hostile to finance, which includes confidence, collections and
contracts, causes these two related but greatly different posstbLAities to
diverge. Policy-constrained, poorly performing banks can lose money in a
booming economy, and especially so in a lagging C   omy.  IDA's subsoquent
initiatives, with two exceptions (paras. 1.17ff) separated interventions ir
industry from those in finance.
1 13        Technical assistance (TA) did not materially improve state-owned
financial institutions because it did not respond to incentives and paid
insufficient attention to cost implications. As a result, recipient
institutions felt imposed unor and accepted TA reluctantly. Con3uitant
recruitment was delayed, and those engaged produced little lasting benefit.
St-ff selected for training were often being rewarded or those who could be
spared, not necessarilv those who needed training.
1.14        Frustrated by these grave problems, IDA has not approved a normal
industrial investment crediL project since the FY81 Third Small Scale Industry
credit project. A fourth project was designed and processed through the green
cover stage in the mid-1980s, but abandoned as the deficiencies of the three
predecessor proiects became more acute. In retrospect, the net results of these
projects appear to have been negative.
D. Developing Alternative Sectoral Strategies
1.15        Excluding the abortive attempt at a fourth small scale credit
project, throughout this 10-year credit project hiatus IDA has pursued two
options: maintaining a presence with financial institutions and promoting
reforms. During this period there evolved a separation of measures aimed at
improving industrial performance from measures directed toward improving the
financial sector. This has offered a clearer focus on financing processes and
avoids inherent conflicts in targeted credit.
1.16        While not approving new credit projects through GOB-owned credit
institutions, IDA maintained a presence with these lenders in three ways.
First, it continued project cycle activities on credit projects approved before
1982 which continued through the second half of the 1980s. IDA has also
supervised an Industrial Sector Credit (paras. 2.5ff), and iute and textile
restructuring projects, which had fina.'cial components. It prepared Project
Completion Reports for small-scale industry, textile rehabil.iLation, and BSB
projects. Second, it has more recently been involved with two DFIs, BSB and
Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha (BSRS), through monitoring a UNDP-financed, ADB-
executed technical assistance project (para 2.5(c)).



5,-
I           1.17         The third way of maintaining a presence was the support of two
limited, special purpose credit projects.  These tried to combine t.ighly
specLfic objectives -or the industrial sector with credit, contrary to the
evolving trend of separating these into distinct initiatives.  However, each had
features (a speciel fund and an agency arrangement) ttat attempted to insulate
project performance from the weaknesses of the state-owned lenders. The FY88
,ndustrial Energy Efficiency Project (IEEP - Credit 1942-BD) was intended to
finance industr4il firms' investment in energy conservation and cogeneration
through agency arrangements with an NCB which did not bear the credit risk. The
FY89 Export Development Project (E')P - Credit 2000-BD) was intended co promote
nontraditional exports by providing short-term pre-shipment financing and
technical. assistance, financed from a special fund.
1.18        Ne'ther project has disbursed well.  The IEEP has not disbursed
because most prospective state-owned subborrowers cannot meet creditxrorthiness
standards and have easier access to cheaper funds through GOB's development
budget, while some prospective private stbborrowers have used other funds to
finance these relatively small investments. However, three large, private
subprojects are currently under review. The EDP failed to provide attractive
funds: spreads on Taka loans, including a small subsidy on local currency export
loans, may reach 8-9Z, while the spreads on project funds available to the banks
at LIBOR+1 have rarely excceded 3.5Z. Exporters also have little reason to use
project funds. They continue to prefer recourse to the secondary exchange
market, which has the capacity to deal with their demand for foreign exchange.
In addition, outside the garment industry, there are relatively few exporters of
nontraditional products who use imported raw materials, the target group of the
project. Many import in bulk and rnot on the basis of export letters of credit
as required for access to project funds. The lesso-s from each project are that
targeted credit easily misses, credit projects perform poorly in a weak
financial system, and pricing 'onsiderations are paramount wheii project funds
are offered irn an increasingly competitive financial market subjected to
fundamental, IDA-supported reforms.
E. Financial Sector Reform
1.19        Banks and their borrowers are most likely to allocate resources
efficiently when interest rates reflect credit risk, the time value of money as
determined in competitive markets, and profit required to ensure capital
adequacy and support expansion. The pre-reform lending rate structure
prescribed the lowest interest rates for the high risk priority sectors, which
undermined the NCBs and discouraged private banks from lending to priority
sectors. Simultar.?ously, banks were required to pay positive real rates for
term deposits to support GOB's credit and savings objectives.
1.20        Measures to improve the financial environment in Bangladesh began in
the mid-1980s. In 1986 a GOB-appointed task force, the National Commission on
Money, Banking and Credit, recommended wide-ranging reforms. Areas highlighted
for attention included rural branching policy, bank capital requirements,
controls and decentralization of decision-making within the NCBe, GOB



*6-
representation on the boards of private banks, insider abuse and conflicts of
interest, sectoral credit limits and quotas, unification of requirements applied
to domestic and foreign banks, establishment of a credit information bureau and
the exchange of information an.ong banks, deposit insurance, mobilization of term
deposits, mandates for and controls on nonbank financial intermediaries, bank
supervision, housing finance, pawnshops and informal credit, and capital market
development. While many recommendations were inconsistent with liberalization,
the report's general thrust was to put banking on a more commercial basis. The
Cabinet bubsequently reviewed recommendations submitted in 1989 by a GOB-
initiated NCB management task force.
1.21        IDA's concern about low subloan recovery rates led to broader
attention to the formal financial sector's problems, and a major IDA sector
review initiated in 198621 assisted the search for creative, viable responses to
a deepening crisis. Recommendations discussed with GOB in 1988 included a
matrix of sweeping changes that attempted to address numerous deficiencies in
financial sector operation. This led to the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(FSC - Credit 2152-BD) approved by IDA in 1990. Changes being implemented under
the FSC-supported program include:
(a)   Macro-financial policy reforms:
(i)   interest rates: deregulate deposit and lending rates, make
costs of remaining subsidized rates transparent and
reimburse these costs to banks,
(ii)   credit controls: replace direct credit ceilings with
indirect monetary instruments and open market operations,
and protect banks on large loans made at GOB request to
poorly-performing parastatals;
(b)   Improving central bank supervision of the banking system;
(c)   Recapitalizing the NCBs following extensive portfolio reviews to
identify bad and doubtful debts requiring provisions; introduction
of improved management and accounting systems, and achievement of
better loan collection performance; and
(d)   Other: strengthen the legal framework for debt recovery, revise
regulations affecting banks, and build capital markets.
1.22        Under the first of three FSC tranches, GOB liberalized interest
rates, replaced direct monetary controls with indirect measures, improved BB
supervision, and recapitalized the NCBs (pare. 1.24). GOB has enacted
legislation conducive to loan recovery and set up 19 special loan recovery
courts. These courts have greatly accelerated judicial processes and made the
Bangladesh: A Program for Financial Sector Reform, (In Two Volumes), Industry
and Energy Division, Country Department 1, Asia Region,
Report No: 6901-BD, December 17, 1987.



threat of legal action more credible. However, meeting collection targets has
been difficult for the NCBs, in part because of sticky arrears owed by state-
owned rirms, but additional measures are being taken to move closer to targets.
Obtaining TA is also behind schedule due primarily to delays by the
confinancier. TA is regarded by IDA as essential to the success of reforms of
state-owned financial institutions.
1.23        Release of the second tranche is envisaged in FY92.  Significant
progress has been made on many fronts and there is no organized political
opposition to the reforms. Debt recovery legislation and establishment of debt
recovery cr trts have been impressive. Interest rate liberalization has
progressed without incident; one consequence is that private banks' lending for
smaller industrial borrowers has increased. Provisions for bad and doubtful
loans according to new BB criteria have been undertaken for 1989 and 1990
accounts. This has led to increased efforts to collect arrears. GOB has
provided specific amounts to each NCB to satisfy revised capital requirements,
and other banks have raised additional capital.
F. The Project and Financial Sector Reforms
1.24        Continuing reforms in the financial sector provide a basis for the
Private Sector Industrial Credit (PSIC), which would finance private industrial
investment following and supporting these and subsequent reforms. Although some
FSC second tranche conditions are not yet satisfied and hence release has not
occurred, sufficient progress has been made with reforms that affect private and
mixed ownership banks to justify the proposed project. These include interest
rate reforms, provisioning and recapitalization, and debt recovery legislation
and institutions that increase the ability to enforce contracts. To further the
reform process GOB has rpsolved an ambiguity in the definition of bank capital
in the Bank Company Act 1991.
1.25        Of special relevance is the gradual freeing of interest rates.  FSC-
supported reforms i:ave introduced interest rate bands for different types of
lending (paras. 4.8-4.20), and these are determined by BB with reference to
"shadow" rates that are a proxy for rational economic interest rates.  Shadow
rates are calculated according to procedures specified under the FSC. The
lending rate reflects the cost of funds, administrative expenses and bad debt
expense norms, commissions and other fees, and a target profit margin. Shadow
deposit rates are based on projections of the rate of inflation.
1.26        At the introduction of interest rate reform, commercial banks were
required to fix their rates for specific types of loans within the relevant
bands every six months and to deal with all clients at the rate specified for
the type of facility concerned. In early 1991 the banks began fixing their
rates monthly within the bands, which provides more flexibility and
responsiveness to market forces. GOB has stated its intention to widen interest
rate bands consistently and eventually abolish them, and to permit banks to
quote different rates to different customers based on their evaluation of the
relationship and on negotiations with clients in a competitive market. As a



first step in this process, GOB has indicated that it would widen the bands on
term finance for medium and large scale industry between the end of December
1991 and project effectiveness and each year thereafter for five years or until
bands are abolished if this occurs within five years. Additionally, GOB would
permit bankers to charge different rates for loane of different maturities, for
different borrowers or types of borrowers classified by industrial subsector in
negotiation with their clients (paras. 4.14 and 4.15).



. 9 -
II. INDUSTRY IN THE BANGLADESH ECONOMY
A. The Economy
2.1         Bangladesh has a population of 110 million and per capita income
of US$170 equivalent. Bangladesh is vulnerable to natural disasters; its
economy has serious structural problems. GOB has rather consistently
liberalized following extensive nationalizations and the imposition of
economic controls immediately after the advent of nationhood in 1971. What
began as a highly controlled economic system has become increasingly free,
although many opportunities remain for further deregulation and decontrol.
2.2         Over the last ten years GOB has undertaken three major initiatives
in national economic management. In the early 1980s it implemented a
stabilization program that included demand management, financial
stabilization, structural reforms to reduce dependence on oil, and
privatization of state enterprises. This was successful in certain respects,
but new industrial investment rates continued to decline. GDP growth averaged
4% against a population growth rate of 2.72. Industry and agriculture growth
rates barely kept pace with population increases. In FY87 GOB embarked on
another course with a three-year structural adjustment program assisted by the
IMF and IDA (paras. 2.5ff). Implementation slowed in FY88 and FY89, due
partly to floods. Energy and financial sector reforms were delayed, and
earlier reforms in food subsidies and exchange rates were reversed. In FY90,
with a return to good weather and economic recovery, the fiscal deficit
burgeoned, the balance of payments came under severe strain, and foreign
exchange reserves fell to about 1.7 months of imports in December 1989.
2.3         GOB faced this situation by preparing another three-year
structural adjustment program, for FY91-FY93, again with help from the IMF and
IDA. The Policy Framework Paper issued in May 1990 lists the program's
macroeconomic objectives: sustain an average annual 5% GDP growth; contain the
budget deficit at 7Z of GDP; limit the current account deficit to 7% of GDP;
reduce inflation to 6% from the 11X that prevailed in 1990; and increase
investment to 14X of GDP by FY93. Policy measures include liberalization in
all sectors.
B. Industry
The Policy Framework
2.4         In industry, as in finance, there has been a liberalizing trend
toward rational economic policies. Private industry has been encouraged
through privatization and by permitting investment in areas formerly reserved
for the state. Since the mid-1970s IDA has conducted industrial sector work
and supported reforms that have supported this trend (paras. 2.2, 2.3). This
has assisted GOB reforms and industrial growth by relaxing constraints on



10 -
private investment, liberalizing trade, strengthening financial institutions,
and increasing state enterprise efficiency. The first of these efforts was
major sector work that facilitated the Trade and Industrial Policy (TIP)
Reform Program, which was initiated in 1979 and led to some liberalization of
Bangladesh's trade and industrial policies.
2.5         A second major initiative was GOB's 1986 Revised Industrial Policy
which sought to expand the private sector, make state-owned enterprises more
efficient, liberalize trade, and provide export incentives. Supported by
IDA's sector work and the FY87 Industrial Sector Credit (ISC - Credit 1816-BD)
(para. 1.16) that resulted, these efforts created a more favorable environment
and gave some impetus to private ready-made garment manufacturing, textiles,
and food processing. Reforms continued with the opening of many sectors to
private investment in 1987, and GOB continues to be more open to private
industrial initiatives. Measures linked to the second tranche release in June
1988 were:
(a)     Export policy administration: implementation of duty
exemption/drawback and indirect export incentives, improvements in
export financing arrangements and in monitoring garment exports,
improvement of the Export Guarantee Scheme, and maintenance of
flexible exchange rates;
(b)     Tariff and import regime: reductions in (i) negative and
restricted lists, (ii) certain luxury import tariffs, and (iii)
protective tariffs on textiles, steel and engineering goods;
(c)     Development banking reforms: implementation of a DFI TA program
(para. 1.16); achievement of DFI collection targets; and progress
in DFI loan reschedulings and write-offs, in making satisfactory
provisions for bad debts, and in recapitalization.
Initial slowness in trimming the negative and restricted lists, reducing
tariffs on luxury imports, strengthening the monitoring of parastatals, and in
engaging consultants to provide technical assistance to state-owned industrial
lenders were remedied to achieve timely release of the second tranche.
2.6         A second tranche condition that was not fully met, and finally
modified, was improvement of collection performance on loan categories to
which IDA had provided support: industrial term loans by BSB and BSRS and
small scale industrial term loans by the NCBs. BSB and BSRS collectively
achieved 912 of their collection target and GOB undertook to deal with arrears
owing by several state-owned corporations. Although NCBs' collections on
small scale industrial loans improved greatly in 1987 compared to 1986, they
amounted to only 41Z of the target. Modification of the condition was
justified by the improvement in collections, the 1987 flood, political unrest
and the fact that small scale industrial lending constituted less than 1% of
the NCBs' portfolios. Overall the ISC achieved its liberalizing and
institutional performance objectives, but it also affirmed that the
difficulties encountered in efforts to improve the quality of the loan



- 1± -
portfolios of state-ow.,ed credit institutions in Bangladesh are easily
underestimated.
Structure and Performance
2.7         Despite reforms, neither private nor state sector manufacturing
performs particularly well. Real growth in manufacturing averaged 2.62 p.a.
during FY81-FY90, below the 3.22 GDP growth rate, while its contribution to
',DP fell slightly from the 10.6Z level achieved in FY81. State enterprises,
many highly indebted and poorly managed, constitute 40% of modern
manufacturing. !Jew private investment has stagnated. Factors responsible
include limited demand and substantial overcapacity in many sectors,
significant anti-export bias from relatively high protection for import-
substituting industries despite recent progress in tariff reform, and weak
export promotion policies. A repressed financial system provided little term
financing for productive investment.
2.8         GOB has set four Fourth Plan general objectives for industry:
(a) increase industrial contribution to GDP with a target 9.1Z average annual
growth rate, (b) increase industrial employment, (c) improve the sector's
contribution to the balance of payments, and (d) develop technology through
research and adaptation. These objectives could be most easily achieved by:
(a) shifting to an export-led industrial development strategy; (b) encouraging
productivity improvement and capacity utilization; (c) encouraging private
investment with more incentives and deregulation; (d) promoting small and
cottage industries; (e) encouraging subcontracting and backward linkage
industries; (f) developing enterprise zones to circumvent the rigidities of
regulation; and (g) upgrading human resources and technological capabilities.
2.9         To promote industrial development under the FY91-F'93 structural
adjustment program (para. 2.3) GOB intends to simplify investment regulations,
eliminate almost all quantitative import restrictions, rationalize and
eliminate ambiguities in tariffs, reduce maximum tariff levels and remove
export subsidies. In addition, GOB intends to manage the exchange rate to
ensure competitiveness and to promote export diversification and efficient
import substitution.
2.10        IDA has continued to support the central elements of the
adjustment prcgram through the design of ISC II (scheduled for negotiation in
FY92), again based on sector work. Major emphases are continued reduction of
protection, simplification of trade restrictions, and increasing the
efficiency of trade regime administration and of implementation of industrial
development policies. In addition, IDA has pursued reforms in the jute sector
through sector work and preparation of a Jute Sector Adjustment Project
(FY93), which is conceived as the first of a series of projects for this
deeply distressed but politically sensitive industry. Additional sector work
through FY94 is being planned to deal with impediments to industrialization.
Sector studies of state-owned enterprises and of enterprises under the
Ministry of Industries may lead to an operation that would support GOB policy
and institutional reforms and restructure selected enterprises.



- 12 -
C. Investment and Financing Trends
2.11        Reforms in GOB's treatment of industry and finance should offer a
more favorable developmental environment, which is badly needed. Investment
data, while not very reliable, indicate that private investment has been low
and stagnant, and manufacturing's share in total private investment remains
low compared with that of construction and services and is not increasing.
Stagnation characterizes industries dominated by medium and large firms.
However, there has been an upward trend in foreign direct investment and small
scale industrial investments, which are apparently the most dynamic.
2.12        Any improving trends in investment were arrested in 1990.  A
decline in investment occurred because of the drying up of remittances from
workers abroad and by discontinuities as sources of funds dried up for people
no longer in privileged positions. This was followed by several changes that
caused businessmen to postpone investment until the temporary uncertainties
they created had passed. These included imposition of a value added tax
(VAT), an impending reduction in tariff protection, and more effective
policing of borders that reduced smuggling. The ensuing slow down is expected
to last at least until mid-1992.
2.13        Factors that impede industrial investment generally include:
(a) limited opportunities because of the small domestic market; (b) policies
that inhibit manufactured exports; (c) lack of technical or marketing know-
how, especially in export-oriented manufacturing; (d) an entrepreneurial class
specialized in trading and relatively inexperienced in industrial production;
(e) political uncertainty; (f) lucrative and low-risk alternative business
opportunities, especially in trading; and (g) the prevalence of undocumented
payments to government workers. However, liberalized investment and trade
policy, expanding private economic activity, recent financial sector reforms,
and demonstration effects from successful export industries are expected to
increase the volume of investment.
2.14        Currently, the most important sources of investment funds are
self-financing by entrepreneurs, informal credit, and term finance and
rollover of working capital loans by banks. The formal capital market remains
embryonic and serves mostly multinationals and large domestic firms. The
Investment Corporation of Bangladesh and insurance companies used to provide
bridge financing in advance of equity issues, to be retired from the proceeds
of the issue. This lending has been largely discontinued due to bad
experience. Leasing began in the mid-1980s and is growing, with several new
leasing firms coming into operation, but remains quantitatively insignificant
and limited to lessees with good reputations and collateral. Suppliers'
credits are another source of proiect financing.
2.15        BSB and BSRS were once the dominant suppliers of industrial term
financing, especially of loans having maturities greater than three years, but
are now stagnant. Their low recovery rates effectively made them equity
investors by default. Each has a reputation for slow processing and requiring



- 13 -
much documentation. These DFIs have taken large bad debt loss provisions, but
their collection performance is still disappointing.
2.16        Poor repayment records tolerated by state-owned lenders create a
false demand for capital by rent-seeking loan applicants. True demand
consists of sound proposals for bankable projects by credible entrepreneurs.
But banks debilitated by losses have difficulty identifying such proposals,
and all lenders' costs are raised by having to examine a disproportionate
volume of dubious propositions. True investment demand should improve as
financial discipline is restored and practices that discourage industrial
investment are revised.
D. The Supply of Loanable Funds for Industrial Investment
2.17        The market value of the commercial banking system's industrial
term loans outstanding probably does not exceed Tk. 30 billion, and fixed
deposits with a term of at least two years have roughly the same magnitude.
Fixed deposits placed with the banking sector by nonbank private sources
expanded at a rate of more than 20Z per annum in nominal terms throughout the
1980s. However, fixed deposits with original terms to maturity exceeding
three years are negligible. Term deposit growth may be expected to continue
with successful financial reform that lengthens the term structure of
financial markets.
2.18        The pricing of fixed deposits does not yet appear to be fully
rational in an economic sense, although continuing reforms should diminish
distortions. The rate for three-year deposits was reduced from 13.75? to 132
in December 1991. This is almost double the average interest cost of funds
for many banks and is much higher than the call rate as a marginal cost of
funds. It exceeds the government bond rate by a wide margin and has also been
higher than the rate of inflation. The NCBs are the rate-makers in tnis
market and appear more willing than private banks to accept term deposits,
possibly because of GOB policies. Given these factors, and with a relatively
small market for term lending, there has been little effort to mobilize term
deposits aggressively.
2.19        With more competitive financial markets and with increases in
industrial investment in response to reforms, this situation should change.
Term deposit rates should become more rational and would be seen as a means of
financing term lending, not as high-cost liabilities to be avoided wherever
possible.
2.20        The private banks' performance in expanding their time deposits
should equal or exceed that of the NCBs, assuming a favorable environment.
Without a favorable environment the private banks may be less aggressive
mobilizers of term funds because they may not wish to be perceived by GOB as
too competitive against the flagship nationalized system, and because they may
have more latitude than the NCBs to turn away time deposits if rates set by BB
are unattractive. The proposed project should encourage them to lend long and



14 -
will provide a signal that GOB is comfortable with independent initiatives
directed at and through financial intermediaries it does not dominate.
Excluding IPDC, a nonbank, the three deposit-taking PCIs had approximately a
6Z share of the total commercial bank loan market at the end of 1989.
2.21        The proposed US$25 million equivalent (Tk. 9I2 million) credit
component is reasonable and significant with reference to the estimated rate
of investment by private industridlists and in relation to the minimum viable
size of an IDA credit to Bangladesh. A larger credit is not warranted in view
of experience with credit projects in Bangladesh and the relatively recent
adoption of financial reform, which is only now being tested by economic
adversity.
2.22           The size of the proposed project amounted to about 842 of the
four PCIs' capital after adjustments for bad and doubtful debt and
recapitalization based on year-end 1990 positions. The proposed IDA Credit
equals about 7% of the PCIs' loans outstanding as of the end of 1990. This
would not be an unreasonable level of term lending for the PCIs. Spread over
a five-year disbursement period during which the PCIs should grow
significantly, the project should not be limited by the capacity of PCIs to
absorb and place term funds.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Obiectives and Description
3.1         The proposed project would further financial sector reforms
initiated by GOB with the support of the FSC (paras. 1.21ff) while financing
private investments in productive activities. It would do this in several
ways: First, condition': of loan and subloan pricing would permit more
rational decision-making by lenders and subborrowers (paras. 4.8ff). Second,
it would expand term lending facilities in Taka, offering fixed and variable
rate subloans, and introduce US dollar-denominated term lending (paras. 4.7,
4.19ff), by providing a line of credit equivalent to US$25 million. Third, it
would support private sector development through subloans for industrial
investments (para. 4.22). In addition, the project would include technical
assistance for the development and application of environmental guidelines and
standards for industry (paras. 3.39ff).
B. General Conditions of Participation
3.2         Financial institutions that could be considered for eligibility to
participate in the project include all types of banks and DFIs. From this
field, up to four participating credit institutions would be selected
initially according to general criteria applied to their financial structure
and performance (paras. 3.3ff). The general criteria for each of three types
of institutions are listed below and specific conditions are listed in
paras. 4.3-4.4.
(a)   Each domestically chartered deposit-taking PCI would have to:
(i)   have operated for at least five years;
(ii)   have total accamulated provisions and suspension of
interest as of December 31, 1989, and each subsequent
year-end, equal to 100X of provisions and suspension of
interest required by BB or have adopted a plan and
timetable acceptable to BB for achieving these levels of
provisions and suspensions (para. 6.3(c));
(iii)   be in compliance with section 13(3) of the Bank Company
Act 1991, which requires minimum capital equal to 6Z of
total demand and time liabilities, or have adopted a plan
and timetable acceptable to BB for achieving this level of
capitalization (para. 6.3(d));
(iv)   if not in compliance with capital and provisioning
requirements, have an inflation-adjusted net profit equal
to at least 0.5 of total assets after all provisions and



- 16 -
suspension of interest under BCD Circular 34 and dividends
declared for the most recently completed financial year
(excluding FY89 when profits were reduced by extraordinary
provisions required with the implementation of FSC
reforms);
(v)   present audited annual financial statements prepared by an
auditor acceptable to IDA carrying an opinion acceptable
to IDA no later than six months after the end of each
financial year, except that the 1989 and 1990 reports
would bo presented to .DA as an initial condition of
participation; and
(vi)   follow policies and practices that allow profitable
industrial term lending and acceptable levels of
collections and bad debt expense. (Past performance on
collecting amounts due on term loans will be used in the
determination of whether policies and practices are
adequate.)
(b)   Any foreign bank would have to demonstrate its global financial
soundness. Its operations il. Bangladesh would have to satisfy
criteria in (a) above;
(c)   Non-deposit taking development finance institutions would satisfy
the criteria in (a) above, excert (a)(ii), and maintain a capital-
to-assets ratio of at least 25Z.
Failure to maintain levels of performance required for initial participation
would constitute grounds for ineligibility to make new commitments of project
funds.
C. Participating Credit Institutions
3.3         Three private and mixed-ownership commercial banks and a
development finance institution have been identified as interested and
potentially eligible to receive IDA funds. They are: Arab Bangladesh B_.ak
Limited (ABB), Industrial Promotion and Development Company of Bangladesh
Limited (IPDC), International Finance Investment and Commerce Bank Limited
(IFIC), and United Cc mercial Bank Limited (UCB).
3.4         During negotiations GOB agreed to obtain an undertaking from BB to
provide to IDA certification of compliance with project c3nditions related to
the Bank Company Act 1991 and BCD Circular 34 in a timely manner when
requested to do so by banks that are in compliance with such conditions and
which wish to participate in the project (para. 6.1(a)).
3.5         Under GOB's financial sector reform program, commercial banks in
Bangladesh are required to review the quality of their l.oan portfolios



- 17 -
according to specified criteria and to make provisions accordingly for bad and
doubtful debts. Provisioning occasioned by the first review resulted in paper
declines in overstated financial performance; preliminary adjusted 1989
profits for all but 5 of the 21 banks in Bangladesh were negative, and all but
3 banks were required to increase their capital. However, the prospective
PCIs have fared relatively well in this adjustment because their portfolios
are comparatively strong. Their prospects are relatively good because their
policies, procedures and hiring practices facilitate good lending. The most
recently available annual summary information on the prospective PCIs is shown
in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: BANK INFORMATION
Institution                                  ABB          IFIC        IPDC      UCB
Financial Year                              1990          1990        1990      1990
YEAR OPERATION BEGAN                        1981          1983       1983       1983
NUMBER OF BRANCHES                            80            36        15S
NUMBER OF STAFF                              P'16          910         NA      1,334
TOTAL ASSETS (Tk. million)                8,490.0      10,281.0     384.1    8,888.0
TOTAL CAPITAL (Tk. million)                 310.0        282.0      277.6      217.0
CAPITAL TO ASSET RATIO                      3.71          2.7%      78.2%       3.2%
NET INCOME AFTER TAX (Tk. million)         11.56          21.3        8.4       72.2
NET RETURN ON ASSETS                       0.1X%          0.2%       2.3X       1.1%
DIVIDENDS PAID (Tk. million)                   -             -        0°1          -
GROSS OUTSTANDING (Tk. million)           4,480.0     6,268.2b/     18 .O   3,299.0
CLASSIFIED LOANS (Tk. million)               268            NA         NA         NA
AS X OF OUTSTANDING                      8.0%           NA         NA         NA
LOAN LOSS PROVISIONS                        82.0            NA       12.0      187.0
AS X OF CLASSIFIED LOANS                46.0%           NA         NA         NA
TOTAL DEPOSITS                            6,379.0      6,695.0         NA    6,002.0
CAPITAL-TO-DEPOSIT RATIO                     6.8%         4.3%         NA       4.3%
a/ As of 1989
b/ Not
Arab Bangladesh Bank Ltd.
3.6          ABB was incorporated in 1981 as a joint venture between the Dubai
Bank Limited (DB), local sponsors and GOB (Annex 1). DB sold out to local
investors in 1987. Eighty percent of ABB's shareholding is held by four
sponsor directors, 5Z by GOB and 15% by the general public. ABB has more than
30 branches.
3.7          Term lending was 16.52 of its total portfolio in 1989, and
construction loans were the largest single component of its term portfolio.
These loans finance construction of blocks of commercial and residential flats
and also private housing. Project loans constituted 7Z of ABB's credit
portfolio in 1989. As a matter of policy, ABB restricts its term portfolio to
25Z of total advances.



- 18 
3.8         ABB's gross loan portfolio was Tk. 4.5 billion at the end of 1990.
ABB was the first bank to implement new BB guidelines that initiated banking
reforms.
3.9         Previously, no credit portfolio exposure limits were defined and
single industry exposure reached more than 30? of total advances. Similarly,
credit exposure to individual obligors were not limited by policy, and one
case approximated 100X of capital in 1987. In ABB's current policy statement,
single industry and obligor exposure are notionally limited to 25X of its
equity, but is flexible.
3.10        ABB expects to create a special department and train staff to
appraise term proposals under the project. Supervision and monitoring would
be delegated to its Credit Administration Division, where staff would also
undergo training.
3.11        The bank's net loans equalled 822 of total deposits in 1990,
indicating fairly tight liquidity. This is confirmed by management's emphasis
on deposit mobilization and the fact that its major source of incremental
funds is the call money market. Nevertheless, ABB appears to have a fairly
aggressive lending policy: loans exceeded 80X of deposits at year-end in 1988
and in 1990. Contingent liabilities to capital were 512? in 1990.
International Finance Invkstment and Commerce Bank Ltd.
3.12        IFIC was formed as a banking company in 1983 to succeed a firm
established by GOB in 1976 to conduct banking and other financial business
abroad (Annex 2). IFIC has more than 35 branches, including one in Karachi.
Its staff exceeds 1,000. Class A shares held privately comprise 60? of IFIC's
shareholding, and 40? consis.s of class B shares held by GOB. Its director
shareholders, including the Bangladesh Export Import Company (BEXIMCO) group,
own 84Z of the class A shares. Three directors are GOB nominees, and seven
are from the private sector.
3.13        Credit exposure guidelines or restrictions are specified by
sector, type of financing and security or collateral. Its board reviews and
monitors compliance every six months. Yet, IFIC's exposures can be high: 123?
of capital was outstanding to a particular borrower in 1987, and the 18
largest borrowers accounted for 40? of the bank's total credit portfolio.
However, lending is mostly to seasoned clients with established performance
records. Policy regarding loan classification, interest suspension and
provisions for bad and doubtful debts is consistent with BB requirements.
3.14        IFIC's term credit portfolio is small and by policy restricted to
about 3? of total advances. Total loans to industry in 1988 were 15? of the
advances portfolio. There is also a very small volume of bridge financing,
considered by IFIC as equity financing, in a consortium led by the Investment
Corporation of Bangladesh.



- 19 -
3.15        IFIC had a net loan portfolio of Tk. 5.7 billion at the end of
1990. IFIC raised Tk. 250 million in new capital to meet BB requirements
under FSC and at the end of 1990 its capital of T,.. 282 million equalled 2.7%
of total assets.
3.16        IFIC's loan-to-advances ratio was about 872 in 1989 and 1990,
indicating tight liquidity, which is consistent with frequent borrowing in the
call market. Net interest income to total average assets was 1.62 in 1989 and
1-.7Z in 1990, which reflects a fairly high cost of funds.   Contingent
liabilities grew from 468% of capital in 1985 to more than 1,300Z in 1989.
United Commercial Bank Ltd.
3.17        UCB was established in 1983 (Annex 3).  Of its 21 directors, ,S
are sponsor directors, 3 represent public shareholding, and 1 represents GOB's
5% holding. UCB's branch network exceeds 55, and it employs more than 1,500
staff.  The bulk of advances finance trade and working capital.  Term finance
constitutes a small proportion of its portfolio.
3.18        UCB has no formal policy regarding portfolio diversification, and
individual obligor exposure had been as high as 107% of capital.
Classification policy is as prescribed by BB. The Bank's overall pursuit is a
larger deposit base, permitting expansion of advances.
3.19        Project financing is urdertaken infrequently and only to satisfy
borrowers who do sizable business with tne Bank, when management is convinced
of the viability of the project, or to attract a large volume of related
business. Term lending decisions are not subject to any special institutional
arrangements. All term financing is to the private sector and of under five
years maturity.
3.20        UCB's gross loan portfolio was Tk. 3.3 billion at the end of 1990.
Its return on assets was nil in 1989 as a result of BB provisioning
requirements, but rebounded to 1.1% in 1990. UCB's loan-to-deposit ratio was
held at around 60Z in 1989 and 1990. UCB han thus remained relatively liquid
and as a result has frequently lent in the call market. UCB appears to have a
moderate cost of funds: net interest income as a percentage of average assets
was 1.5% in 1989 and 2.42 in 1990. Its contingent liabilities were 6262 of
capital in 1985 and fell to 421Z in 1989.
The Industrial Promotion and Developme.t Company of Bangladesh Ltd.
3.21        IPDC has been in operation since 1983 (Annex 4).  It is a joint
venture between GOB, with a 30% share, and four other investors with equal
holdings: the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), the International
Finance Corporation, the Geripan DEG (Deutsche Investitions-und
Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbli) and the Agha Khan Fund for Economic Development.
IPDC has four foreign directors and two from GOB: the Secretary of Industries
(its Chairman) and a Ministry of Finance representative. There are also two



- 20 -
private sector representatives on the board, one nominated by the foreign
directors and one by GOB. Policy is the prerogative of the foreign
shareholders. IPDC's Managing Director is an expatriate from CDC.
3.22        IPDC was originally envisaged as ai, equity/venture capital
financier. Experience led to re-evaluation: returns on equity financing take
a long time to materialize, and term debt financing was introduced to increase
cash flow.  IPDC is withdrawing from direct equity financing and moving into
bridge financing to increase its portfolio turnover. It finances new and BMRE
pro,jcts. Investment and lending were originally for manufacturing, but now
include the agro-based sector. IPDC may diversify further into mortgage
lending.  Investment in services is prohibited by IPDC policy.  IPDC plans to
enhance its role as an advisory/agent and merchant banker.  The advisory role
envisaged b- IPDC relates to project identification, appraisal, design and
implementation, arranging consortia and providing services such as integrated
accounting procedures and packages for subprojects.
3.23        Paid-up capital stood at Tk. 90 million and the share premium
account at Tk. 34 million in 1990, with reserves (excluding loan loss
reserves) of Tk. 73 million and retained profits accumulated to Tk. 71
million.  These reserves and retained earnings reflect mainly exchange gains
on foreign currency bank balances rather than profits from operations. Equity
and loan loss reserves were Tk. 9 million in 1990, bringing total capital and
reserves to Tk. 278 million at the end of the financial year. IPDC has no
term debt. It carries a general provision of 15X of total equity investments
and 2? of loans c'rtstanding. There are no specific provisions yet.
3.24        Net ir vestments in Bangladesh, Tk. 157 million in 1990, accounted
for less than one-hla1f of available resources. Most of IPDC's other assets
are bank balances -ield in London. This is reflected in IPDC's earnings: in
1990 only 40? of r- "enue was from operations and 60? from interest on foreign
bank balances. F'os- of these deposits cover commitments already made by IPDC,
and each year the proportion of IPDC's assets held as deposits abroad declines
relative to the prctiortion of assets invested in Bangladesh. Disbursements
are slow--many pro .%ts in Bangladesh have a gestation period of more than
four years between  :Laalization of the financing package and start-up.  IPDC
lends in US dollars w enever possible. Its Taka loans are funded by local
borrowing from the ba. king group that holds its dollar deposits offshore,
which are pledged to seure IPDC's local borrowing.
3.25        IPDC's objectives and policies are clearly defined in a 'Statement
of Objectives and Policies' and regularly reviewed by its board. Its
objectives are to identify and promote viable investment opportunities, invest
through equity and loans, act in an advisory capacity, promote foreign
investment and mobilize local investment, particularly from the private
sector, and encourage the development of sound management and the flow of
foreign technical skills and expertise. To balance and diversify its
portfolio, IPDC limits exposure to any single enterprise or group of
enterprises to 10? of its net worth, and to any single industry, to 25Z of its
net worth. Total financing (debt plus equity) for any single venture is
restricted to 30? of that venture's paid-up capital.



- 21 -
3.26        A major source of IPDC's revenues consist of exchange gains on its
bank balances, since its accounts are in Taka. This allows IPDC to absorb the
effect of a 22 blanket provision for loan losses and 152 of equity investments
and still show profits. IPDC is phenomenally liquid. It has paid dividends
of 7.5Z of paiil up capital regularly since 1987.
Strategic Aspects of Access to Project Funds
3.27        The four potential PCIs have different motives for using the
proceeds of the IDA Credit. These differences strengthen the project by
diversification and competition. The potential attractiveness of project
participation to each prospective PCI is as follows:
(a)     ABB and IFIC seek liquidity.  Access to term funds would diminish
their matching risks of lending long;
(b)     UCB would benefit primarily from the opportunity to match long-
term lending with long-term funding under the project;
(c)     IPDC would seek project resources to fund long-term Taka subloans
and to add Taka debt to its largely debt-free balance sheet.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.28        PCIs would administer subloans as specified by their own policies
and procedures which are acceptable to IDA. IDA's supervision strategy will
focus orimarily on the policies, procedures and operations of the PCIs as
demonstrated through subprojects and subloans to ensure their effectiveness as
lenders.
3.29        In addition to IDA's continuing, periodic supervision of the
project's operations, the project design includes reporting arrangements which
will enable the PCIs, GOB and IDA to calculate whether project activities are
profitable for the PCIs. Under the reporting arrangements agreed for the
project, the PCIs will provide information periodically using a reporting
format that will enable them to evaluate the financial performance of
project-funded term loans on their books. This format is given in Annex 5.
At the outset the data will consist largely of projections of subloan
performance, but as time goes on actual data will replace estimates. The
format permits calculation of the accounting profit or lois produced by
subloans during each accounting period and also their net present value
(para. 4.33). The format prescribed does not include administrative or other
overhead costs, but these could be added to the analysis at the option of each
PCI. Also, PCIs may work to develop or refine calculations of the
profitability of their relationships with specific clients (para. 4.17). Ihe
format prescribed under the project can contribute to these calculations.



- 22
3.30        Another objective of the project is to lengthen the term
structures of the participating commercial banks' loan portfolios. (Term
structure is not an issue for the nonbank PCI, which is a specialized term
lender.) One means of lengthening term structures is by term transformation
(called gapping by oankers), which involves offering loans at longer
maturities than the maturities of the deposits that fund them. Gapping is
standard banking practice in many countries. As longer term loans normally
command a greater spread than shorter term loans, it enables successful
lenders to earn a return on the confidence they command among depositors.
Confidence is important, because gapping involves risk. A liquidity risk is
that depositors may withdraw their funds faster than term loans mature and are
collected. Term loans made at fixed interest rates also carry a pricing risk,
as the cost of funds may rise while the loan is outstanding, eroding the
spread on the loan.
3.31        Gapping that is too aggressive leads to illiquidity and bank
failure. This is not a material risk under the project because PCIs do little
gapping at present. Provision of project funds will enable PCIs to match
maturities rather than to gap, as the proceeds of the IDA Credit will carry
approximately the same maturities as the subloans they fund (para. 4.21), and
the proceeds of the Credit will also be priced on a fixed or variable basis,
depending on subloan terms, locking in a spread over the life of the subloan
(para. 4.12). But experience with term lending under the project, if
successful (para. 3.30), should encourage PCIs to engage in gapping using
their own funds.
3.32        A simple gap analysis that shows the ex-ent of term transformation
for each commercial bank PCI as of June 30, 1991 is found in Annex 6. It
would be updated at the end of June and December throughout the project
disbursement period. There are of course no targets or requirements that PCIs
gap. Gapping should be entirely voluntary and in response to market
conditions and the ability and willingness to bear risk.
E. Training
3.33        The project capitalizes on existing expertise in credit analysis
and in banking, and training needs are therefore small. The staff of PCIs and
other financial institutions will have access to training in financial
analysis for term lending through TA being provided by USAID as part of the
reform program supported by the FSC. The Bangladesh Institute of Bank
Management will be the venue for these courses. Prior to effectiveness IDA
will endeavor to assist interested PCIs in arranging technical consultations
with banks abroad that have extensive term lending experience. The basics can
be grasped by commercial lenders in a consultation lasting not more than two
weeks. Credit analysis and decisions are made by a small core of executives
in each PCI, and the number of individuals who might want to engage in
technical consultations is likely to be fewer than 10. IPDC is also in a
position to provide training and technical assistance to other PCIs, and is
willing to do so for a fee.



- 23
F.  Costs and Finan       Plan
3.34         IDA funds would be on-lent by PCIs according to their own
procedures. However, during negotiations GOB agreed that a PCI's exposure to
a subborrower under the project would equal at least 1102 of the subloan
amount outstanding (para. 6.1(b)). Subborrowers not heavily indebted who use
project funds in relatively small amounts might obtain up to 10OZ financing of
the fixed asset element of a subproject investment, with the PCI providing
additional workinig capital, but this would be unusual in practice. PCIs
normally seek comfort in requiring the subborrower to commit its own funds to
some proportion of the subproject cost. No project formula is required
because the PCIs' policies have been found acceptable to IDA (para. 3.5) and
because PCIs' objective is to make profitable loans to sound subborrowers.
Their procedures emphasize security and debt servicing capacity in determining
loan size, rather than debt-to-equity or other balance sheet ratios as primary
benchmarks. Under the project they will be expected to refine their
procedures to incorporate adjustments for risk where these are not already
explicit (paras. 4.23ff).
3.35         In lieu of a comprehensive project financing formula, it is
assumed for the purpose of estimating project costs that PCIs contribute 10X
of subproject costs and that subborrowers subscribe 40Z. The aggregate cost
of projected subproject operations is therefore estimated at US$50 million, of
which IDA would finance US$25 million, or 50I.  The estimated costs and
detailed hypothetical financing plan are shown below:
Table 3.2: Pioject Costs and Financing
Estimated Costs:
Local   F        Total   Local  Foron   Total   _ Forign
C (Tk Million) -------  ==_(US Million)______
Subprojects               912.3   912.3   1,824.5   26.0   26.0    60.0       60.0
Technical Assistancc        7.3    18.2      26.6    0.2    0.6      0.7      71.4
919.6   930.6   1,860.0   26.2   26.5    60.7       60.3
Financing Plan:
Entrepreneurs             729.8     -       729.8   20.0    -        20.0    -0-
PCIs                      182.6     -       182.6    6.0             6.0    -0-
IDA                         -     930.6     930.5           26.6    26.5    100.0
GOB                         7.3     -         7.3    0.2     -       0.2    -0-
919.5   930.6   1.850.    26.2   26.6    60.7      50.3
Note: Amounts and percentage are rounded.



- 24 -
G. Environmental Aspects
3.36        Most environmental laws adopted in Bangladesh were developed under
substantially different population and industrial conditions. Mechanisms for
environmental assessment, regulation, and enforcement either do not exist or
are ineffectual. Corruption is acknowledged to constrain the predictable,
fair, and efficient implementation of laws and plans that directly affect
environmental resources. In addition, except for private tanneries and some
distilleries, the greatest industrial polluters are GOB corporations producing
ferlilizer, textiles (especially dyeing), steel, chemicals and
pharmaceuticals, jute goods, pulp and paper, and sugar. GOB owns the biggest
tannery and a big distillery.
3.37        Many donors have conducted studies or have environmental programs
planned or underway in Bangladesh. A USAID-supported environmental and
natural resources assessment was completed in 1990 by the World Resources
Institute. The Canadian International Development Agency and the Danish
International Development Agency have conducted surveys of environmental
legislation and institutions in Bangladesh. The United Nations' Economic and
Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific has completed a two-volume study of
the coastal environment. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has conducted an
environmental sector review and is supporting upgrading of Bangladesh's
Department of Environment (DOE), including staff training and testing
equipment for DOE's Dhaka lab, to enable it to formulate and implement
environmental guidelines for tanneries and textile mills. ADB is also
providing a line of credit which would fund industrial pollution abatement
equipment, advice on engineering processes, housekeeping, and waste recycling,
as well as training. ADB support would add 44 staff to DOE's early-1991
strength of 71.
3.38        The Dutch Government offered in 1987 to donate a central waste
treatment plant for the tanneries in Hazaribagh, Dhaka, which GOB refused
because it has plans to transfer these tanneries to an estate outside Dhaka.
However, UNIDO is reviewing a proposal for a similar plant which could be
converted to other uses following the tanneries' relocation.  UNDP sponsored a
seminar on 'The Environment and Development" attended by the chief executive
of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in June 1990 and has been
asked by its New York headquarters to conduct training and exposure seminars
on the environment for industrialists by the end of calendar 1990. The Ford
Foundation prepared two two-week courses in Environmental Management Training,
for 60 senior GOB officials (Deputy Secretaries and above). As of mid-1991
four major donor-supported environmental plans, strategy papers and studies
were underway.
3.39        During negotiations GOB agreed to establish environmental
guidelines and standards for industry, to perform subproject environmental
assessments where these are required and to monitor subproject compliance with
environmental regulations where these exist, and to monitor effluents from
three industrial subsectors selected by GOB (para. 6.1(c)). To assist GOB in



- 25 -
this regard, the proposed project includes US$500,000 equivalent to fund TA
assistance (Annex 9).
3.40        The project's technical assistance would help DOE formulate
screening criteria for industrial processes and subsectors and strengthen its
capability to monitor compliance with regulations. The sources of regulations
include legislative measures and parameters that would be determined under
technical assistance provided by the project and more extensively by ADB.
During negotiation GOB agreed to contract for technical assistance within six
months of project effectiveness (para. 6.1(d)). The TA to be provided under
the project (para. 3.39) would fund the services of an environmental engineer,
an ecologist, a chemical engineer and a resource economist.
3.41        In the transitional period while guidelines and standards are
being developed, it would not be feasible to demand compliance where no
guidelines and standards exist in GOB regulations or law. In such instances
it would not be advisable to subject subprojects to ad hoc procedures. To
attempt to do so could provide exceptionally attractive opportunities for
rent-seeking which could delay and subvert the orderly and consistent
development of environmental guidelines, standards and compliance monitoring
for industry in Bangladesh.
3.42        As a beginning in the application of environmental criteria to
industrial investments, each PCI would make a preliminary judgement concerning
the nature of the probable environmental impact of each proposed investment at
the same time it is analyzing its feasibility. This would be done using IDA's
internal classification system, consisting of three categories as listed
below, or alternative classification procedures acceptable to IDA:
Category A - Environmental analysis (EA) is normally required as the
subproject may have diverse and significant environmental impacts.
Category B - Limited EA is appropriate, as the subproject may have
specific environmental impacts.
Category C - Environmental impact assessmaent is normally unnecessary.
3.43        A summary of each proposed subproject, and an indication of the
category assigned it by the PCI, would be submitted to DOE by PCIs. The
format of this summary would be determined by each PCI unless DOE prescribes a
standardized format. During negotiations GOB agreed it would secure IDA
approval of any formats developed by DOE to obtain environmental assessment
information from subborrowers (para. 6.1(e)). If no guidelines and standards
were applicable to a subproject, further environmental assessment would not be
required. If there were applicable guidelines, DOE would have 30 days in
which to comment. If no comment were received within 30 days, it would be
assumed that the proposal is consistent with the guidelines. If there were
applicable standards, DOE would have 30 days in which to indicate whether the
proposed subproject met the standard. If DOE provides no indication within 30
days, it would be assumed that the proposal met the standard. Environmental
monitoring of subprojects will be DOE's responsibility where guidelines and



- 26 -
standards are applicable. The absence of guidelines is expected to be
temporary and exceptional in view DOE's mandate and its rapid empowerment with
technical assistance from ADB, bilateral donors, United Nations agencies,
private foundations and in coi.nection with this project (paras. 3.37-3.41).
H. Debt Recovery Assistance
3.44        GOB, under the FSC reforms, has substantially improved the credit
disciplinary environment by enacting a Loan Court law which requires all debt
recovery cases to be brought before special loan courts and to be decided
within less than six months (paras. 1.6, 1.21ff). It also requires that 50Z
of decreed amounts must be deposited prior to any appeals and that such
appeals be made within 30 days directly to the highest courts. Nineteen
special loan courts are awarding substantial numbers of decrees roughly within
the six-month schedule. Consequently, banks report that defaulters are more
eager to reach compromises as legal action has become a credible threat.
Nonetheless, it still takes about three years after decrees are awarded to
collect amounts owed through the legal system. As a condition of
effectiveness GOB will commence a study that would recommend additional
legislative amendments and/or changes in judicial administration to sharply
reduce elapsed time requirements from the date decrees are awarded to the date
collections under decrees can be legally affected (para. 6.2(a)). During
negotiations GOB agreed that it would complete, within six months of the date
of effectiveness, a study on legislative and/or administrative measures to
accelerate effective legal recource in debt recovery cases, and within one
year of effectiveness implement the recommendations of the study or submit
appropriate draft legislation to Parliament (para. 6.1(f)).



- 27 -
IV. THE CREDIT
A. Terms and Conditions
Credit Amount
4.1         The US$25.0 million proposed to be provided by IDA for private
investment through the pioject over a six-year period represents a material
source of funds for PCIs. Yet the project is the minimum feasible size for an
IDA operation in Bangladesh. Estimations of the size of the credit relative
to indicators of industrial investment presented in the discussion of the
supply of loanable funds (paras. 2.16ff) suggest that it is significant. In
the absence of better data and in view of unfortunate experience with term
credit in the past, a conservative approach is essential and a larger amount
is not justified. No comparison with pipelines or term lending targets is
possible because commercial banks in Bangladesh, for good business reasons,
usually do not have such pipelines or targets.
4.2         Lending Arrangements.  The proposed SDR 18.3 million (US$25.5
million equivalent) IDA credit would be used to provide a US$25 million credit
to PCIs on a first-come-first-served basis and US$500,000 equivalent in
technical assistance to the Department of the Environment for the development
of guidelines and standards for management of the environmental impact of
industrial processes. It would be made to GOB on standard IDA terms and
conditions with a 40-year maturity. Based on experience with similar
projects, project funds are expected to be fully committed by December 31,
1996 and fully disbursed by September 30, 1997, about five years after
effectiveness. This disbursement period is consistent with experience in
Bangladesh, which is that implementation is slow following the commitment of
funds by lenders. GOB would relend the proceeds of the credit component to
eligible PCIs (para. 3.2) on terms and conditions outlined below and specified
in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) with the respective PCI. A condition of
effectiveness would be the signing of a SLA, satisfactory to IDA, between GOB
and at least two eligible PCIs (para. 6.2(b)).
Credit Component
4.3         In addition to the conditions of eligibility noted in para. 3.2,
each PCI selected for participation would be required to:
(a)   enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with GOB on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.2);
(b)   adopt and adhere to a Term Lending Policy Statement and three-year
Business Plan for Term Lending satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.4);



- 28 -
(c)   establish and maintain procedures, satisfactory to IDA, to
appraise, supervise, and monitor IDA-financed subprojects
(paras. 4.22ff);
(d)   provide quarterly information and data on the project subloan
portfolio, including subloan administration, commitments,
disbursements, collections, and other information reasonably
requested by IDA (para. 4.33);
(e)   draft, adopt, and adhere to operational policies regarding subloan
appraisal, supervision and monitoring, and procurement (paras.
4.22ff, 4.30, 4.33); and
4.4         Each PCI's Term Lending Policy Statement should be reviewed at
least annually and confirmed by its Board of Directors. The Term Lending
Policy Statement would include:
(a)   prudential rules governing the proportion of term lending to total
advances and to deposits, and limits on single obligor exposure;
(b)   limits on lending to directors and firms in which directors have a
material interest;
(c)   loan recovery policies;
(d)   policies on provisions in excess of statutory requirements;
(e)   interest rate or pricing policies;
(f)   audit requirements for large borrowers;
(g)   policies governing mobilization of term resources;
(h)   contents of term loan agreements;
(i)   procurement policies to be followed by borrowers;
(j)   guidelines on marketing strategy, sectoral diversification or
specialization; and
(k)   policies and procedures on projects that may adversely affect the
environment.
Each three-year business plan should include estin.ates of commitments and
disbursements and of expected term lending income and expense.
4.5         Onlending.  To ensure equitable PCI access to funds, it was agreed
during negotiations that 20Z of the proceeds of the IDA credit would be
allotted to each PCI during the first year following effectiveness,
thereafter, PCIs' access to these funds would be on a first come, first served
basis, although no PCI would be allowed to commit more than 5OZ of the total



- 29 -
credit amount during the first two years of effectiveness. After this period
there would be no limitation to use of uncommitted project funds
(para. 6.1(g)).
4.6         PCIs reluctant to participate in the project without a definite
credit allocation following the first project year would be able to obtain up
to 10% of the total credit amount (i.e., US$2.5 million equivalent) upon
payment of a 0.25Z p.a. commitment fee to BB. Subloan commitments by a PCI
would reduce its allocated balance accordingly. It could immediately request
an additional amount equivalent to these newly committed funds to restore its
allocated balance for the remaining period of the year for which a commitment
fee had been paid, to the extent sufficient unallocated funds remain in the
Credit and, for the first two years, subject to the 5O0 individual PCI limit.
Each allocation through the project closing date, to the extent allocable
funds remain, would be renewable for an additional year upon payment of a
0.35Z commitment fee and for each subsequent year on payment of a 0.5Z p.a.
commitment fee. In the event two or more banks' allocations expired on the
same day and insufficient funds remained to satisfy their renewal requests,
funds would be allocated equally to each. Unallocated proceeds of the credit
would remain accessible to all PCIs free of commitment charge.
4.7         Choice of currency in which subloans are denominated will depend
upon the choices of subborrowers and PCIs in negotiation with each other.
Subborrowers could obtain subloans denominated in Taka and/or US dollars.
Either type of subloan could be blended with other sources of finance at the
discretion of PCIs and their clients.
4.8         Interest rates.  During negotiations GOB agreed that (a) interest
rates on dollar loans to PCIs would be fixed, equal to six-month Eurodollar
LIBOR at the time of subloan disbursement plus 2.0%, and (b) it would not
establish interest rate controls on foreign currency loans issued in
Bangladesh (paras. 6.1(h)), and hence US dollar subloan interest rates would
be determined by negotiations between PCIs and their clients.
4.9         For Taka funds, the PCIs would be charged market-oriented rates,
which would ensure that funds are available on a commercially feasible basis.
A formula would be used to fix a rate that responds directly to bankers'
preference for average cost pricing (para. 4.17), while also moving toward
marginal cost pricing through attention to the weighted average interest cost
of deposits that could prudently be made available for term lending. The
latter is a crude and partial approach to marginal cost, but it does focus on
deposits that could be devoted to term lending.
4.10        The precise rate charged to the PCIs for fixed rate Taka funds
would be calculated by IDA in consultation with BB and GOB. Thus, during
negotiations GOB agreed that, a three-step process would be employed using
data on "private banks'' deposit statistics and interest cost of funds as
reported by BB for periods ending June 30 and December 31 each year, or more
frequent'y as agreed by IDA, BB and the PCIs during project implementation
with the onlending rate to PCIs reviewed semi-annually and, if appropriate,
adjusted by IDA in consultation with BB to relate to market conditions



30 -
(para. 6.1(i)). The first step would calculate the weighted average interest
cost of deposits: demand deposits, savings deposits, deposits withdrawable at
notice (i.e., savings account balances exceeding Tk. 10,000, which can be
withdrawn on 10 days notice, but which in practice may be available on
demand), and termn deposits. The second step would calculate the weighted
average interest cost of deposits available for term lending, defined to
include core demand deposits (i.e., demand deposits that could safely be
loaned long because they would be unlikely to be withdrawn), core savings
deposits, core deposits withdrawable at notice, and all term deposits.
4.11        The third step would blend these weighted averages to yield a
commercially attractive rate. The blend proposed initially is to accord a 50%
weight to the weighted average interest cost of deposits available for term
lending and 502 to the weighted average interest cost of deposits, as shown in
Annex 7. This produces a rate of 11.1X using March 31, 1991 data. Assuming
favorable economic conditions that encourage bankers to engage in gapping, the
blend could be altered to accord grester weight to deposits available for term
lending. In addition, the proportion of demand and savings deposits regarded
as core deposits might increase.
4.12        Credit proceeds used to support variable rate Taka subloans would
be provided to the PCIs at a variable rate, subject to semi-annual adjustment,
12 less than the rate offered concurrently on funds used to support fixed-rate
subloans, or at the weighted average interest cost of funds, whichever is
greater (para. 4.11). Commercial bank loan contr&cts in Bangladesh
traditionally are worded as variable rate contracts, giving the lender the
right to alter rates from time to time. However, rates are changed only
infrequently in practice. Variable rate subloans would in fact have to
reprice periodically, however. This would require an indication of this fact
in the subloan contract between banker and client, a statement of the
frequency and dates of repricing, identification of the index upon which
repricing will be based, e.g., the cost of proceeds of the IDA Credit, and the
formula linking the index and the subloan rate. PCIs would provide data to
IDA from time to time verifying that variable rate subloans are being repriced
in accordance with subloan agreements containing these stipulations.
4.13        In accord with the interest rate policies established under GOB's
financial reform program, the Taka subloan interest rate would be determined
by each PCI within the term lending rate band specified by BB for medium and
large scale industry, including any project funds loaned to firms classified
as small scale. This band is fixed by procedures and conditions agreed under
FSC, with reference to a 'shadow' or reference rate which is the centerpoint
of the band (paras. 1.25-1.26).  For the six months beginning in July 1991
this band was 12% to 172 and in December 1991 it was lowered to 11Z to 162
(Annex 8). (The estimated inflation rate for 1991 is 8% and for the next
several years is not expected to exceed an average of 10Z.)
4.14        Existing regulations do not fully encourage term lending in Taka.
The yield curve is too flat and as a consequence most term lending has a final
maturity of three years or less. To address this situation it was agreed
during negotiations that GOB would widen the domestic term lending rate band



-3: -
for medium and large scale industry, at least over a year for a period of five
years (para. 6.1(j)). As a first step In this process, it was agreed that as
a condition of credit effectiveness GOB would widen the domestic currency term
lending rate band for medium and large scale industry (maintaining the
relevant shadow market rate as the midpoint of the band), by one percentage
point at the ceiling and one percentage point at the floor (para. 6.2(c)).
These pricing arrangements represent further implementations of the FSC
reforms and establish an appropriate mechanism for determining subloan
interest rates.
4.15        GOB has stated its intention to abandon bands eventually in favor
of a wholly liberalized market. Accordingly, as a condition of effectiveness
GOB would permit bankers to determine their interest rates withia a band in
negotiation with their clients, enabling bankers to charge different rates
within the bank for loans for different borrowers, for different purposes and
to different industrial subsectors according to criteria specified by each
bank and communicated to BB for approval (para. 6.2(d)). At the end of 1991
such approval was freely given. However, some bankers were reportedly taking
a more competitive stance by negotiating other fees with clients, such as
those that would apply to normal commercial transactions and relationships,
including letters of credit, transfers and ledger fees. Some bankers
reportedly do not adhere to their quoted rates, spontaneously promoting
liberalization.
4.16        The rationale for the pricing structure applied to project funds
is that these funds should be priced to encourage banks to use them to support
long-term lending, permitting banks to offer new services. One is US dollar
loans, which should increase the pool oE loanable funds for clients in a
position to service US dollar debt. Interest rates on dollar subloans are
expected to be lower than on Taka subloans, giving subborrowers an opportunity
to attempt to reduce costs by accepting foreign exchange risk. Another new
service that would be promoted is variable rate term loans.
4.17        Many bankers in Bangladesh use two major considerations to price
loans. One. their average cost of funds, tends to be far below the fixed
deposit rate, and the other is the context of client relationships. Average
cost pricing does not yet pose a danger for banks in Bangladesh because of the
size of their spreads, the relatively narrow range of instruments used to
obtain funds, and a developing interbank market (a source of marginal funds)
characterized by rates several hundred basis points below the cost of fixed
deposits (another source of marginal funds). Second, it is also reasonable
for bankers to focus their pricing strategies on relationships first and on
product lines second, as many commercial clients tend to take this view in
their search for banking services in a competitive market. Bankers may
therefore decide to price project subloans at relatively thin margins over
their cost of project funds within the context of a relationship with a valued
or potentially attractive customer.
4.18        This approach to pricing is not thought to expose the PCIs to much
incremental risk because most subloans are expected to assist customers
already known to the PCIs.  Subloans are also more likely to finance



- 32 
modification and expansion than entirely new facilities or ventures. But, the
scope for creative expansion of the market should increase over the project's
life as liberalization and expansion of financial marke'.s continues. In view
of this prospect, and to provide an indication of the merginal cost of term
funds. BB will calculate the weighted average cost to nprivate banks" (a BB
statistical category that includes the commerciil bank PCIs) of term deposits
having original maturities of 90 days or more. This calculation will be made
at least semi-annually.
4.19        Currency risk would be carried by GOB on Taka subloans.  The
project would provide GOB with resources to help cover this risk by pricing
Taka funds to PCIs at market-oriented rates (paras. 4.9ff). Dollar funds
would be supplied to PCIs unider the project at six-month Eurodollar LIBOR plus
2.07 at the time of disbursement. (In late 1991 the six-month Eurodollar
LIBOR rate was about 4.5Z to 5.0Z.) In an ideal free market the spread
between interest rates on financial instruments denominated in foreign
exchange and in local currency, over the long run, should approximate the cost
of foreign exchange risk. With continuing financial reforms in Bangladesh,
GOB's foreign exchange risk under the project should diminish and become
negligible.
4.20        US dollar subloans would be repaid by subborrowers in dollars
which could be obtained in the secondary exchange market. Hence, subborrowers
would carry the foreign exchange risk. Taka subborrowers typically have
little capacity to accommodate or manage foreign exchange risk; to ask them to
accept this risk would pose pricing problems that would gravely impede the use
of project funds or result in unworkable subloans.   Subborrowers who
voluntarily select and PCIs that voluntarily make dollar subloans to such
subborrowers would have an incentive to ensure that the currency risk could be
managed. Sub-borrowers who export could diminish their dollar exchange risk
by relating it to their export revenues.
4.21        Amortization.  The PCIs would amortize their US dollar and Taka
loans from GOB on a back-to-back basis with a lag of up to six months between
scheduled subloan payments and scheduled loan payments, subject to a 15-year
maximum maturity. Subloan maturities would be determined by each PCI in
negotiation with clients but would not be shorter than three years. Loan
payments would be due semiannually. Prepayments in Taka or dollar loans could
be made at any time without penalty.
4.22        Subloan Eligibility and Size.  Project funds would be utilized by
private enterprises or mixed enterprises in which private shareholders have
majority ownership, for investments in plant and equipment and for incremental
permanent working capital. The maximum subloan size (and single borrower
exposure) for each PCI would be the smaller of: (a) 25Z of its capital,
defined as paid-in capital and reserves, excluding depreciation and general
and specific provijions for bad and doubtful debts; or (b) Tk. 80 million or
the US dollar equivalent at the time of subloan commitment. Twenty-five
percent of capital for the three domestic deposit-taking PCIs at the end of
1990 ranged from Tk. 55 million to Tk. 80 million. Capital is expected to



- 33 -
grow while the Tk. 80 million would remain fixed for the life of the project.
(Tk. 80 million is equivalent to about 8 of the amount of the Credit.)
4.23        Subloan Review.  Each PCI's initial two subprojects would be
submitted to IDA for approval, and IDA could request that subsequent
subprojects proposed by any or all PCIs, or proposals above a certain size,
also be submitted for approval. IDA would receive for review the subproject
summaries for all subloans and these would include data outlining the size and
purpose of the subloan and subproject and justifyir.g the credit decision. All
subloan documents would be subject to inspection by IDA. Criteria applied by
IDA in its review of subproject proposals and documents will include the
traditional feasibility study concerns about markets and financial
projections, but with special attention to the identification and management
of risks specific to the subproject.
4.24        In accordance with provisions in the SLA, IDA will review and
inspect subloan approval reports to ensure that the staff of each PCI
responsible for term lending are able to: (a) locate sources of industry and
marketing data applicable to Bangladesh and on export markets; (b) derive
sources and uses of funds from actual and projected balance sheets and income
statements; (c) construct cash flow statements for subprojects based on
technical specifications and sales projections; (d) measure subprojects,
financial viability, including calculating internal rates of return and
adjustment for inflation; (e) phase subloan maturities and grace periods
consonant with the subborrower's cash flows; (f) identify and rank subloan
risks, defined as things likely tc go wrong that would diminish the ability to
service debt (para. 4.25); (g) use alternative scenarios to ascertain tlh
probable impact of subloan risks; and (h) classify subprojects' potential
environmental impact (paras. 3.42tf and Annex 9).
4.25        All subloan applicatiors should include risk analysis.  The things
most likely to go wrong should be identified and defenses against them
incorporated into subloan terms and conditions. Calculations of subproject
and subborrower performance and viability in the absence of tariff protection
should be performed in all cases in which tariff protection is material. Risk
analysis is the primary defense against providing too much credit in relation
to clients' own equity, which has been the hallmark and weak point in donor-
supported credit projects implemented by state-owned institutions using
fornula lending.
4.26        Each subproject appraisal report would contain a summary of the
PCI's relationship with the subborrower, including other loans, facilities,
guarantees and deposits maintained, and indications of repayment performance
on present and past loans.  Under the "one obligor concept' the relationships
with related clients would also be described and summarized in the same
detail. DOSRI (directors, officers, shareholders and related insiders)
interests would also be fully disclosed so that conflicts of interest could be
noted (paras. 5.7ff).
4.27        Environmental TA.  US$500,000 equivalent would be made available
to GOB's Department of Environment (paras. 3.39ff) to:



34 -
(a)   develop industrial environmental standards and guidelines;
(b)   document best practice and devise appropriate guidelines for
economic resource use and waste reduction, process technologies,
hazardous material handling, and steps to abate steady state and
transient pollution discharges;
(c)   study the feasibility of introducing an industrial waste permit
system to monitor compliance with the standards and guidelines;
and
(d)   procure equipment to support the development of guidelines and
standards, and to monitor industrial pollution.
Items (a), (b) and (c) above would be undertaken by consultants supported by a
US$400,000 equivalent portion of the Credit, while item (d) would be allocated
US$100,000 equivalent (Annex 9).  (Further IDA support for environmental
control in Bangladesh is recommended in an environmental strategy review which
is expected to be discussed with GOB in FY92.)
4.28        These funds would be made available primarily for the application
of environmental guidelines and standards for three manufacturing industrial
subsectors to be selected by GOB for development and experimental application
of environmental standards (para. 3.39). This part of the TA would complement
the Asian Development Bank's program to enhance the institutional capabilities
of the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF), as well as their proposed
project to provide lines of credit to enterprises seeking to implement
pollution abatement programs.
4.29        Any TA funds made available by IDA under the project that are not
needed, because grant funds have been obtained from other donors for this
purpose, will be canceled.
B. Administration
4.30        Procurement.  No international competitive bidding procurement is
envisaged in this operation, as the maximum subloan will approximate US$2
million equivalent. Goods, works, and services financed with project funds
would be procured in accordance with established commercial practices
acceptable to the Bank. Selection of consultants to carry out TA activities
would be made by the Department of Environment in accordance with IDA
guidelines, and specialized equipment purchased under the TA component for the
Department of Environment would be procured through international shopping.
If cofinancing is used in lieu of IDA funds for TA, the guidelines of the
funding agency would be followed provided these are satisfactory to IDA.
4.31        Disbursement.  IDA would disburse against 10OZ of subloans and
100l of the costs of environmental consultants and goods purchased to
facilitate the drafting, adoption, application and enforcement of



- 35 -
environmental guidelines and standards. Reimbursements would be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) for subprojects. PCIs and DOE would
submit SOEs through BB, through which disbursements would be made. PCIs would
retain documentation for withdrawals under SOEs for inspection by IDA.
Requests for IDA disbursement would be fully documented for civil works and
equipment contracts above US$100,000 equivalent and for all consultents'
services and training costs. IDA would reimburse expenditures incurred up to
120 days prior to IDA's receipt of subloan application and information
required. To facilitate disbursement of project funds, subloan commitments
not drawn down within 24 months would be reviewed by IDA and the PCIs to
determine their appropriate disposition. Based upon country/sectoral
disbursement profiles, the project will close on September 30. 1997, requiring
that no new subproject commitments be made after December 31, 1996.
4.32        A Special Account procedure, involving an advance from the Credit,
is not appropriate in the case of this Credit; subloan disbursements will be
on a reimbursement basis. PCIs have adequate funds in the normal course of
business to provide bridge finance and disbursements for medium and long-term
approved subloans. Reimbursement on account of subloans disbursed by PCIs was
accepted at negotiations as a satisfactory arrangement for this operation.
4.33        Reporting, Accounts and Auditing.  PCI accounts would be audited
at l.;ast annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The PCIs would
verify the status of the project-supported assets by on-site inspection at
least quarterly. PCI long form audit reports shall be submitted to IDA by the
PCIs within four months. Subloan portfolio management reporting in a format
acceptable to IDA should be submitted to IDA within 30 days of the end of each
quarter. Additionally, within 30 days of the end of each quarter, the PCIs
would submit quarterly progress reports covering their operations under the
credit. These would include calculation of the value of the subloar, portfolio
(para. 3.28) as outlined in Annex 5, and the extent of gapping of resources
and loans having original maturities of greater than one year as outlined in
Annex 6.



- 36 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1         The project is intended to develop PCIs' term lending
capabilities, enhancing their capability to support productive private
investment. Enhanced private industrial investment would be a substantial
indirect benefit of the project. Successful term loans should generate
economic growth and jobs. PCIs would offer term financing alternatives in
competition with the NCBs, the state-owned DFIs and other private lenders; and
the PCIs are probably the best placed of all financial institutions to make
good term loans. Active participation in term financing by PCIs and similar
institutions would reduce dependence on inefficient, politicized, somewhat
noncommercially oriented state-owned institutions that have traditionally
supplied most of this type of credit.
5.2         The project builds upon industrial and financial sector reforms
under ISC, FSC, and the proposed ISC II, which should enhance project impact.
At the same time, the project should further these reforn-s by its emphasis on
rational pricing of credit and private sector investment. The project's
emphasis on rational fixed and variable rate pricing of funds should have
several additional positive effects: It should discourage opportunistic
behavior among lenders, subborrowers and GOB officials. It should promote the
development of the market for term funds and encourage financial deepening.
By introducing US dollar lending by banks in Bangladesh, it provides an
additional financing vehicle which, if successful, offers the prospect of
opening a new market for such lending.
B. Risks
5.3         The major risk facing a credit project is that PCIs will lose
money on subloans. This risk could result from inexperience in term lending,
the generally poor formal credit discipline in Bangladesh, competitive
pressures, failures in client selection and insider abuse.
5.4         Inexperience.  Some PCIs could make bad loans because of relative
inexperience in term lendi-g and the added risk inherent in it. This risk is
being managed by attempts to arrange technical consultations for credit
decision-makers and by keeping sublcan sizes relatively small (para. 4.22).
However, PCI responses to actual losses will probably be the most effective
source of improvement. PCIs are not likely to seek many green field
subprojects, but to concentrate on lending for balancing, modernization,
rehabilitation, and expansion (BMRE), where risks are likely to be lower and
exposure smaller (para. 4.18). PCIs are expected to be able to make profits
from the use of IDA funds: the project will be a failure if they incur net
losses.



- 37 -
5.5         Hostile Environment.  Although the hostile debt recovery
environment is being addressed under the FSC through greater transparency in
accounting, better BB supervision, improved debt recovery legislation and new
debt recovery courts (para. 3.44), there is a risk of weak collections because
of the tradition of poor financial discipline in Bangladesh, the weak legal
system, and difficulty in realizing collateral. This risk is being managed
through careful selection of PCIs and subborrowers. PCIs are not dominated by
GOB, and they are relatively well capitalized and have good collection
records.
5.6         Competitive Pressures.  The possibility that state-owned lenders
could continue to underbid PCIs (primarily by soft collection policies rather
than by interest rate competition) is being addressed through accounting and
capitalization reforms under the FSC and through UNDP-financed TA to BSB and
BSRS, which should make state-owned banks more cost conscious. The major
manifestation of this risk is that competitors could offer larger loans for a
proposed investment than the PCIs could pruder.tly do. Formula lending, such
as 80Z debt and 202 equity, pervades official credit institutions in
Bangladesh. The result is debt service burdens that are not determined with
reference to risk facing the subborrower, which virtually ensures default.
PCIs currently respond to competitive pressure by attempting to provide
superior overall services to their clients, which is the best response.
5.7         Client Selection and Insider Abuse.  PCIs have incentives to
selec.: their subborrowers carefully, as this is critical to their
profitability and survival. Subborrowers are expected to consist largely of
their present clients (para. 4.18), and a significant proportion of the credit
can be expected to fund activities in which their own directors, officers,
shareholdars, and related insiders (DOSRI) have interests. Lending to a
limited number of trusted clients is a rational response to the hostile debt
recovery situation in Bangladesh. Sanctions are extremely difficult to apply
to defaulters who are not close at hand. Outsider risk poses a much greater
risk in Bangladesh than insider abuse.
5.8         The risk of abuse in DOSRI transactions will be minimized through
BB's strengthened supervision and inspection capabilities under FSAC.
Improved debt recovery legislation and institutions could also reduce
dependence on insiders. IDA supervision, disclosure requirements (para. 4.26)
and the relatively small amount of the proposed credit and of subloans also
respond to this risk (paras. 4.1, 4.22). The Bank Company Act 1991 restricts
banks' lending limits: no single obligor may receive loans larger than 30Z of
a bank's capital, and no director of a bank or a firm or group of firms in
which a director has an interest will be permitted to account for more than
10? of a bank's outstanding loans.
5.9         Other Risks.  Project funds will not disburse if they are not
priced properly or if PCI spreads narrow or disappear. This is being
addressed through continued FSC supervision of interest rate liberalization, a
provision that GOB periodically widen the band applicable to project lending,
IDA's commitment to supplying Credit proceeds to PCIs at market-oriented rates
(para. 4.9), and scope for prepayment of dollar subloans by obtaining dollar



- 38 -
funds for Taka in the secondary exchange market. In spite of these measures
the project may experience slow commitment and disbursement at the outset as a
result of the slowdown in industrial investment experienced in 1991 and early
1992. When conditions improve the project should play a leading role as one
of the few sources of funds that permit bankers to match term assets and
liabilities.
5.10        Environmental risk arises from a lack of clear-cut legislation,
inadequate monitoring, and rent-seeking behavior by GOB officials and
businessmen. This risk is being addressed through TA to formulate and
implement subsectoral environmental guidelines (paras. 4.27ff and Annex 9).
C. Other Concerns
5.11        Environmental aspects of subprojects are the subject of technical
assistance (Annex 9). The pro,ect also attempts to make a much more
substantial impact on environmental control, beyond the relatively modest
number and size of subprojects, by focusing environmental TA on the
application of guidelines and standards to three industrial subsectors.
5.12        Private sector development is promoted by the requirement that
subloans are to be made entirely to private firms for productive purposes
(para. 4.22). The project is intended to provide longer term funds than would
otherwise be available to these borrowers for this purpose, and to offer US
dollar loans for those in a position to service them, stimulating investment.
5.13        Poverty alleviation and women in development concerns are not
directly addressed by this project.



39 
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1         During negotiations, GOB agreed that it would:
(a)   obtain an undertaking from BB to provide to IDA certification of
compliance with project conditions related to the Bank Company Act
1991 and BCD Circular 34 in a timely manner when requested to do
so by banks that are in compliance with such conditions and which
wish to participate in the project (para. 3.4);
(b)   ensure that a PCI's exposure to a subborrower under the project
would equal at least 1102 of the subloan amount outstanding
(para. 3.34);
(c)   establish environmental guidelines and standards for industry, to
perform subproject environmental assessments where these are
required and to monitor subproject compliance with environmental
regulations where these exist, and to monitor effluents from three
industrial subsectors selected by GOB (para. 3.39ff);
(d)   contract for technical assistance within six months of project
effectiveness (para. 3.40);
(e)   secure IDA approval of any formats developed by DOE to obtain
environmental assessment information from subborrowers
(para. 3.43);
(f)   complete, within six months of the date of project effectiveness,
a study on legislative and/or administrative measures to
accelerate effective legal recource in debt recovery cases, and
within one year of effectiveness implement the recommendations of
the study or submit appropriate draft legislation to Parliament
(para. 3.44);
(g)   allocate 20% of the proceeds of the IDA credit to each PCI during
the first year following effectiveness, thereafter PCIs' access to
these funds would be on a first come, first served basis, although
no PCI would be allowed to commit more than 502 of the total
credit amount during the first two years of effectiveness. After
this period there would be no limitation to use of uncommitted
project funds (para. 4.5);
(h)   fix interest rates on dollar loans to PCIs equal to six-month
Eurodollar LIBOR at the time of subloan disbursement plus 2.0,
and would not establish interest rate controls on foreign currency
loans issued in Bangladesh (para. 4.8);
(i)   implement a Taka subloan pricing formula to be used by PCIs during
project implementation with the onlending rates to be reviewed



- 40 -
semi annually and if appropriate adjusted by IDA in consultation
with BB to relate to market condition (para. 4.10ff); and
(j)   widen the domestic among term lending rate band for medium and
large scale industry, at least over a year for a period of five
years (para. 4.14).
6.2         The following conditions should be met by GOB prior to credit
effectiveness:
(a)   commencement of a study that would recommend additional
legislative amendments and/or changes in judicial administration
to sharply reduce elapsed time requirements from the date decrees
are awarded to the date collections under decrees can be legally
affected (para. 3.44);
(b)   signing of subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to IDA,
between GOB and at least two eligible PCIs (para. 4.2);
(c)   widen the domestic currency term lending rate band for medium and
large scale industry, maintaining the relevant shadow market rate
as the midpoint of the band prior to effectiveness and at least
once each year subsequently through 1997. IDA expects that the
band will be widened before effectiveness by one percentage point
at the ceiling and one percentage point at the floor (para. 4.14);
and
(d)   permit bankers to charge different industrial term lending rates
to different clients for otherwise similar transactions, to
different industry subsectors, and for different maturities
(para. 4.15);
6.3         With these agreements, the proposed Project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Development Credit of SDR 18.3 million (US$25.5 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to the People's
Republic of Bangladesh.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Arab Bangladesh Bank Limited
Structure, Operations and Policies
Structure and Operations
1.1         Arab Bangladesh Bank Limited (ABB) was incorporated as a privately
owned commercial bank in 1981 under the Companies Act of 1913 as a joint
venture between Dubai Bank Limited and local sponsors, with a paid-up capital
of Tk. 80 million. Paid-up capital was increased to Tk. 85 million in 1983,
to Tk. 100 million in 1984 and to Tk. 150 million through a rights issue in
1991.  Five percent of share capital was subscribed by the Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) which is represented by a director on the board. In 1987 the
controlling share in Dubai Bank was bought by the Union Bank of the Middle
East, and Dubai Bank's Tk. 60 million shareholding in ABB was sold to local
investors. ABB's ownership is currently as follows:
Z            Tk. (Mil)
Sponsor Directors (4)                 80.OZ            120.0
GOB                                    5.OZ              7.5
General Public                        15.OZ             22.5
TOTAL                                100.0Z            150.0
1.2         Operations commenced with six branches in 1982.  The number of
branches now exceeds 30. ABB follows a conservative policy regarding the
expansion of its bran.n network; growth appears to be steady and well
regulated.
1.3         The Bank is headed by a President and Managing Director (MD) who
is the Chief Executive Officer. The current MD is a graduate economist with
31 years banking experience and has been with ABB for about eight years. He
began his career and worked with the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
for about 15 years and has also spent about 8 years in Janata Bank. The MD is
responsible for operations; and 'he Board of Directors, composed of six
directors, a Vice Chairman and a Chairman, for policy direction. The current
Chairman is an industrialist. The Vice Chairman is a director of the BEXIMCO
group. Both are sponsoring directors of the Bank. The Board is also involved
in loan approval, primarily via its Executive Committee (EC), composed of the
Chairman, MD and five other directors. There is also a Credit Committee (CC)



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
at Head Office, composed of the MD, two DMDs/EVPs and the Chief of the Credit
Division. The CC meets daily and the Board twice a month.
1.4         Loan approval authority is delegated to officers who are either
regional heads or branch managers. Approval authority is defined by limits
for both funded and non-funded facilities and also by an absolute cumulative
limit that cannot be exceeded at any given time. Loan approval by individual
officers is subject to written approval by the MD. These limits are
promulgated and revised via "Credit Instruction Circulars.' The circular in
force at appraisal allowed a maximum delegation of Tk. 2.0 million. Limits
can be cancelled for particular officers at the discretion of the MD. Credit
decisions are achieved quickly (within 48 hours for trade financing) with a
maximum of fifteen days from receipt by the branch.
1.5         ABB's operational structure includes two Executive Vice Presidents
(EVPs) (or Deputy Managing Directors - DMDs' who control five functional
divisions (See Attachment 1, page 1 of 9). The Accounting and Financial
Control Division and the International Division report to one DMD. The
Accounting and Financial Control Division is responsible for consolidation and
central accounting, budget preparation and financial control, computerization,
branch reconciliation, the consolidation, preparation and filing of statements
and returns and liaison with external auditors. The International Division
primarily finances trade (imports and exports) and maintains operating
relationships with foreign correspondents.
1.6         The Credit, Administration and Marketing Divisions report to the
other DMD/EVP. The Credit Division is responsible for credit management
including appraisal, supervision, administration and recovery, including legal
action against defaulters. The Credit Division is headed by a Senior Vice
President (SVP), and consists of portfolio and account managers responsible
for geographical regions; each desk being divided into credit services and
credit administration. Credit services includes loan application processing,
credit appraisal and structuring, credit administration, collateral-related
documentation, etc.
1.7         The branch is the primary point of contact between the Bank and
its clients. Branch managers have virtually no fund-based credit approval
powers, but they can approve letters of credit, which facilitates competition
with foreign banks. Branch managers initiate credit proposale and thereafter
liaise between their customer and Head Office in Dhaka.
1.8         Inter-departmental staff transfers occur every two to four years.
An organizational chart of the Credit Division is found in Attachment 1 (Page
2 of 9). A list of officers posted to the Credit Division, with brief details
of qualifications and expertise are in Attachment 1 (Page 3 of 9).



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
1.9         The AdministraLion Division performs personnel and training
functions. It is also responsible for central procurement, supplies and
services, and for public relations.
1.10        The Marketing Division is involved in branch network planning and
expansion, hiring premises, raising new deposits, market/competitor
intelligence and general banking services. The Branches Control or Inspection
Division reports directly to the MD; at almost all the other private domestic
banks, this function reports to a lower level. This division is divided into
basically three functional units. One deals with the internal audit and
inspection of branches, the second with Bangladesh Bank (BB) inspections and
the third with monitoring the rectification of anomalies and discrepancies
pointed out during inspections.
1.11        The advances portfolio is largely short-term, dominated by trade
and working capital financing, as summarized in Attachment 1 (Page 7 of 9).
Yet, term lending accounts for 15-20? of the total portfolio. The housing
subsector, including construction of blocks of commercial residential flats in
addition to private housing, is the largest single component of the term
financing portfolio, constituting 14.2? in 1987, 32.8Z in 1988, and increasing
again in 1989. The Bank's project loan portfolio was 7Z of the total Credit
portfolio in 1989.
1.12        The Bank's deposit mix does not appear to be rigidly managed, or
rather, given the short-term nature of their business, longer term deposits do
not appear to be actively discouraged, as is the policy of all other domestic
private commercial banks.
Policies
1.13        ABB has produced a policy statement regarding its possible
participation in the proiect.
1.14        ABB was the only private commercial bank the appraisal mission
encountered that had a formal interest suspension policy. Interest is
suspended and taken to an interest reserve account, and not credited to income
for all loans in arrears by 90 days or more.
1.15        Provisions for classified advances stood at Tk. 81.6 million and
interest not credited to income at Tk. 59.2 million as on 31 December 1990.
Provisions for classified loans and suspended interest as at December 31, 1989
were made in accordance with Bangladesh Bank's guidelines under BCD Circular
34, and stood at Tk. 66.6 million. The Bank follows BB guidelines regarding
loan classification and provisions.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
1.16        Branch managers are expected to file exception reports and past
due reports monthly. Progress is then monitored by Head Office weekly and
supplemented with random spot checks by audit teams composed of 2 or 3 Audit
Division officers. Action taken by branch managers on delinquent accounts
normally depends on the relationship with the client and takes the form of
written reminders or personal visits by the branch manager. Branch managers'
performance is reviewed with them every month in a meeting. Loan recovery by
legal action is used as a last resort.
1.17        ABB displayed other prudent practices not used by some other
banks; annual budgets for operational targets, income and expenditure are
monitored for variances. Budget and performance are formally put to the
Board. Administrative expenses appear to be particularly stringently
monitored. The Bank also has printed, detailed credit manuals and procedures
(Credit Policy Guide and Credit Operations Guides). These are regularly
updated and circulated to all branches.
1.18        ABB adopts a formal strategy and activities statement each year.
It was the only bank encountered by the mission that made regular attempts to
compare its performance with that of its competitors.
1.19        The Bank also is relatively highly computerized: all branches are
on-line to a Head Office main-frame. Accounting is efficiently centralized.
The use of personal computers appears extensive, and the internal management
information system relatively 30phisticated. Each branch has its own telex.
1.20        No credit portfolio exposure limits had been defined at the time
of appraisal and single sector exposure can be as high as 30 - 40Z of total
advances. Similarly, credit exposure to individual obligors was not subject
to control as a matter of policy, and was as high as 101.5Z of capital in 1987
(Attachment 1, Page 8 of 9). Clearly the Bank would be strengthened by
adopting formal policy in regard to sector and single obligor exposure. In
its new policy statement this type of exposure has been notionally limited to
252 of the Bank's equity, but is flexible. Currently a single default could
seriously jeopardize the Bank's capital. As a matter of policy the Bank will
restrict its term portfolio to 25Z of total advances. Individual projects in
which the Bank has an exposure equal to Tk. 35.0 million or more will be
required to furnish audited financial statements, which is a BB regulation.
ABB will lend term funds to projects subject to its satisfaction of their
commercial, technical and financial viability.
1.21        ABB does not yet have procedures regarding the procurement of
goods and services funded by its loans.
1.22        The Bank has stated that it will not lend to projects which do not
meet minimum environmental protection requirements.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
Term Finance Capability
1.23        There is no specific term lending function within the Credit
Division. But with the exception of engineering, the basic expertise for it
appears to exist but is limited. Term finance appraisals/proposals put to the
EC are rudimentary. This type of financing appears to be undertaken only at
the behest of clients with established creditworthiness and a good track
record. Commercial considerations and payback periods appear to play a large
role in decision making. A more comprehensive analysis of management
capability, market conditions and applicable technologies would be helpful, as
would more sophisticated financial analysis. The organization chart of the
Credit Division, together with key personnel identified by the Bank for the
possible formation of a formal term finance capability at Head Office is in
Attachments 1 (Page 2 of 9 and Page 3 of 9 respectively).
1.24        The Credit Division is structured geographically: identical
functional capabilities are available to each region. Branch managers serve
as conduits for information and perform an essentially marketing function,
while appraisal and analysis reside with the Credit Division. Given core
Credit Division capability, the Bank could develop an effective term. finance
function at its Head Office. ABB would be willing to create a special
depa-tment and train existing staff within its Credit Division to appraise
term proposals. Supervision and monitoring would be delegated to the Credit
Administration Division, where staff would also undergo training. In addition
ABB has identified a need to create a cell responsible for gathering and
maintaining market and economic intelligence.
Financial Performance
1.25        Capital as a percentage of deposits declined to 3.9? with
provisioning in 1989 and rose to 5.8? on provisional 1990 data, based on end
of period (EOP) data. (BB calculates this ratio using EOP capital but mid-
year deposits). Similarly, equity to average assets declined to 2.62 in 1989
and recovered to 3.8Z in 1990 (provisionally). Classified Advances in 1990
stood at Tk. 268.1 million, of which Tk. 140.5 million were substandard,
Tk. 120.2 were doubtful and Tk. 7.4 million bad. ABB was the first local
private bank to implement BB BCD Circular 34. Loan loss provision expense to
average total advances sharply increased in 1989 and amounted to 2.7Z in 1990,
which includes the blanket pro-i4-!' of 12 net total advances at the end of
the financial period. This increase in provisions was reflected in a sharp
decline in profitability. Return on average assets was 0.8Z in 1985 and 1986,
0.6Z in 1987, 0.4? in 1988 and fell to 0.2? in 1989. Similarly return on
equity at 23.8Z in 1986 and at 14.8Z in 1988, declined sharply to 6.4Z in
1989. Consequently, the Bank was unable to declare a dividend. ABB remains
undercapitalized by internationally acceptable standards. It floated a rights



- 46 
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
issue that increased its paid-up capital by 50? (Tk. 50 million) which helped
to ameliorate its capital position.
1.26         Loans to directors have also decreased from 0.8Z of total EOP
loans in 1985 to 0.2X in 1989 and from 8.2? of capital in 1985 to 4.2? of
capital in 1989. However, the volume of this type of lending is difficult to
measure and remains an area for concern.
1.27         The bank's net loans equalled 82? of total deposits and 52? of
total assets in 1990, indicating a fairly tight liquidity position. This is
borne out by management's preoccupation with mobilizing deposits and the fact
that its source of incremental funds is currently the call money market. Net
interest income to total average assets declined to a low of 2.2Z in 1990.
Nevertheless, ABB appears to have a fairly aggressive lending policy.
Contingent liabilities to equity have also steadily increased from 633? in
1985 to 1019Z in 1989.
1.28         The Bank has grown steadily with double digit increases in most
key indicators annually since 1985.



Attnchment I
Page 1 of 9
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
ARAB BANGUDESH SAW LTD.
Executive CouEttec f          Board of Droctors 
.-             .          r  er~~~~~~Pesident a              a ci3c=-r
| a"exch A Developm&nt                ma Snaging Director 
Executive Vice Presidont                    rawnches Control Division                               Executive Vice President
|Accounts a Int rnational|       -         2             i    -    - t                            |Operationo A Adeinistration
r-Interndl Insp ction                                                               r
Account A Fin  Cie  ~  Int rnat onal              --- Central Book Inapection  Crdt I iv a on         Ad -.nistration Division|   |ork-ting Div. 
Control DiviVion                 Division    I                                                                                           I  
_                      ~~~~~~~--follow-up A monitoring
-Accounts                   -reign Trnde                                                    -Cr-dit Srvice   -e-son                         --Brrnch Expansi on/
--Fin. A eudgetery Control  -orrospondent Waltionwhips                                      -Credit            -taff Training t                Plonning
-Elc. Date Processing       -Tt Keys                                                           Adminiotration    0^k                       -Resource
-Reconciliation               uthorized Signature Control                                   -Rcovery A           rotocol Servicos              Mobilization
Statents & Returns                                                                             fo Iow-up         rocureent A                   neral Banking
-External Audit                                                                                                   Dal Affairs  D;stribution
ility Serv'ces



Attachment 1
Page 2 of 9
ARAB BANGLADESH BANK LTD.
THE CREDIT DIVISION
Senior Vice President
Personal Assistant
Assist. Vice President|
Legal Affairs
Senior Officer
7 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
Khula/Satl/Barlsal               Chittagong             Maj/Bogra/Jessore                  Dhka
Senior Officer               Chief Officer               Senior Officer              Chief Officer
Credit Services             Credit Services              Credit Services              Credit Services
Assist. Officer              Senior Officer                   Officer               -      Officer
& Officer
Credit Administration       Credit Administration        Credit Administration        Credit Administration
Officer                    Officer &                Assistant Officer       _        Officer &
Assistant Officer                                        Assistant Officer



- 49 -
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 9
ARAB BANGLADESH BANK LIMITED
Key Credit Division Staff
OFFICER              QUALIFICATIONS              EXPERIENCE           FUNCTION
Senior Vice   Educated Burbank High School,    23 years             Corporate Credit
President      USA. B. Comm,. Dhaka              banking            and Division
University 1963                   experience         Chief
Asistant       MBA, Institute of Business        18 years           Portfolio Manager
Vice           Administration, Dhaka             banking
President      University                        experience
Chief          MBA, Institute of Business        7 years banking  Account Manager
Officer        Administration, Dhaka             experience
University
Chief          MBA, State University of New      8 years banking
Officer        York                              experience
Chief          MS, Economics, Dhaka              6 years banking
Officer        University                        experience
Senior         MA, Economics, Dhaka              15 years           Account Manager
Officer        University                        banking
experience
Senior         MS, Economics, South Eastern      5 years banking  Account
Officer        University, Massachusetts, USA   experience          Officer/Financial
Analyst
Senior         B. Comm. Finance, Dhaka           5 years banking  Account
Officer        University                        experience         Officer/Financial
Analyst
Officer        MS, Economics                     2 years            Account Officer
experience
Assistant      MBA, Institute of Basiness        4 years banking  Account
Office         Administration, Dhaka             experience         Officer/Financial
University                                          Analyst



- 50 -
Attachment I
Page 4 of 9
TABLE 1: ARAB BANGLADESH BANK LIMITED
BALANCE SHEETS                               Taka in Millions        Provisional   Provisional
ASSETS                    1985      1986       1987      1988         1989         1990
Cnsh & Due From Banks                   861        728     1,035      1,055        1,207        1,097
Money at Call & Short Notice              0         28        23         5            3            6
Investments                             343        364       405       531          673          756
Gross Loans & Advances                 1,290     1,603     2,059     2,812         3,708        4,480
L.ess: Provisions for Loan Losses          2         4        10        15           82           82
Net Loans & Advances                   1,288     1,599     2,049     2,797        3,626        4,398
Assets as per Contra                    763      1,087     1,481      1,177        1,839        1,587
Cther Assets                            494        219       269       271          537          641
TOTAL ASSETS                           3,749     4,024     5,261     5,835        7,885         8,490
LIABILITIES & CAPITAL
Demand Deposits                         653        813     1,024      1,024       2,939         1,191
Time Deposits                          1,036     1,540     2,121     2,425         1,648       4,188
TOTAL DEPOSITS                         1,689     2,353     3,145     3,449        4,587         5,379
Borrowings                              892        244       361       965         1,018         739
Liabilities as per Contra               763      1,087     1,481      1,177        1,839        1,587
Other Liabilities                       284        204       121        75          261          474
TOTAL LIABILITIES                      3,628     3,888     5,108     5,666        7,705        8,180
Paid-up Capital                          100       100       100       100          100          100
Reserves                                 20         36        53        69           45           80
Loan Loss Reserve [1]                     0          0         0         0           35           41
Undivided Profit                          0          0         0         0            0           88
TOTAL CAPITAL                            121       137       153       169          180          3i0
TOTAL LIABILITIES & CAPITAL            3,748     4,024     5,261     5,835        7,885        8,490
[11J This is a I % "blanket" Provision on Total Loans & Advances, as per BCD Circular No. 34, and is included
in Capital.
Sourcc: Arab Bangladesh Bank



Attachment I
- 5 1 -                               Page 5 of 9
TABLE 2: ARAB BANGLADESH BANK LIMITED
INCOME STATEMENTS                                      Taka in Millions
1985     1986      1987      1988      1989         1990
Interest Income                          238.5    286.2    351.6    464.3    587.9           840.3
Interest Expense                         142.2    176.1    221.9    330.5    431.6           659.2
NET INTEREST INCOME                       96.3    110.1    129.7    133.9    156.3           181.1
Non-Interest Income                       38.3      40.4      40.4      47.5      64.9        91.4
ADJUSTED OPERATING INCOME                134.6    150.5    170.1       181.3    221.2        272.5
Provision Expense                          2.0       2.3       5.6       5.2      66.6        49.8
Personnel Expense                         18.6      25.4      30.3      36.5      44.9        62.2
Other Non-Interest Expense                41.7      51.7      64.1      69.4      79.1        81.2
PRE-TAX OPERATING INCOME                  72.4      71.1      70.2      70.2      30.5        79.3
Less: Income Tax                          44.5      38.7      43.0      45.3      19.0
NET OPERATING INCOME                      27.9      32.5      27.2      24.9      11.5
Extraordinary Items                        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
NET INCOME                                27.9      32.5      27.2      24.9      11.5
Dividends Paid                            16.0      13.5      14.0      15.0       0.0
RETAINED EARNINGS                         11.9      19.0      13.2       9.9      11.5
Average Total Assets:                    3,686     3,886     4,643     5,548     6,860
Average Total Deposits:                  1,537     2,021     2,749     3,297     4,018
Average Total Loans:                     2,355     1,443     1,824     2,423     3,211
Loans to Directors:                         10        13         7         6        8
Classified Advances                          4       , 6        10       184       159
(As per BB classification): +
Loans to Directors                        0.8%      0.8%      0.3%      0.2%      0.2%
(as %age of Net Loans):
Loans to Directors                        8.2%      9.1%      4.5%      3.8%      4.2%
(%age of Capital and Reserves):
Number of Branches:                         13        18        21        25       30
Number of Employees:                       495       601       648       682      715
Net Income per Branch:                   2.145     1.804     1.293     0.998     0.385
Net Income per Employee:                 0.056     0.054     0.042     0.037     0.016
Source: Arab Bangladesh Bank
+ Loan classifisation by BB does not correspond to EOP advances, and is prior to BCD Circular 34.



-  52  -                                   Attachment I
Page 6 of 9
TABLE 3: ARAB BAI;C! ADESH BANK LIMITED
AATIOS
1985     1986     1987     1988     1989          1990
PROFITABILITY & EFFICIENCY
Interest Income/Average Total Assets             6.5%     7.4%      7.6%     8.4%     8.6%         10.3%
Intcrest Expense/Avcrage Total Assets            3.9%     4.5%     4.8%      6.0%     6.3%          8.1%
Net Interest Income/Total Averagc Assets         2 6%     2.8%      2.8%     2.4%     2.3%          2.2%
Non-Interest Income/Total Average Assets         1.0%      1.0%    0.9%      0.9%     0.9%          1.1%
Non-Interest Expense/Total Avcragc Assets        1.6%     2.0%      2.0%     1.9%     1.8%          1.8%
Provison Expense/Total Average Assets            0. 1%    0. 1%    0. 1%     0. 1%    1.0%          0.6%
Pre-Tax Op. Income/Total Averaage Assets         2.C%      1.8%     1.5%     1.3%     0.4%          1.0%
Net Operating Income/Total Average Assets        0.8%     0.8%      0.6%     0.4%     0.2%          NA
Net Income/Total Average Assets (ROA)            0.8%     0.8%     0.6%      0.4%     0.2%          NA
Net Income/(EOP) Assets (ROA)                    0.7%     0.8%     0.5%      0.4%     0.1%          NA
Net Income/Capital (Rtn. on Capital)            23.1%    23.8%    17.8%    14.8%      6.4%          NA
Interest Expense/Total Expenses                 69.6%    68.9%    68.9%    74.8%    69.4%          77.3%
Provision Expense/Total Expenses                 1.0%     0.9%      1.7%     1.2%    10.7%          5.8%
Personnel Expense/Total Expenses                 9.1%     9.9%     9.4%      8.3%     7.2%          7.3%
Other Expenses/Total Expenses                   20.4%    20.27c   19.9%    15.7%    12.7%           9.5%
Interest Income/Earning Assets                  14.6%    14.4%    14.2%    13.9%    13.7%          10.7%
Net Interest Income/Earning Assets               5.9%     5.5%     5.2%      4.0%     3.6%          2.3%
ASSET QUALITY
Loan Loss Provisions Expense/Average Total Lo    0. I %   0.2%     0.3%      0.2%     2.1%         10.7%
Reserves for Losses/Total (EOP) Loans            0.2%     0.3%     0.5%      0.5%     3.1%          1.8%
Reserves for Losses/Average Total Loans          0.1%     0.3%     0.5%      0.6%     3.6%          2.0%
CAPITALIZATION
Capital/Total Assets (EOP)                       3.2%     3.4%      2.9%     2.9%     2.3%          3.7%
Capital/Average Assets                           3.3%     3.5%      3.3%     3.0%     2.6%          3.8%
Capital/Total Deposits (EOP)                     7.1%     5.8%     4.9%    4.9%       3.9%          5.8%
LIQUIDITY
Net Loans/Total Deposits                        76.3%    67.9%    65.2%    81.1%    79.1%          81.8%
Net Loans/Total Assets                          34.4%    39.7%    39.0%   47.9%   46.0%            51.8%
GROWTH RATES
Assets (EOP)                                     3.5%     7.4%    30.7%    10.9%    35.1%           7.7%
Net Loans (EOP)                                 28.4%    24.1%    28.2%    36.5%    29.6%          21.3%
Deposits (EOP)                                  21.9%    39.4%    33.7%      9.7%    33.0%         17.3%
Capital (EOP)                                    8.7%    13.4%    11.9%    10.4%      6.8%         72.2%
Contingent Liabilities/Capital                 633.4%  795.0%  967.8%  696.7%  1019.4%           511.9%



- 53 -
Attachmcnt I
Page 7 of 9
TABLE 4: ARAB BANGLADESH BANK LIMITED
CREDIT PORTFOLIO                          Taka in Millions
% of               % of                   % of
A. Term Loans:               !987     Total      1988     Total      1989        Total
SSI                          16.2      0.8%      19.2      0.7%      41.0         1.1%
Ship Scrapping                8.8      0.4%       5.9      0.2%       4.3         0.1%
Housing                      39.8      2.0%     181.0      6.4%     226.7         6.2%
Transport                     9.7      0.5%      22.8      0.8%      53.4         0.9%
Contract Work                21.6       1.1%     40.7      1.4%      96.9         2.6%
Others                      183.9      9.2%     282.8     10.1%     202.2         5.5%
Sub-total:                  280.0      14.1%    552.4     19.6%    604.5         16.5%
B. Trade Financc:
Export Finance               97.4      4.9%     168.9      6.0%     198.8         5.4%
Import Finance              528.3     26.5%     530.7     18.9%     866.3        23.6%
Other Trade Finance          48.7      2.4%     100.9      3.6%       0.0         0.0%
Bills Puchased/Discounted   163.2      8.2%     127.8      4.5%     194.9         5.3%
Sub-total:                  837.6    42.1%      928.3     33.0%   1,260.0        34.3%
C. Working Capital Financing
Manufacturing & Industry    219.2     11.0%     342.5     12.2%     379.3        10.3%
Trading                     315.2      15.8%    420.6     15.0%   1,136.4        31.0%
Contract Work               143.0      7.2%     130.2      4.6%     176.9         4.8%
Others                      196.7      9.9%     389.1     13.8%     111.6         3.0%
Sub-total:                  874.1     43.9%   1,282.4     45.6%   1.804.2        49.2%
D. Syndications *:            0 0      0.0%      49.4      1.8%       0.0         0.0%
TOTAL:                     1,991.7    100.0%   2,812.5    100.0%   3,668.7      100.0%
Syndicated loan to Bangladcsh Biman for the purchase of aircraft.



-  54 -                   Attachment I
Page 8 of 9
TABLE 5: ARAB BANGLADESH BANK LIMITED
CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT - 20 LARGEST BORROWERS OF ABB
1987 and 1990
Taka in Millions
1987 Data:
No. of      Facility       %         % of Total      % of
Serial No.   Firms      Allowed      of Group      Credit       Capital
1          2         37.3          4.3%         1.8%        24.4%
2           1         22.5         2.6%          1.1 %       14.7%
3          2          13.7         1.6%         0.7%          9.0%
4          2          36.0         4.2%          1.8%        23.6%
5           1         15.0         1.7%         0.7%          9.8%
6          7          64.5         7.5%         3.1%        42.2%
7          5          79.0         9.2%         3.9%         51 7%
8          6          15.3         1.8%         0.7%         10.0%
9          15         70.0         8.1%         3.4%        45.8%
10         17         50.0          5.8%         2.4%        32.7%
11         10          50.0         5.8%         2.4%        32.7%
12         10          30.0         3.5%         1.5%         19.6%
13          5         50.0          5.8%         2.4%        32.7%
14          4         23.0          2.7%         1.1%         15.1%
15         16         40.0          4.6%         2.0%        26.2%
16          9         20.0          2.3%         1.0%         13.1%
17          4         30.0          3.5%         1.5%        19.6%
18          6         30.0          3.5%         1.5%        19.6%
19          6          30.0         3.5%         1.5%         19.6%
20          2         155.0        18.0%         7.6%        101.5%
130        861.3       100.0%        42.0%       564.0%
Total loans outstanding, December 31, 1987:                     2,049.3
Capital & Reserves, December 31, 1987:                           152.7
1990 Data:
Loans outstanding to 20 largest borrowers,                          942.0
December 31, 1990
Loans outstanding to largest borrower,                              215.1
December 31, 1990
Net loans outstanding, December 31, 1990                           4398.0
Capital and Reserves, December 31, 1990                             310.0



- 55 -
Attachment I
Page 9 of 9
TABLE 6: ARAB BANGLADESH BANK LIMITED
PROVISIONS AS OF DECEMBER 1990
(Taka in Millions)
AMOUNT PROVIDED AGAINST CLASSIFIED LOANS
LOAN CLASSIFICATION
AND PROVISIONS             CUMULATIVE AS OF                           CUMULATIVE AS OF
DECEMBER 1989            FOR 1990         DECEMBER 1990
Substandard (@10%)                                 9.5               4.5                      14.1
Doubtful (@50%)                                   28.2              31.9                      60.1
Loss (@100%)                                         -               7.4                       7.4
Subtotal                                          37.7             43.8                       81.6
General provision on unclassified                 34.9               6.0                      40.9
outstandings (@1 %)
Grant Total                                       72.6              49.8                     122.5
Note: Position of Interest Suspense Account:
Amount
December 1989 Balance                             28.9
Additions During 1990                             30.2
December 1990 Balance                             59.1



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
International Finance Investment and Commerce Bank Limited
Structure, Operations and Policies
Structure and Operations
1.1         The International Investment Finance and Commerce Company Limited
was established as a private company in 1976 at the initiative of the
Government of Bangladesh (GOB). 49Z of its shares were allocated to NCBs and
financial institutions, 512 to the general public and foreign investors. The
main objective was to carry on banking and other financial business outside
Bangladesh, alone or in collaboration or partnership with other companies and
institutions. In 1979 Bangladesh Bank (BB) authorized the company to conduct
merchant banking and foreign exchange business domestically. In June 1983,
GOB decided to convert the company into a banking company and changed its name
to the International Investment Finance and Commerce Bank Limited (IFIC), with
60Z of its shareholding in the form of class A shares owned by the private
sector and 40? in the form of class B shares held by GOB. Its director
shareholders (including the BEXIMCO group) together own 83.75? of class A
shares.
1.2         The Bank's branch network has expanded from seven branches in 1984
to more than 35, including a branch at Karachi, Pakistan. Its staff numbers
over 1,000. IFIC has two affiliates: The Bank of Maldives Limited is a joint
venture with 60? ownership by the Government of the Maldives and several
parastatals, and 40? owned by IFIC, which has a 10-year management contract.
The Oman Bangladesh Exchange Company Limited, with two branches at Muscat and
Salalah, is majority owned by Omani nationals but managed by IFIC.
1.3         IFIC Bank is controlled by a board of directors headed by a
chairman. Three of the ten directors are government nominees and seven are
from The private sector. A Managing Director is in charge of operations and
is chief executive officer. Three group executives in charge of (1) Finance
and Marketing, (2) Services and (3) Operations report to a DMD. The
organization chart of the Bank is in Attachment 2 (Page 1 of 7). The group
executive for Marketing and Finance contro.'s two departments: Finance &
Accounting and Marketing. The group executive for Services controls three
departments: Personnel & Administration, Development and the Bank Examiner's
department (Audit). 'he group executive for Operations controls two
departments: Credit and International.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
Policies
1.4          Internal credit portfolio/individual obligor exposure guidelines
or restrictions appear to be in place by sector, types of financing and types
of security or collateral. Compliance is reviewed and monitored by the board
every six months. Credit appraisal is rudimentary but most lending activity
is to known clients with established track records. Policy regarding loan
classification, interest suspension and provisions for bad and doubtful debts
is as required by BB.
1.5         IFIC is conservative regarding branch expansion and it appears to
have a conservative stance with respect to the business it conducts. The Bank
has its own training institute at Head Office.
1.6         IFIC has prepared a detailed policy statement which covers such
points as term lending policy, prudential rules regarding risk, i.e.,
portfolio and single obligor diversification and limits on lending to
directors. The statement also includes the Bank's policy on resource
mobilization, interest rate and dividend policy, audit and procurement
requirements ana credit diversification or concentration in general.
1.7         IFIC's exposure to individual obligors can be high.  It was 123%
of capital for a particular borrower in 1987, and during that year the 18
largest borrowers accounted for 40% of the Bank's total credit portfolio
(Attachment 2, Page 7 of 7).
Term Finance Capability
1.8         IFIC's term credit portfolio is small relative to total advances
(3.3% in 1988) and the Bank's policy currently restricts it to about 32 of
total advances. Total loans to industry in 1988 were 15.4X of the advances
portfolio. There is a very small volume of bridge financing, which is
considered to be equity financing, in consortium under the Investment
Corporation of Bangladesh's lead.
1.9         The Specialized Credit section at Head Office, responsible for
appraising term credit proposals, is staffed with four officers, four
financial analysts and an economist and headed by a Senior Vice President, who
has term lending experience (Attachment 2, Page 2 of 7). Some of the
department's staff are qualified and experienced, while others are newly
qualified MBAs (Attachment 2, Page 3 of 7). These staff are currently
utilized to appraise working capital financing. IFIC has not identified
training for its term finance staff, but some will probably be useful. The
department has no engineers, but IFIC intends to procure these skills through
local consultants.



- S8 B
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
Financial Performance
1.10         Capital as a percentage of deposits has steadily declined from
7.1? in 1985 to 4.32 in 1990 after provisions as required by BCD Circular 34.
Nevertheless, IFIC is still one of the better capitalized local banks.
1.11         Loans to directors were as much as 4.6Z of total advances in 1987,
amounting to 77Z of capital, but declined greatly in relative importance in
1989 and 1990, when they equalled less than 7? of capital and less than 4% of
net loans outstanding.
1.12         The Bank's advances w4ere as high as 80? of deposits in 1987.  This
ratio was 87Z in 2.990, indicating a fairly aggressive lending policy and tight
liquidity. IFIC is also reputed to be a frequent borrower on the call money
market. Net interest income to total average assets has never been higher
than 2.3?, a level achieved in 1986. It has fallen since then, which
indicates a fairly high cost of funds and, since 1989, a more competitive
market. The Bank's profitability in teams of return on average assets was
0.9? in 1985 and 1.0? in 1986, but declined almost to zero in 1989 with the
introduction of more realistic accounting principles under financial reforms.
Return on equity similarly declined from a high of 24.1? in 1986 to 2.3Z by
1989. Profitability recovered slightly in 1990.
1.13         The growth in contingent liabilities has also been marked from
468Z of capital in 1985 to 1369? in 1990.
1.14         The Bank has sustained high but generally declining growth rates
in total assets, net loans and deposits. Capital has grown by material
amounts, but generally less rapidly than total assets, leaving IFIC
undercapitalized with a 2.7? capital-to-assets ratio at the end of 1990. A
summary of IFIC's accounts is in Attachment 2 (Pages 4 and 5 of 7).



Attachment 2
Page 1 of 7
IFIC BAK LTD.
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
rBoard of Directors
E uIe             Secetry's Du partint
Hunan Re sourie
D avelopm nt A                Penagrng Dir ctor
Research DopartDent
DCeputy Menaging  Dirncr;oa
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Group                          Group                        Group
EX CUtiYe                      Exocutive                    Executive
Finanne- A Marketing                 S rvic s                    Operatiosn
J   iFco A Account|       q  e nn l A Admn.n  |                   r dit      
l    D-p rts nt    l  |   D-p rts nt  l    |     Departmont 
a irketing    l                   v evlopment         L r           a ntional 
Dprtm nt     l               opartg nt                    Oep aprtment 
_Bann Examiner's
JDepartmsnt



Attachment 2
Page 2 of 7
IFIC BANK LTD.
The Specialized Credit Section
Organizational Chart
Senior Vice President
Specialized Crodit
Section
Senior Assisant
Vice President
Assistant
Vice President
0'
Senior Staff
Officer
Senior Officer
Officer (Gr. 1)
FinanciaI Ana yet   Financial Analyst   Financisa  Analyst   Financial Analyst   Financial Analyat
Officer (Or. 1)     Officer (Cr. 1)      Offic r                      (Or. 1)  Officer (Gr. 1)  OffIken (Gr  I)



- 61 -
Attachment 2
Page 5 of 7
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE INVESTMENT & COMMERCE BANK LIMITED
Personnel of the the Specialized Credit Section
OFFICER                  QUALIFICATIONS                     EXPERIENCE            l
Senior Vice President  IDA-sponsored SSI training         21 years banking experience,
schemes in India and Sri         5 years in IFIC; Diverse
Lanka                            term financing experience
with foreign and IDA credit
lines.
Senior Assistait Vice                M.B.A.               13 years banking experience
President                                                 with PICIC, BSRS and 5 yeras
with IFIC.
Assistant Vice                       M.B.A.               Project Financing exposure
President                                                 with Agrani Bank, PDCP, and
Asia Business Consultants
Inc., Manila - sponsored by
IDA.  2.5 years with IFIC.
Officer (Financial                   M.B.A.               12 years banking experience:
Analyst)                                                  4 years with Sonali Bank, 4
years with American Express
and 4 years with IFIC.
Officer (Financial                   M.B.A.               8 years banking experience:
Analyst)                                                  4 years with BSB and 4 years
with IFIC.
Officer                              M.B.A.               4 years banking experience,
mostly with IFIC.
Officer                              M.B.A.               2 years banking experience
with IFIC.
Officer                              M.B.A.               4 years banking experience
with IFIC, some expereience
with BCIC and EP'T.



- 62  -                                  Attachment 2
Page 4 of 7
TABLE 1: INTERNATIONAL FINANCE INVESTMENT & COMMERCE BANK LIMITED
BALANCE SHEETS                                         Taka in MiUions
ASSETS                       198$    1986    1987    1988    1989            1990
Cash & Due Frora Banks                          356      508      712    1,078    1,032        1,020
Money at Cas l& Short Notice                     20        0        0        0        0           13
Investments                                     300      369      393      689     815          966
GrossLoans&Advaaces[21                         1,108    1,784    3,011    3,894   4,671        5,529
Less; Provisions for Loan Losses                  0        4       12       26      151          198
Nct Loans & Advances                           1,108    1,780   2,999    3,868   4,520         5,727
AssetsasperContra                               528      858    1,276    1,709    2,860        2,217
Othce Assets                                     130     100      110      232     225           338
TOTAL ASSETS                                   2,442    3,615    5,490    7,576    9,452      !0,281
LIABILITIES & CAPITAL
Demand Deposits                                 701    1,050    1,621    2,270    2,139        2,440
Time Deposits                                   886    1,294    2,101    2,828    3,773        4,155
TOTAL DEPOSITS                                 1,586   2,344    3,722    5,099    5,913        6,595
Borrowings                                        16      41       93      178     203          373
Liabilities as per Contra                       528      858    1,276    1,709    2,860        2,771
Other Liabilities                                199     229      221      380     216           259
TOTAL LIABILITIES                              2,330    3,472    5,313    7,366    8,540       9,998
Paid-up Capital                                  72       S0       80       88      132          145
Reserves                                         41       63       98      122      129          97
Loan Loss Reserve 1(I                             0        0        0        0        0          40
Undivided Profit                                  0        0        0        0       0             0
TOTAL CAPITAL                                    113     143      178      210     267          2R2
TOTAL LIABILITIES & CAPITAL                    2,442    3,615    5,490    7,576    9,452      10,281
OTHER CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Letters of Credit
Letters of Guarantee                                                               499           630
Others                                                                              295          355
TOTAL OTHER CONTINGENT LIABILITIES[2]             0        0        0        0      795         985
[(I This is a I% "blanket' Provision on Total Loans & Advances, as per BCD Circular No. 34, and is
in.'uded in Capital.
[2) New reporting standards were introduced and applied from 1989 onwards



- 63 -
AttncmnLent 2
Page 5 of 7
TABLE 2: INTERNATIONAL FINANCE INVESTMENT & COMMERCE BANK LIMITED
INCOME STATEMENTS                                               Taka in Millions
1985      1986      1987      1988       1989         1990
Interest Income                                     185.1     344.2     505.3     550.4      563.0        661.9
Interest Expense                                    137.0     261.0     398.5     443.3      545.4        618.6
NET INTEREST INCOME                                 48.1       83.2     106.8      107.1      17.6         43.3
Non-Interest Income                                 39.5       64.8      81.4      99.2      132.5        163.7
AiDJUSTED OPERATING INCOME                          87.6      148.0     188.2     206.3      150.1        207.0
Provision Expense                                     0.0       3.9       8.2       13.8       0.0          0.0
Personnel Expense                                    19.1      32.7      45.6      52.6       67.0         73.4
Other Non-interest Expense                           25.3      38.8      55.3      53.8       66.3         74.2
PRE-TAX OPERATING INCOME                            43.2       72.6      79.1       86.0      16.8         59.3
Less: 'ncome Tax                                     22.4      38.1      44.4      49.5       10.6         38.0
NET OPERATING INCOME                                20.8       34.5      34.7      36.5        6.2         21.3
Extraordinary Items                                  0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0          0.0
NET INCOME                                          20.8       34.5      34.7      36.5        6.2         21.3
Dividends Paid                                        0.0      12.0      12.0       13.2       0.0          0.0
RETAIvNED EARNINGS                                   20.8      22.5      22.7      23.3        6.2         21.3
Average Total Assets:                                         3,028     4,552     6,533      8.514        9,886
Average Total Deposits:                             1,091     1,895     2,900     4,240      5,300        6,254
Average Net Loans:                                   832      1,444     2,390     3,434      4,203        5,449
Loans to Directors:                                  13.1      18.7     137.2      100.3   Pf199.2        176.2
Classified Advances:                                 NA         NA        NA       177.1       NA           NA
Loans to Directors (as a %age of Net Advances):      1.2%      1.1%      4.6%       2.6%      2.4%         3.2%
Loans to Directors (as a % of Capital & Reserves):  11.6%     13.1%     77.2%      47.7%      3.7%         6.2%
Number of branches:                                    10        20        22        29         31           33
Number of employees:                                 432        625       738       827        945          992
Net Income per branch:                             2.080      1.725     1577       1.259     0.177        0.645
Net Income per employee:                            0.048     0.055     0.047     0.044      0.007        0.021
11 New reporting standards were introduced and applied beginning with 1989 data.
Sourcc: IFIC Bank



-  64  -                                  Attachment 2
Page 6 of7
I'ABLE 3: INTERNATIONAL FINANCE INVESTMENT & COMMERCE BANK LIMITED
RATIOS
1985     1986    19S7      198&     1989         1990
PROFITABILITY & EFFICIENCY
Interest Income/Average Total Assets               7.6%     9.5%     9.2%     7.3%     6.6%          6.7%
Interest Expense/Average Total Assets              5.6%     7.2%     7.3%     5.9%     6.4%          6.3%
Net Interest IncometTotal Average Assets           2.0%     2.3%     1.9%     1.4%     0.2%          0.4%
NoA-Interest Income/Total Average Assets           1.6%     1.8%     1.5%     1.3%     1.6%          1.7%
Non-interest Expense/Total Average Assets          1.8%     2.0%     1.8%     1.4%     1.6%          1.5%
Provison Expense/Total Average Assets [1]          0.0%     0.1%     0.1%     0.2%
Pre-Tax Op. Income/Total Average Assets            1.8%     2.0%     1.4%     1.1%     0.2%         0.6%
Net Operating Income/Total Average Assets          0.9%     1.0%     0.6%     0.5%     0.0%          0.2%
Net Income/T. Avg. Assets (Rtn. on Assets)         0.9%     1.0%     0.6%     0.5%     0.0%          0.2%
Net Income/(EOP) Assets (Rtn. on Assets)           0.9%     1.0%     0.6%     0.5%     0.0%         0.2%
Net Income/Capital (Rtn. on Capital)              18.4%    24.1%    19.5%    17.4%     2.3%          7.6%
Interest Expense/Total Expenses                   75.5%    77.6%    78.5%    78.7%    80.4%        80.7%
Provision Expense/Total Expenses                   0.0%     1.1%     1.6%     2.4%
Personnel Expense/Total Expenses                  10.5%     9.7%     9.0%     9.3%     9.9%         9.6%
Other Expenses/Total Expenses                     13.9%    11.5/e   10.9%     9.6%     9.8%          9.7%
Interest Income/Earning Assets                    13.0%    16.0%    14.9%    12.1%     6.1%          6.7%
Net Interest Income/Earning Assets                 3.4%     3.9%     3.1%     2.3%     0.2%         0.4%
ASSET QUALITY
Loan Loss Provisions Expense/Average Total Loans [   0.0%   0.3%     0.3%     0.4%
Reserves for Losses/Total (EOP) Loans [1]          0.0%     0.2%     0.4%     0.7%     3.3%          3.5%
Reserves for Losses/Average Total Loans (1]        0.0%     0.3%     0.5%     0.8%     3.6%          3.9%
CAPITALIZATION
Capital/Total Assets (EOP)                         4.6%     4.0%     3.2%     2.8%     2.8%          2.7%
Capital/Average Assets                             4.6%     4.0%     3.2%     2.8%     3.1%          2.9%
Capital/Total Deposits (EOP)                       7.1%    6.1%    4.8%       4.1%    4.5%          4.3%
LIQUIDITY
Net Loans/Total Deposits                          69.8%    75.9%    80.6%    75.9%    87.5%        86.8%
Net Loans/Total Assets                            45.4%    49.2%    54.6%    51.0%    54.7%        55.7%
GROWTH RATES
Assets (EOP)                                      53.5%    48.0%    51.9%    38.0%    24.8%          8.8%
Net Loans (EOP)                                   92.1%    60.7%    68.5%    29.0%    33.7%         10.8%
Deposits (EOP)                                    83.7%    47.8%    58.8%    37.0%    16.0%         11.5%
Capital (BOP)                                      8.4%    27.0%    24.2%    '8.3%    27.2%          5.6%
Contingent Liabilities/Capital                   468.4%   599.3%   717.8%   812.4%  1368.9%       1331.9%
[1] Data are net of provisions from 1989 onwards.



- 65 -
Attachment 2
Page 7 of 7
TABLE 4: INTERNATIONAL FINANCE INVESTMENT & COMMERCE
BANK LIMITED
CONCENTRATION OF CREDI-f - 18 LARGEST BORROWERS OF IFIC - 1987
Taka in Millions
No. of       Facility        %         % of Total      % of
Serial No.    Firms       Allowed       of Group      Credit       Capital
I            1         125.0         10.4%         4.2%        70.3%
2            1           80.0         6.7%         2.7%        45.0%
3           17           60.0         5.0%         2.0%        33.7%
4            1           75.0         6.2%         2.5%        42.2%
5            1           94.0         7.8%         3.1%        52.9%
6            7           55.0         4.6%         1.8%        30.9%
7            3           30.0         2.5%         1.0%         16.9%
8           17          27.5          2.3%         0.9%         15.5%
9            1          46.0          3.8%         1.5%        25.9%
10            1         218.8         18.2%         7.3%       123.1%
1 1           1          130.0        10.8%         4.3%        73.1%
12            2          29.0          2.4%         1.0%        16.3%
13            1          40.0          3.3%         1.3%        22.5%
14            1           16.0         1.3%         0.5%         9.0%
15            1          105.0         8.7%         3.5%        59.1%
16            1          45.9          3.8%         1.5%        25.8%
17            1           12.5         1.0%         0.4%         7.0%
18            1           11.6         1.0%         0.4%         6.5%
59        1,201.3       100.0%        40.1%       675.6%
Total advances outstanding as at Dec. 31, 1987:                    2,999.4
Capital & Reserves as at Dec. 31, 1987:                             177.8



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
The United Commercial Bank Limited
Structure, Operations and Policies
Structure and Operations
1.1         The United Commercial Bank Limited (UCB) was established in 1983
as a private commercial bank with a paid-up capital of Tk. 44 million. The
Board is composed of 21 directors, headed by an ex-officio chairman. The
Managing Director (MD) is the chief executive officer and an ex-officio member
of the Board. Fifteen directors are sponsor directors, three are shareholder
directors representing public shareholding, and one represents GOB's 5Z
shareholding. Control is reputed to be exercised by a group of sharelholders
who hold a 102 bloc and possibly influence a greater percentage. Paid-up
capital in 1990 stood at Tk. 120 million with reserves of Tk. 70 million.
1.2         The bank is run by the MD who is assisted by a Deputy MD to whom
twelve departments at Head Office report (a standard NCB structure) (see
Attachnment 3, Page 1 of 9). The branch network, consisting of more than 55
branches, also reports to the DMD. There are twelve divisions or departments
at Head Office. All report to the MD through the DMD. UCB currently employs
more than 1,400 personnel. The current MD has over 27 years banking
experience, of which thirteen were in NCBs.
1.3         Loan approval is centralized at Head Office.  An Executive
Committee (EC) composed of the MD and five sponsor directors currently
constitute the EC. The EC is elected by the Board. In addition, specific
loan approval authority is delegated to the MD by the board. This authority
varies by the type of financing, type and extent of collateral and borrowing
entity, i.e., public corporations, private (limited) companies and
individuals. The MD is authorized by the Board to delegate some of his
approval power to the DMD. Branch managers are allowed only very limited
authority against readily realizable, liquid securities such as GOB bonds and
deposits under lien at their own branches. Partially secured credit is
allowed only to the extent of Tk. 100,000 and for very short maturities.
Credit proposals are routed through the Credit Division, or the International
Division ,i the case of trade-related advances.  The bulk of advances finance
trade and working capital, though only 10 branches are authorized to establish
letters of credit. Term finance constitutes a small proportion of the total
portfolio.
1.4         The Administration Division is responsible for the personnel
function. The International Division is responsible for trade financing,
correspondent relations and remittances; the Credit Division for all advances



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
other than trade and term finance. The Industrial Credit Division (ICD) is a
small cell responsible for term finance. The Establishment Division is
responsible for offlce supplies, procurement of furniture and fixtures,
utilities and the maintenance of premises. The Legal Division handles all the
Bank's legal matters including loan recoveries through the courts. The
General Banking and Development Division is responsible for opening new
branches, obtaining BB permission in this respect, interest rate determination
and the circulation of BB instructions to the branches. This division also
coordinates deposit mobilization and functions as a marketing division. The
Recoveries Division deals with defaults, following-up with defaulters,
conducting r,sset searches and valuations. The Inspection Division conducts
internal audit and branch inspection. In addition, there is a Central
Acccunting function, a Training Institute and a Public Relations Cell.
Central Accounts is responsible for consolidation and returns and has no
treasury role or capability.
Policies
1.5         The preponderance of UCB's lending is short term trade finance and
working capital. The level of collateral, interest rate spreads, short-term
nature of risk and ease of management make such lending attractive. Project
financing appears to be undertaken only in exceptional cases, including
defensive situations involving borrowers who do sizable business with the
Bank, or if management anticipates a large volume of related business.
1.6         There is no formal policy regarding portfolio diversification.
However, individual obligor exposure is restricted to 50? of capital including
both funded and contingent exposure. However, individual exposure can be
high: 107Z of capital in 1987 and 1372 in 1990 (Attachment 3, Page 6 of 9).
Clearly the Bank would be strengthened by a more stringent policy regarding
individual exposures.
1.7         Classification policy is as prescribed by BB.  According to the
management, there is no explicit policy to manage tha cost of funds or
resources mix, or to discourage term deposits. The Bank's overall pursuit is
a larger deposit base, permitting expansion of advances.
Term Finance Capability
1.8         Attachment 3 (Page 7 of 9) gives a profile of UCB's term finance
portfolio, which is extremely small. All term financing is to the private
sector and of under five years maturity. UCB has had unfortunate experience
with the ready made garments sector, having to allow interest amnesty and
reschedule principal repayments.
1.9         Term finance capability is extremely limited and exists only at
Head Office in Dhaka. Formal appraisal consists only of memoranda to the EC.
These memos contain a fairly detailed summary of project proposals, including



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
a write-up on the investors, project cost, market information, projected
income and fund flow statements for three years of oper&tions and draft loan
terms and conditions. The Bank asks for three competitive quotations for
imported machinery.
1.10        These memos require greater detail to be adequate for project
financing purposes, especially in management, market and technical analysis.
Financial analysis also requires improvement. The divisional head has term
finance experience.
1.11        The Bank's mid-1990 pipeline of term finance requests is in
Attachment 3 (Page 9 of 9).
Financial Performance
1.12        UCB was relatively well prepared for the implementation of reforms
specified in BCD Circular 34. But it remains undercapitalized: capital as a
percentage of deposits stands at less than 52, while capital is less than 42
of assets.
1.13        Loans classified as substandard, doubtful and bad amounted to
Tk. 294 million at the end of 1990, or about 1OX of the portfolio. Loss
provisions of Tk. 167 million as required by BCD Circular 34 were recorded at
the end of 1990.
1.14        UCB's policy regarding advances appears not to be as aggressive as
that of some other banks. Advances to deposits during the period 1985 - 1989
never exceeded 78Z (recorded in 1987) and was as low as 58Z in 1988. This
ratio was 61Z in 1990. UCB has thus remained more liquid and as a result has
frequently lent in the call market. UCB appears to have a lower cost of funds
than some other banks as well: interest expense as a percentage of average
assets has remained below 6Z. This is reflected in a 1.1Z return on average
assets in 1990. Return on equity has also been satisfactory in most years and
reached 33Z in 1990 following a collapse in net earnings in 1989 as a result
of provisioning requirements under Circular 34. The Bank has tended to pay
dividends at the expense of accumulating capital to support growth, as shown
by erratic capital ratios.
1.15        The bank has been prudent with its portfolio of contingent
liabilities, which was highest in 1985 at 626% of capital and fell to 421% in
1989.
1.16        Growth rates in total assets, net loans, deposits and capital has
been good during the period 1985 to 1989. UCB's accounts for 1985 - 1988, and
for 1989 and 1990 following the implementation of reforms, are in Attachment 3
(Pages 3 and 4 of 9).



Attachment 3
Page 1 of 9
UNITED COMMERCIAL BANK LTD.
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
| Chairman 
President           V
Managing Dirco         Copn   eety
Deput
Managing Director
rExecutive If President               o  xstv  V. President|
International Division          Credit Diviaion
Executive V. President             ~                                                Executive V. President
Industriol Crodit                                                                     Lessl Division
Division
Senior V. President          Senior V. President
Inspection Division           Recovery Division
Vice President                                                                      Vice President
General Banking                                                                      Administration
A Development
Principal                     Incharge
Training                  Central Accounts
Instiy,ute                    Division
Incharge                                                                             Incharge
Establishment                                                                           Public
Relations
S4 branches



Attachment 3
Pe2of
UNITED COMMERCIAL BANK LTD.
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT DIVISION ORGANIZATIONAL C4ART
Executive
Vice 'Pre9sident
Industrial Credit Division
Appraisal & Operation                                   Monitoring, Supervision
Officer                                            Follow-up & Recovery
(Gr. 1)                                              Officer (Gr. 1)
Engineer         Economist-cum-                    Off;cer (Gr. IIA)         Officer (Gr. ZIB)
Officer         Financial Analyst
(Gr. IIB)       Officer (Gr.IIB)
(Vacancy)            (Vacancy)
gOfficer (Gr. IIIA) lOfficer (Gr. IlA)
Typ;sts
llssanger



-  71                                   Attachment 3
Page 3 of 9
TABLE 1: UNITED COMMERCIAL BANK LIMITED
Taka in Millions
BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS                        1985    1986    1987       1988     1989        1990
Cash & Due From Banks                            357     427       850      904    1,150       1,005
Money at CaU & Short Notice                      48      :45        0         0      325         230
Investments                                     224      388      218      968       505         999
Gross Loans & Advances                           866    1,252    1,987    1,908    2,460       3,299
Less: Provisions for Loan Losses                   0        3       17       20       96         167
Net Loans & Advances                            866    1,249    1,970    1,889    2,364        3,032
Assets as per Contra                            418      461      764      726    1,139        1,256
Other Asses                                      123      118     205       228      309         344
TOTAL ASSETS                                   2,036    2,788    4,007    4,714    5,793       6,866
LIABILITIES & CAPITAL
Demand Deposits                                  651     907      936    1,134    1,235        1,805
TimeDeposits                                     783    1,118    1,575    2,138    2,611       3,197
TOTAL DEPOSITS                                 1,433    2,025    2,511    3,272    3,846       5,002
Borrowings                                        31       26      112       56       58         142
Liabilities as per Contra                       418      461      764       726    1,139       1,256
Other Liabilities                                 88      160     491      471       560         248
TOTAL LIABILITIES                              1,970    2,672    3,879    4,524    5,603       6,648
Paid-up Capital                                   44       80       80      120      120         120
Reserves                                          14       24       36       70       70          85
Loan Loss Reserve [1]                              0        0       0         0        0
Undivided Profit                                   9       12       12        0        0          12
TOTAL CAPITAL                                     67      116      128      190      190         217
TOTAL LIABILITIES & CAPITAL                    2,036    2,788    4,007    4,714    5,793       6,866
OTHER CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Letters of Credit                                                                    989        1058
Letters of Guarantee                                                                 130         160
Others                                                                                 0           0
TOTAL OTHER CONTINGENT LIABILITIES                 0        0        0        0    1,1!9       1,218
p:provisional
[I] This is a 1% 'blanket' Provision on Total Loans & Advances, as per BCD Circular No. 34, and is included
in Capital.
Source: United Commercial Bank Ltd.



- 72 -                                  Attachment 3
Pager 4 cf 9
TABLE 2: UNITED COMMERCIAL BANK LIMITED
Taka in Millions
INCOME STATEMENTS
1985     1986      1987      1988      1989       1990
Interest Income                             149.3    219.0    339.0    391.4    368.2          520.1
Interest Expense                             72.4    127.0    197.6    232.2    289.9          370.5
NET INTEREST INCOME                          76.9      92.0    141.4    159.2       78 3       149.6
Non-Intercst Incomne                         18.4      17.3      28.0     34.1      44.0        67.8
ADJUSTED OPERATING INCOME                    95.3    109.3    169.4    193.3        122.3      217.4
Provision Expensw                             0.0       3.3      14.0      2.4       0.0         0.0
Personnel Expense                            23.7      32.3     42.8      53.2      56.7        67.6
Other Non-Interest Expense                   29.5      35.2      48.5     58.2      64.6         73
PRE-TAX OPERATING INCOME                     42.1      38.5     64.1      79.6        1.0       76.8
Less: Income Tax                             25.4      19.1     39.3      45.6       0.4        4.6
NET OPERATING INCOME                         16.7      19.4     24.8      34.0       0.6        72.2
Extraordinary Items                           0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0
NET INCOME                                   16.7      19.4     24.8      34.0       0.6        72.2
Dividends Paid                                6.6      12.0      12.0      18.0
RETAINED EARNINGS                            10.1       7.4      12.8     16.0       0.6        72.2
Average Total Assets:                       1,778     2,412     3,397    4,361     5,254       6330
Average Total Deposits:                     1,103     1,611    2,217     2,750     3,340       4424
Average Total Loans: [1]                     647      1,035     1,645    1,986     2,127       2698
Loans to Directors:                            14        14        8        16       h;.        NA
Classified Advances (As per BB classification):  NA    N A       196       227       NA         NA
Loans to Directors (asa %age of Net Loans):  1.6%      1.1%      0.4%      0.8%     0.0%        NA
Loans to Directors (%age of Capital & Reserve    24.2%  13.8%    6.7%      8.3%     0.0%        NA
Number of Branches:                            24       30        40        50        55
Number of Employees:                          645      862      1,063     1,255     1,334
Net Income per Branch:                      0.698     0.646     0.621    0.679      1.455
Net Income per Employee:                    0.026     0.022     0.023    0.027     0.060
p: p.ovisional
[I1 Net of Provisions beginning in 1989.
+ Classified advances do not correspond to EOP advances, and atre prior to BCD Circular 34.
Sou.ce: United Commercial Bank Ltd.



7 3  -                                 Attachment 3
Page 5 of 9
TABLE 3: UNITED COMMERCIAL BANK LIMITED
RATIOS
1985      1986      1987       1988      1989          1990
PROFITABILITY & EFFICIENCY
Interest Income/Average Total Assets                  8.4%      9.1%      10.0%      9.0%       7.0%         8.2%
Interest Expense/Average Total Assets                 4.1%      5.3%       5.8%      5.3%       5.5%         5.9 %
Net Interest Inc ,me/Total Average Assets             4.3%      3.8%       4.2%      3.6%       1.5%         2.4%
Non-Interest IncomeJTotal Average Assets              1.0%      0.7%       0.8%      0.8%       0.8%         1.1%
Non-Intereat Expense/Total Average Assets             3.0%      2.8%       2.7%      2.6%       2.3%         2.2%
Provison ExpenselTotal Average Assets                 0.0%      0. 1%      0.4%      0.1 %      NA            NA
Pre-Tax Op. Income/Total Average Assets               2.4%      1.6%       1.9%      1.8%      0.0%          1 2%
Net Operating Income/Total Average Assets             0.9%      0.8%       0.7%      0.8%      0.0%          1.2%
Net Income/Total Average Assets (ROA)                 0.9%      0.8%       0.7%      0.8%       0.0%         1.2%
Net Income/(EOP) Assets (ROA)                         0.8%      0.7%       0.6%      0.7%       0.0%         1. I %
Net Income/Capital (Rtn. on Capital)                 25.1%     16.8%      19.3%     17.8%      0.3%         33.3%
Interest Expense/Total Expenses                      57.7%     64.2%      65.2%     67.1%     70.5%         72.5%
Provision Expense/Total Expenses                      0.0%      1.7%      4.6%       0.7%      0.0%           NA
Personnel Expense/Total Expenses                     18.9%     16.3%      14.1%     15.4%      13.8%        13.2%
Other Expenses/Total Expenses                        23.5%     17.8%      16.0%     16.8%      15.7%        14.3%
Interest Income/Earning Assets                       13.1%     12.3%      15.5%     13.7%      12.8%        12.9%
Net Interest Income/Earning Assets                    6.8%      5.2%       6.5%      5.6%       2.7%         3.7%
ASSET QUALITY
Loan Loss Provisions Expense/Average Total Loans      0.0%      0.3%       0.9%      0.1 %      NA            NA
Reserves for Losses/Total (EOP) Loans                 0.0%      0.3%       0.9%      1.0%       N k           NA
ReservesforLosses/AverageTotalLoans                   0.0%      0.3%       1.1%      1.0%       NA            NA
CAPITALIZATION
Capital/Total Assets (EOP)                            3.3%      4.1%       3.2%      4.0%       3.3%         3.2%
Capital/Average Assets                                3.8%      4.8%       3.8%      4.4%       3.6%         3.4%
Capital/Total Deposits (EOP)                          4.1%      5.1%       4.6%      5.8%       4.9%         4.3%
LIQUIDITY
Net Loans/Total Deposits                             60.4%     61.7%      78.4%     57.7%      61.5%        60.5%
Net Loans/Total Assets                               42.5%     44.8%      49.2%     40.1%      40.8%        44.2%
GROWTH RATES
Assets (EOP) [1]                                     34.0%     36.9%      43.8%     17.6%      22.9%        18.5%
NetLoans(EOP)[1]                                     66.5%     44.1%      57.8%      4.1%      25.1%        28.3%
Deposits (EOP)                                       370%      41.3%      24.0%     30.3%      17.5%        30.1%
Capital (EOP) [I]                                    34.2%     73.2%      11.1%     48.3%       0.0%         14.2%
Contingent Liabilities/Capital                      625.9%    398.7%    595.6%    381.4%   1093.7%        1040.9%



- 74 -
Attachment 3
Page 6 of 9
TABLE 4: UNITED COMMERCIAL BANK LIMITED
CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT - 20 LARGEST BORROWERS
Taka in Millions
Data for December 31, 1987
Facility                  % of Total           % of
Serial No.      Allowed    % of Group           Credit        Capital
1         124.5          13.8%           6.3%         107.1%
2          91.7           10.2%          4.7%          78.8%
3          84.2           9.4%           4.3%          72.4%
4           74.2           8.3%          3.8%          63.8%
5          74.0            8.2%          3.8%          63.6%
6          50.1            5.6%          2.5%          43.1%
7          43.5            4.8%          2.2%          37.4%
8          31.2            3.5%           1.6%         26.8%
9           31.0           3.4%           1.6%         26./
10          30.8           3.4%           1.6%          26.5%
1 1         29.3           3.3%            1.5%         25.2%
12          66.4           7.4%           3.4%          57.1%
13          26.5           2.9%            1.3%         22.8%
14          24.2           2.7%           1.2%          20.8%
15          21.3           2.4%            1.1%         18.3%
16          21.1           2.3%           1.1%          18.1%
17          20.7           2.3%           1.1%          17.8%
18           19.6          2.2%           1.0%          16.9%
19           18.4          2.0%           0.9%          15.8%
20           16.6           1.8%          0.8%           14.3%
8c 3          100.0%         45.6%         773.3%
Total advances outstanding as at December 31, 1987:               1,970.0
Capital & Reserves as at December 31, 1987:                         116.3
DATA FOR DFCEMBER 31, 1990
Loans outstanding to 20 largest borrowers                         1,228.1
Loans outstanding to largest borrower                              281.8
Total net advances outstanding                                    3,031.6
Capital and Reserves                                               217.1



Attachment 3
Page 7 of 9
TABLE 5: UNITED COMMERCIAL BANK LIMITED
Taka in Milions
Term Loans by Sector
1985            1986            1987                1988
Sub-sector               Industry                   New  BMRJE   New  BMRJE   New  BMRIE   New                 BMRJE
Textile                     Garments                           3.9            11.7
Power looms                                                        0.6
Others                                             2.8
Plastics                    Motlding                                                                           2.3
Shipping                    Small cargo vessels                2.9                             4.0
Ceramic                     Bricks                                     18.0
Porcelain                                                                                      57.3
Sted & Engineering          O.P. Sheet                        9.0                                             75.0
Food                        Edible oil                                                                        21.3
Snrvices                    Clinic                                                                             9.6                                  .n
Miscellaneous               Newspaper                                                                          3.5
Photography lab.                                  2.1
Sports shoes                                      2.7
Partex board                                                                2.7
TOTAL    15.8    18.0   19.3        0.0    4.6       2.7  111.7         57.3
TOTAL NEW & BMR/E                         33.8             19.3             7.3               169.0
Term Loan Volume by Maturity:                                  Taka in Milions
YEAac:                                     1984   1985    1986   1987    1988
Short-term (I - 3 years):                             14.7   33.8    19.2    7.3    30.9
Mediurm4erm (3 - 5 years):                                                           138.1
Long-crm (5 years & over):
TOTAL                     14.7   33.8    19.2    7.3   169.0



Attachment 3
Page 8 of 9
TABLE 6: UNITED COMMERCIAL BANK LIMITED
Taka in Millions
Working Capital Loans by Sector
Sub-sector             Industry                     1981       1985      1986       1987       1988           1989
Textile               Power looms                           1.5                                                      NA
Engineering           Work shop                                                                       0.5           NA
Ship scrapping                      10.3       61.6       2.0       29.9      86.6            NA
Electrical                                                                     4.0            NA
Food                  Soft drinks                                                                   120.0            NA
Miscellanecus         Steel sheet marnufacture                                                                       NA
Photography lab.                                          0.5                                 NA
Spoils shoes                                                         2.5                      NA                                 <
Ceramics                                                                      32.5            NA                                 a
TOTAL         11.8      61.6        2.5      32.4      243.6            NA



Attachment 3
Page 9 of 9
TABLE 7: UNITED COMMERCIAL BANK LIMITED
Taka in Milions
PROJECT PIPELINE, June 30, 1990
Serial                                         Term Loan            Working  * Other   Grand        Loans
Number         Type of Project       Type    F.Cy.   L.Cy.   Total  Capital Facilities   Total    Required
I    - Liquid sugar refining    NEW       310.9    82.2   393.1   100.0   300.0   793.1          684.0
2    - Cotton spinning          NEW        44.1   161.6   205.7    42.5       0.0   248.2        120.0
3     River launches            NEW         0.0      3.0     3.0      0.0     0.0      3.0         3.0
4    - Photograpy laboratory    NEW          1.3     0.3      1.6     0.0     0.0      1.6         1.6
4    -Photograpy laboratory     NEW          I 0     0.1     1.1      0.0     0.0      1.1         1.1
6    - Razor blade manufacture  NEW         9.4      3.5    12.9      0.5     0.0    13.4         13.4
7    - Ceramics                 NEW         0.0    :8.7    38.7    70.0       0.0   108.7        108.7
8    -Garments                  NEW         0.0      1.2     1.2      0.2     2.0      3.4         3.4
TOTAL                      366.7   290.6   657.3   213.2   302.0  1,172.5         935.2
4 Letter of Credit Facilities



- 78 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of4 4
BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Industrial Promotion and Development Company of Bangladesh Limited
Structure, Operations and Policies
Structure and Operations
1.1         The Industrial Promotion and Development Company of Bangladesh
Limiited (IPDC) is a joint venture between the GoveLnment of Bangladesh (GOB)
with a 30% shareholding, the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) 17.52;
the International Finance Corporation (IFC) 17.5?; DEG (Deutsche Investitions-
und Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH) 17.5X; and the Agha Khan Fund for Economic
Development (AGFED) 17.52. It began with a total equity of US$8.0 million.
1.2         The Company has been in operation since 1983; its first
disbursement was made in 1985. The Company was originally envisaged as an
equitylventure capital financier. Experience has led to a re-evaluation of
objectives and the Company now also provides debt. The volume of total
financing (debt plus equity) for any single venture is restricted to 30X of
its paid-up capital. Debt financing was introduced to induce some cash flow,
as returns on equity financing take a long time to materialize. The Company
is withdrawing from direct equity financing and moving into bridge financing
(loans to prospective issuers of stock to be repaid from the proceeds of the
issue) in an effort to increase the turnover of its portfolio.
1.3         IPDC has four foreign directors representing its international
investors and two from GOB: The Secretary of Industries (who is the Chairman
of the Company) and one from the Ministry of Finance. There are also two
private sector representatives on thte board, one nominated by the foreign
directors and one by GOB. Policy is the prerogative of the foreign
shareholders. The Company is headed by a Managing Director, currently an
expatriate from CDC. The Company's organization structure is shown in
Attachment 5 (Page 1 of 8).
1.4         Paid-up capital stood at Tk. 90 million and the share premium
account at Tk. 34 million in 1990, with reserves (excluding loan loss
reserves) of Tk. 73 million and retained profits accumulated of Tk. 71
million. These reserves and the accumulated retained earnings reflect mainly
exchange gains on foreign currency bank balances held abroad rather than
profits from operations. Equity and loan loss reserves brought total capital
and reserves to Tk. 278 million at the end of 1990. The Company's equity
constitutes its sole operating fund, as there is no term debt on its balance
sheet. Management has indicated that it was considering gearing the Company
with some local currency debt to arrive at a weighted average cost of funds of
12.5?, enabling a minimum gross spread of 3Z on term lending.



- 79 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
1.5         Net investments in Bangladesh are increasing.  At Tk. 91.0 million
in 1989, they accounted for a third of available resource while in 1990 they
increased to Tk. 171 million, or almost half of total assets. The bulk of the
Company's assets have been held in the form of bank balances in London.
However, the bulk of those funds cover commitments already made by IPDC.
Disbursements are slow - many projects in Bangladesh have a gestation period
of more than four years between finalization of the financing package and
start-up. As disbursements occur, funds are drawn from abroad for investment
in Bangladesh. The Company's current list of approved projects and fund
disbursements are in Attachments 5 (Pages 5 and 6 of 8; Page 8 of 8,
respectively). The Company is independent in its policies and conservative in
its investments. IPDC lends in US dollars whenever possible. Its Taka loans
art funded by local borrowing; primarily from the banking group that holds its
dollar deposits offshore. These deposits are used to secure IPDC's local
borrowing.
1.6         IPDC is diversifying its operations to include more term financing
and to enhance its advisory/agent and merchant banking capacities. Management
believes that the Company can increase its fee-based income in these areas.
The advisory role envisaged relates to project identification, appraisal,
design and implementation; arranging consortia and providing services such as
integrated accounting procedures and packages for subprojects.
Policies
1.7         The Company's objectives and policies are clearly defined in a
'Statement of Objectives and Policies" and regularly reviewed by its board.
The areas of diversification mentioned above are covered in the current
Statement of Objectives and Policies.  The Company's objectives are to
identify and promote viable investment opportunities and in doing so to invest
both equity and loans and to act in an advisory capacity, to promote foreign
investment and mobilize local investment, particularly from the private sector
and to encourage the development of sound management and the flow of foreign
technical skills and expertise.
1.8         The Company finances both new and BMRE projects.  Investment and
lending were originally for the expansitn of manufacturing, but now there is
some investment in and lending to the agro-based sector. The Company is also
considering diversification into mortgage lending. Investment in the service
sector is prohibited by current policy.
1.9         In order to balance and diversify its portfolio prudently, the
Company limits exposure to any single enterprise or group of enterprises to
1OZ of its net worth, and to any single industry, to 252 of its net worth.
1.10        Interest suspension policies are in line with international
standards: accrued interest that does not materialize is not recognized as
income and is reflected in a memorandum account. According to management, bad



- 80 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
and doubtful debts are not written off "-peditiously as this fosters a
propensity by a obligor not to honor obligations. However, a general balance
sheet provision of 15Z of total equity investments and 2? of loans outstanding
is made. There are no specific provisions yet.
1.11        Quarterly progress, disbursement and monitoring/supervision
reports are produced for management performance review as a matter of policy.
All loan approvals are made by the Board. The Board meets quarterly.
Investment and lending decisions are based on detailed appraisal reports
prepared internally.
Term Finance Capability
1.12        IPDC staffing was reduced markedly in the first six months of 1990
and significant changes were made in staffing structure. The Company is now
intentionally slightly understaffed, and management plans to use domestic and
foreign consultants to fill gaps when these arise. Nevertheless, IPDC has an
adequate, professional and well defined term finance capability. It could
participate in the project without any significant enhancement in it. existing
capabilities. It could supply training to other eligible institutions, and
would like to do so as a fee-generating activity.
1.13        In-house engineering capability exists, though clients are
required to submit formal feasibility studies prepared to a high standard.
These are vetted by IPDC staff and a formal pre-appraisal report is submitted
to the Board to obtain approval to proceed with appraisal.
1.14        Appraisal reports are of a high standard, incorporating deta.iled
management, technical, market, financial and ecenomic analysis. All these
analyses are well integrated and of a high quality. IPDC has a complete
project appraisal manual that serves as a guide to professional staff in their
analyses, and is being actively promoted as a driving force rather than simply
as a reference source. IPDC's appraisal reports may contain more than 1i0
pages of data and analysis, and the manual is provided in two -yclostyled
volumes.
Financiadl Perfotmance
1.15        IPDC's resources have consisted almost entirely of equity.  Equity
to total assets in 1989 was 94?, but fell to 76Z in 1990 with a call loan that
effectively financed most new investment during that year. In 1989 22? of
revenue was from operations and 77? from interer" on foreign bank balances,
while in 1990 the proportions were 40? and 60Z, respectively. This represents
a significant increase over 1985 when only 10 of revenue was from local
operations and net investments in Bangladesh accounted for 11? of equity,
equity being 99? of total assets.



- 81 
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
1.16        A major source of the Company's revenue is the effect of the
positive exchange fluctuation on its foreign currency bank balances, since its
accounts are in Taka. This source of revenue is so great that it allows the
Company to absorb the effect of a 2Z blanket provision for loan losses on
total loans outstanding and 15Z of equity investments outstanding at the end
of each financial period and still show profits. The Company is phenomenally
liquid. The return on year-end equity was 4.42 in 1989 and 3.0 in 1990,
while the return on total assets was slightly smaller.
1.17        Growth in loans and investments showed a decreasing trend from
1985 to 1988, increased sharply by 61Z during 1989 and grew by 872 during 1990
as more projects neared completion. Total assets also grew by 33? in 1990,
the largest ever, largely as a result of use of Taka call loan facilities.
The Company has paid dividends of 7.5? of paid-up capital regularly since
1987. The Company's accounts are summarized in Attachment 5
(Pages 2 and 3 of 8).



Attachment 4
Page I of 8
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION & DEVELOPMENT CO.
OF BANGLADESH LIMITED
Board of Directors
Managing Directors
Secretary |
Operation Division                        Technical Division                               Administration Division|
Head of                                  Head of                                        Head of Finance                               oD
Operations                           Technical Services                                     Administration
LSupport Staff|                                     l
Manager                 n       1 Manager   n   rCoslnc                       Data Processing  Pronnel Manager   Accountant           Legal Off icer/
EProject Promotion {1 r      nvctm        Projectc Supervisioni   Diison                Manager                                         lCompany Secretary,
Support Staff                   Manager Advisory Services                                Support Staff
Support Staff



-  83  -                            Attachment4
Page 2 of 8
TABLE 1: INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY OF BANGLADESH LTD
BALANCE SHEETS                               Taka in Millions
1985     1986     1987      1988     1989        1990
ASSETS
Cash & Bank Balances:
Foreign                                   187      184      179       187      164          164
Local                                       8        3        5         2        2           4
Prepayments & Deposits                        0         0        0        0         1           0
Accounts Receivable                            3        5        7         1        2           6
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                         199      191      192       190      169         175
Mortgage Loans to Staff                       0         0        0        0         0           0
Loan Principal & Interest Overdue             0         0        0        6         9          14
Gross Investments;
Debentures                                  0        0         1        1        1            1
Deferred Interest                           0        0        0         0        0           0
Bridge Finance Loans                        0        0        0         0       11          55
Loans                                      12       26       37        34       43          76
Equity                                     17       17        19       26       43          51
Less: Provision for Loan & Equity Loss         3        3        4        5         7          12
TOTAL NET INVESTMENTS                        26        41       53       57        91         171
Fixed Assets                                  4         4        3        4         4           4
TOTAL ASSETS                                229       236      248      256       274         364
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Borrowings                                                       0        0        10          71
Accounts Payable                                                 1         1        1           7
Proposed Dividends                                               7        7         7           8
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILrriES                      I        I        8        7        18          86
EQU!TY
Share Capital                                90        90       90       90        90          90
Share Premium                                34        34       34       34        34          34
Capital Reserve                               0         0        0        0         0           0
Reserve for Loan & Equity Loss [I]                      3        3        4         7           9
Revenue Reserve:
Exchange Gains                            102      108       55        62       62           73
Deferred Interest                                             0         0        0            1
Retained Profit                                              58        59       63           71
TOTAL EQUITY                                229       235      241      249       256         278
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                  229       236      248      256       274         364
[1] Represents 15% of Total Equity Financing and 2% of Total Loan Financing.
Source: IPDC Balance Sheets.



- 84 -
Attachment 4
Page 3 o' 8
TABLE 2: INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY OF BANGLADESH LIMITED
INCOME STATEMENTS                                            Taks in Millions
1985       1986       1987        1988       1989         1990
Bank Interest Income                            15.4       13.1       12.5        14.5       18.4         17.0
Interest From Investments                        1.7        3.0        5.6         1.8        5.4          7.4
GROSS INTEREST INCOME                           17.0       16.1       18.0        16.3       23.8         24.4
Interest Expense                                0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0          4.0
NET INTEREST INCOME                             17.0       16.1       18.0        16.3       23.8         20.4
Non-interest Income                             0.3         0.6        0.3         0.5        2.1          4.0
ADJUSTED OPERATING INCOME                       17.3       16.7       18.4        16.9       25.9         24.4
Loan & Equity Loss Provision Expense            2.4         0.4        0.4         0.9        2.6          2.6
Pcrsonncl Expense                               3.8         4.0        3.7         3.6        6.0          7.7
Other Non-Interest Expense                      3.9         5.0        4.7         4.3        6.1          5.7
PRE-TAX OPERATING INCONME                       7.2         7.3        9.7         8.1       11.2          8.4
Less: Income Tax                                0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0          0.0
NET OPERATING INCONIE                           7.2         7.3        9.7         8.1       11.2          8.4
Extraordinary Items                             0.0         0.0        0.0         0.3        0.0          0.0
NET INCOME                                      7.2         7.3        9.7         7.8       11.2          8.4
Dividends Paid                                  0.0         0 0        6.8         6.8        6.8          8.1
RETAINED EARNINGS                               7.2         7.3        2.9         1.1        4.5          0.3
Source: IPDC Balance Shects.



-  85 -                                      Attachment 4
Page 4 of 8
TABLE 3: INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY OF BANGLADESH LIMITED
RATIOS
1985      1986      1987       1988      1989         1990
PROFITABILITY & EFFICIENCY
Interest Income/(EOP) Total Assets              7.4%      6.8%      7.3%       6.4%      8.7%         6.7%
Interest Expense/(EOP) Total Assets             0.0%      0.0%      0.0%       0.0%      0.0%          1.1%
Net Int. Income/(EOP) Total Assets              7.4%      6.8%      7.3%       6.4%      8.7%         6.5%
Non-Interest Income/(EOP) Assets                0.1%      0.3%      0.1%       0.2%      0.8%         5.6%
Provision Expense/Total Assets                  1.0%      0.2%      0.1%       0.3%      0.9%         0.7%
Personnel Expense/Total Assets                  1.7%      1.7%       1.5%      1.4%      2.2%         2.1%
Non-Interest Expense/Total Assets               1.7%      2.1%       1.9%      1.7%      2.2%         4.0%
Pre-Tax Operating lncome/Total Assets           3.1%      3.1%      3.9%       3.2%      4.1%          2.3%
Net Operating Income/Total Assets               3.17%     3.1%      3.9%       3.2%      4.1%         2.3%
Net Income/Total Assets (ROA)                   3.1%      3.1%      3.9%       3.1%      4.1%          2.3%
Net Income/Capital (Rtn. on Capital)            3.2%      3.1%      4.0%       3.1%      4.4%          3.5%
MARGIN ANALYSIS
Interest on Deposits/Earning Assets             6.9%      5.8%      5.2%       5.9%      7.2%         4.8%
Investment Interest Income/Earning Assets       0.8%      1.3%      2.3%       0.8%      2.1%         2.1%
Interest Expense/Earning Assets                 0.0%      0.0%      0.0%       0.0%      0.0%          1.1%
Net Interest Income/Earning Assets              7.7%      7.1%      7.6%       6.7%      9.3%         5.8%
ASSET QUALITY
Provision Expense/Total Investments             9.1%      0.9%      0.7%       1.6%      2.8%          1.4%
Reserve for Losses/Total Investments            9.1%      6.7%      5.8%       7.1%      7.2%         5.3%
CAPITALIZATION
Capital/Assets (EOP)                           99.7%     99.6%     96.9%      97.1%     93.6%        76.4%
Capital/Assets (EOP)                           99.7%     99.6%     73.6%      74.1%     70.4%        42.3%
Dividends [%]                                   0.0%      0.0%      7.5%       7.5%      7.5%         9.0%
LIQUIDITY
Net Investments/Capital                        11.4%     17.3%     22.2%      22.7%     35.6%        66.5%
NetInvestments/Assets                          11.4%     17.2%     21.5%      22.1%     33.3%        50.8%
GROWrH RATES
EOP Assets                                     20.8%      2.9%      5.2%       3.2%      6.8%        33.3%
EOP Net Investments                           142.2%     55.9%     31.u%       5.8%     61.1%        103.3%
EOP Capital                                    20.6%      2.8%      2.4%       3.3%      2.9%          8.6%



- 86 -
Attachment 4
Page 5 of 8
TABLE 4: INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY OF BANGLADESH LTD.
LIST OF APPROVED PROJECTS
Taka Millions
F.Cy Loan        L.Cy. Loan   Bridge      Total
Approved up to June 30, 1989  Equity  US$ mil.      Tk.    Tk.       Loan Tk.      Tk.
MonoCeramics                  0.000      0.000     0.000      9.116      0.000       9.116
Sunbeam Textiles              0.996      0.360     8.814      0.000      0.000       9.810
Delta Tobacco                 2.140      0.202     5.064      5.628      0.000      12.832
Bangladesh Electricity Meters  7.000     0.300     7.500      0.000      0.000      14.500
Leasing Company               9.100      0.000     0.000      0.000      0.000       9.100
Padma Textles                16.000      0.234    7.200      0.000      0.000       23.200
New Dhaka Refractories       10.000      0.000    0.000      11.700     0.000       21.700
Population Planning          12.000      0.355    11.000     0.000      0.000       23.000
Bangladesh Oxygen             0.000      0.750    23.325     0.000      0.000       23.325
Transfer Paper                0.000      0.000     0.000      0.000      6.970       6.970
Motherhen Poultry             3.100      0.000    0.000      11.800      0.000      14.900
Standard Ceramic              0.000      0.000     0.000     0.000      24.300      24.300
TOTAL                    60.336      2.201    62.903     3S.244     31.270      192.753
IN %                      31.30%              32.63%     19.84%     16.22%      100.00%
US$ MILLION                1.862               2.201      1.180      0.965       6.208



Attachment 4
Page 6 of 8
TABLE 5: INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY OF BANGLADESH LIMITED
ILiST OF APPROVED/TO BE APPROVED PROJECTS
Taka Millions
F.Cy. Loan         L.Cy. Loan      Bridge       Total
Expected Approval after JuIIe 3C, 1989  Equity   USS md.        Tk.     Tk.        Loan Tk.      Tk.
Iron & Steel                          0.000        0.000      0.000      25.000        0.000       25.000
Textile                                8.500       0 000      0.000       16.000       0.000       24.500
Glass Works                           0.000        0.000      0.000       25.00C       0.000       25.000
Haque & Company Mabcc                 0.000        0.000      0.000       18.100       0.000       18.100
Tape                                  0.000        0 000      0.000        0.000       7.500        7.500
Ceramic                               0.000        0.269      8.700       0.000        0.000        8.700
Packaging                             7.100        0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000        7.100
Spinning Mill                         10.000       0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000       10.000
Sports Shoes                          0.000        0.772     25.000       0.000        0.000       25.000
TOTAL                             25.600       1.041     33.700       84.100       7.500      150.900
IN %                              16.96%                 22.33%       55.73%        4.97%     100.00%
USS MILLION                        0.790                   1.041       2.596       0.231        4.658



- R8 -
Attachment 4
Page 7 of 8
TABLE 6: INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY OF BANGLADESH LIMITED
PROJECT PIPELINE
Taka Millions
F.Cy. Loan         L.Cy. Loan     Bridge      Total
Pipcline, January 1, 1990  Equity   US$ mR.         Tk.     Tk.       Loan Tk.      Tk.
Type of Project                                                                                            I
Plastics                    0.000       0.577     18.700      0.000       0.000       18.700
PVC                        10.300       0.448     14.500      0.000       0.000      24.800
Weight & Measure            0.000       0.000     (.000      25.000       0.000      25.000
Rubber                      0.000       0.000     0.000       0.000       5.500       5.500
Textiles                   25.000       0.000     0.000       0.000       0.000       25.000
Cotton Mills                0.000       0.000     0.000       0.000      25.000       25.000
Edible Oil Refining         8.000       0.525     17.000      0.000       0.000      25.000
Cement Factory              8.000       0.525     17.000      0.000       0.000      25.000
4 Pipeline Projects        40.000       1.235    40.000       0.000       0.000       80.000
TOTAL                  91.300       3.310    107.200      25.000      30.500     254.000
IN %                    35.94%                42.20%       9.84%      12.01%     100.00%
USS Million             2.818                  3.310       0.772       0.S41       7.841
GRAND TOTAL            177.236      6.552    203.803     147.344      69.270     597.653
IN %                    29.66%                34.10%      24.65%      11.59%      100.00%
US$ Million             5.470                  6.552       4.548       2.137      18.707



Attachmcnt 4
- 89 -                            Page 8 of 8
1ABLE 7: INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY OF BANGLADESH LTD.
DISBURSEMENT/EXPECTED DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
Taka Millions
Expected      Expected
Disbursed   Disbursemtnent  Disbursement
Approved up to June 30, 1989        30-06-89     31-12-89       31-12-90
Mono Cearaics                            8.928        0.000           0.000
Sunbeam Textilea                        10.906         1.296          0.000
Delta Tobacco                           13.257        0.000           0.000
Bangladesh Electricity Meters           16.246        0.000           0.000
Leasing Company                          6.250        0.000           2.850
Padma Textiles                          23.277        0.000           0.000
New Dhaka Refractories                  5.000         16.700          0.000
Population Planning                     0.000         0.000          23.000
Bangladesh Oxygen                       0.000         0.000           0.000
Transfer Paper                           0.000        6.970           0.000
Motherhen Poultry                        0.000        0.000           0.000
Standard Ceramic                        0.000        24.300           0.000
China Bangladesh Iron & Steel            0.000        0.000          25.000
Sreepur Textile                          C.000        0.000          24.500
Bengal Glass Works                       0.000        0.000          25.000
Haque & Company                          0.000        18.100          0.000
M.M. Tape                               0.000         0.000           7.500
Bengal Fine Ceramic                      0.000        8.700           0.000
Eastern Packaging                       0.000         7.100           0.000
Dhaka Spinning Mill                      0.000        0.000          10.000
Meenhar Sports Shoes                     0.000       25.000           0.000
Plastic Bangla                           0.000        0.000          18.700
Wavin Bangladesh                         0.000        0.000           0.000)
Weight & Meassure                        0.000        0.000          25.000
Haque Rubber                             0.000        0.000           5.500
Silver Carp                             0.000         0.000          25.000
Quasem Cotton Mills                     0.000         0.000           0.000
Edible Oil Refining                      0.000        0.000          25.000
Cement Factory                           0.000        0.000           0.000
4 Pipeline Projects                      0.000        0.000           0.000 GRAND TOTAL
TOTAL            Tk.          83.864       108.166        217.050        409.080
USS mi       2.632         3.338          6.699          12.669
Hieads of Disbursement
Equity                                  36.851        12.100         66.350        115.301
% of Total                                44%           11%             3i%            28%
F.Cy. Loan                              32.457       34.996          46.700        114.153
% of Total                                39%           32%             22%            28%
L.Cy. Loan                              14.556       29.800          91.000        135.356
% of Total                                 17%          28%             42%            33%
Bridging Loan                            0.000       31.270          13.000         44.270
% of Total                                 0%           29%              6%            11%
TOTAL            Tk.          83.864       108.166        217.050        409.080
%             100%          100%           100%            100%



- 90 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 9
BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Subloan Portfolio Analysis
1.        The project has been designed to promote better pricing practices
in PCIs by including reporting arrangements which will enable the PCIs, GOB
and IDA to calculate periodically the extent to which project activities are
profitable for the PCIs. The reporting format for these calculations is given
in this Annex. At the outset the data will consist largely of projections of
subloan performance, but as time goes on actual data will replace estimates.
2..       The project's financial impact on each participating credit
institution (PCI) is based on transactions involving project funds recorded in
separate subloan accounts on the PCI's books. From these net present value
(NPV) and residual net worth (RNW) are calculated to measure the project's
impact on a PCI. Both indicators are positive in a successful project. This
Annex explains how subloan portfolio data and other relevant statistics may be
organized to calculate NPV and RNW.
3.        This analysis quantifies PCI disbursements to subborrowers,
reimbursements to PCIs from project funds, debt service received by PCIs from
subborrowers, and PCIs' debt service payments on project funds.  Analytical
convenience favors dividing the quantification of project impact on a PCI into
two major components.  The first, required under the project and the subject
of the tables in this Annex, consists of portfolio analysis that traces the
impact of loan and subloan flows alone. The second, which is optional for the
PCIs, completes the analysis by adding overhead costs and other project
operating costs and revenues. The results of these components can be
summarized in project balance sheets, income statements, and sources and uses
of funds statements for project activities as they appe r on the books of the
PCIs. In effect, the analysis treats project activity as a profit center in
accounting and managerial terms, or as a shell subsidiary.
Portfolio Analysis
4.        Portfalio analysis shows the flows generated by project loan and
subloan terms and performance. It permits evaluation of PCI gain or loss from
the purely financial aspects of its project role, which consists of borrowing
project funds and lending them, before considering operating expenses and
expenses of or revenues from any other project activities the intermediary
undertakes. Portfolio analysis is conducted in two steps. The first
quantifies the flows between the PCI and subborrowers, and the second
quantifies transactions between the PCI and the suppl.Ler of project funds.



- 91 -
ANNEX. 5
Page 2 of 9
5.        Transactions between the PCI and subborrowers consist of
disbursement of project subloans by the PCI and collection of subloan
principal and interest from subborrowers. Tables 1 to 4 summarize these flows
and show the behavior of subloans over the life of the project. Table 1 shows
subloan commitments and disbursements. Table 2 presents subloan principal
flows for each year of the project's life. Its bottom line shows principal
collections, Table 3 shows subloarn principal amounts outstanding based on the
flows quantified in the previous table. Table 4 lists subloan interest flows.
These tables are analytical building blocks that relate collections, the
situation at the opening of each accounting period, and summaries of
transactions for each period.
Presentational Conventions
6.        Tables 1-6 contain sevetal features requiring explanation.  First,
the tables contain only five data columns to simplify presentation in this
Annex. The actual exercise may require more than 20 columns. For example, a
five-year disbursement period and a ten-year loan term require 15 columns to
accommodate ten-year loans made in project year five and several more to
record the recovery of arrears after project year 15. Omitting columns for
presentational simplicity also has to be reflected in rows. More would have
to be added to accommodate commitments, disbursements, collections and other
transactions after 1994.
7.        The tables are arranged so that the performance of each year's
cohort of subloans is separately identified by row. This assists in making
projections because trends in the performance of the oldest subloans, made in
1992 and 1993, for example, offer a basis for making assumptions about newer
subloans made in 1995 and 1996.
8.        The colunz for cumulative or aggregate figures is used to check the
mathematical accuracy of total of columns with totals of rows, and assists the
construction of summary statements for a project's life. Project life as
defined here ends at the close of the final period, during which all subloan
collections that can be recovered have been recovered, all bad loans will have
been written off, and the project loan has been fully repaid. Accordingly, no
loan principal remains outstanding in the bottom line of Table 3 for the final
year of project life. When annual da:a measure flows, the cumulative figure
is the sum of the annual figures, as for subloan commitments in Table 1. When
annual data portrays stocks, as for total undisbursed commitments in Table 1,
the cumulative figure is identical to the figure for the final year of the
analysis.
9.        Under the data column heads, the tables have brackets (  ) in which
to record indicators of data quality: audited with either a qualified or
unqualified opinion, unaudited or projected. Audited data is from accounts
that have been examined by external auditors who have provided an opinion on



_ 92 _
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 9
their quality. If the auditor's opinion is qualified (to the effect that
generally accepted accounting principles have not been consistently applied),
the nature of the qualification should be footnoted. Unaudited data has been
fully reviewed by the PCI's internal auditors and management but not yet
adjusted, if adjusted is required, by external auditors. Preliminary data has
not been fully reviewed within the PCI. Projected data are estimates of
future performance.
10.       Data found in one table are often also used in others.  References
to .Iieir original location are shown in brackets: (Table 1) refers the reader
to Table 1.
External Funding Flows and Float
11.       The second step in portfolio analysis quantifies the flows between
the PCI and sources of project funds that are external to the intermediary
(para. 4). These flows consist of the receipt of the proceeds of the IDA
Credit by the intermediary for onlending, and repayment of these funds and
payment of interest by the PCI. They are summarized in Table 5.
12.       Table 6 builds upon previous tables to identify differences in
phasing between PCI borrowing and lending under the project, and the impact of
arrears. The treatment of principal flows is intended to highlight the
liquidity generated or absorbed by arrears. The interest analysis shows the
results of the spreads between the interest rate paid on project funds and the
interest rate charged on subloans, different interest ra e term structures
including grace periods, and interest arrears. The bottom line in Table 6 is
the net impact of the disbursement-reimbursement-collection cycle. Project
Portfolio Sources (Uses) of PCI Funds shows the net liquidity position of the
intermediary as a result of financing flows associated with the project.
13.       Tha amount of reir.mbursement from the project loan is normally
different from subloan disbursements during an accounting period. A lag
between subloan disbursement and project reimbursement is notmal because of
the time taken by the PCI to aggregate subloan disbursements and prepare a
reimbursement claim, and for these funds to be transferred to the PCI. These
differences in amount and timing absorb liquidity, as indicated by "Net
disbursements funded by PCI," the third row in Table 6.
14.       Subloan disbursements usually run ahead of reimbursements received
from the project loan in the early years of the project. These disbursements
are seldom offset by net interest flows, especially when subloan terms include
an initial grace period on debt service. This creates negative "project
portfolic float" that the PCI funds from additional outside sources or diverts
from other uses. In later years the project may be a net supplier of funds.
However, subloan rescheduling reschedules the loan, but late payments do not:
the PCI has to repay the project loan according to schedule, even if



- 93 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 9
subborrowers are late in repaying or completely fail to repay their subloans,                 U
which may create negative flows at any time.
Portfolio Flows: Their Residual Net Worth and Net Present Value
15.       Table 6 summarizes the financing flows under the project that
include loan and subloan contractual repayment terms and the modifications to
them caused by arrears. These data are used to calculate the NPV and RNW for
these flows. The RNW from the financing flows is the cumulative Project
Portfolio Sources (Uses) of PCI Funds.
16.       The tPV to the PCI from project participation is determined by the
cash absorbed or released during each accounting year by project activities.
The NPV of financing flows can be obtained by discounting the annual Project
Portfolio Sources (Uses) of PCI Funds from Table 6 at the blended cost of
capital for the project activity. This cost is approximated by the weighted
average of the rate of interest charged on the project loan to the PCI and the
PCI's marginal cost of its funds absorbed by the project.
17.       Discounting portfolio flows by the actual cost of funds permits
evaluation of the lending activity on its own terms. However, the results can
be misleading if inflation is not taken into account. A program that appears
worthwhile may not be attractive in the long run if it fails to enable the PCI
to earn a return at least equal to the rate of inflation. Inflation rates
exceeding rates of return earned by a lender reduce the value of the lender's
business, measured in terms of the purchasing power of money. Therefore, the
discount rate used for NPV calculations should equal the cost of funds plus a
projected rate of inflation.
18.       Because the project's major impact on a PCI is through the
financing flows, these calculations yield a major preliminary analytical
result. They are an initial indication whether loan and subloan terms are
appropriate. They also permit "what if?" calculations to determine trade-offs
between the subloan collection rate and the subloan interest rate, for
example, that would yield a positive NPV and RNW.
Completing the Analysis - An Option for PCIs
19.       Portfolio analysis does not fully portray the impact of the project
on the PCI, and the NPV and RNW calculated for financing flows are only
partial indicators. Calculation of the overall project impact requires
analysis of the costs to the PCI of delivering and recovering subloans and
obtaining and administering a project loan. Also, the project may include
technical assistance costs, and projects may generate noninterest income from
project activities or from related (collateral) business from subborrowers.
The refinements required to capture all project-related lending revenues and



- 94 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 9
expenses and other flows tend to decrease the partial NPV and RNW of project
activities calciulated from the financing flows, because o;: the burden of
overhead expenses.
20.       Measuring a project's overall impact on a PCI incorporates data
from Tables 1-6 which ate henceforth referred to as Set 1 tables. Unless the
PCI keeps detailed records and treats the project as a cost or profit center
or as a shell subsidiary with its own financial statements, further worksheets
and financial statements must be constructed to complete the analysis. These
are called Set 2 tables. No formats are given here because several of these
are impressionistic, with more fluid formats than Set 1 tables, and because
they can be constructed by any financial analyst.
21.        Incorporating Other Project Expenses and Revenues.  Variables
quantified in Set 2 worksheets include: (a) additional financing costs of
project funds such as commitment fees where these are applied; (b) noninterest
income from charges such as loan application and ledger fees levied on
subborrowers, and letters of credit issued; (c) cash and the cost of cash
required to support lending operations and project overheads; (d) operation,
maintenance and sale of repossessed assets; (e) the cost of project supplies;
(f) capital and operating costs of project fixed assets; (g) incremental staff
costs associated with project implementation; (h) foreign exchange gains or
loss*a where the lender is subject to foreign exchange risk; and (') travel
and representation costs the PCI incur in dealing with suppliers of project
funds and others involved in project activities other than as subborrowers.
22.       Separate tables are required to derive each of these variables.
The data for some of these tables can be taken directly from project records,
while others require analytical assumptions and estimates. In all cases, the
assumptions or bases for the estimates required should be fully explained and
disclosed. Assumptions are most commonly required where joint costs are
attributable in part to project activities and in part to other PCI
activities.
23.       Staff costs are usually especially important joint costs.  For
example, a branch office may process project subloans, other loans, money
transfers and deposit transactions. What proportion of the branch manager's,
the credit manager's and the branch accountant's time, if any, should be
treated as a project overhead? With respect to noninterest costs of project
funds, for example, what portion of loan commitment fees should be allocated
to subloans and what proportion to positive project float?
24.       Overhead Cost Allocation.  Several nratural cntegories may help
organize the analysis of cost data. At the very crudest level, the PCI's
overhead costs could be allocated according to the relative size of project
operations as determined by the percentage of total assets represented by
project assets. More refined approaches would examine the sources of cost in
more detail. For example, certain project activities are undertak,en at the



- 95 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 9
PCI'. head office, while others may be cond-ucted at branches, and their
related costs may be estimated accordingly. Staff hours devoted to project
activities by employees at different salary grades provide a basts for
allocation. Number of loans processed may be used to weight costs by
organizational unit, as could the time taken to p:ocess different types of
loans, inzluding project subloans. Focussing the analysis on the incremental
costs associated with the project is generally useful. These overheads would
not be incurred in the absence of the project, and hence are clearly allocable
to it.
The Final Analysis - A Further Option for PCIs
25.       Set 1 and Set 2 tables permit construction of project financial
statements, consisting of annual balance sheets, income statements and sources
and uses of funds statements. These financial statements can be analyzed
using the customary tools uf financial reporting and management. Their
contents are noted below. They should contain the fullest possible disclosure
through account headings, footnotes and other notes and text, especially with
regard to arrears and bad debt losses. Where project life has not yet ended,
the analysis should present and evaluate actual data and make projections to
cover the remaining years.
26.       Traditional project analysis often omits the balance sheet, income
statement, and sources and uses of funds statement, and instead relies on
"cash flow' tables to derive the net benefit stream for rate of return
analysis.  The project NPV and RNW could of course be quantified using the
"cash flow' statement, and this technique was used in Set 1 tables to derive
the partial NPV and RNW from the financing flows. However, the temptation to
use the "cash flow" approach should be resisted in the fin&l analysis for
three reasons:
(a) Inclusiveness: The balance sheet, income statement and sources and
uses statement are constructed by a methodology that is most
conducive to identifying all relevant financial scocks and flows in
a credit project. The "cash flow"' approach easily omits the impact
of changes in certain balance sheet accounts.
(b) Conceptual accuracy: The relationship among the balance sheet,
income statement and sources and uses statement ensures that all
items must be treated consistently. Debits and credits cannot be
confused, so the direction of all flows is accurately shown.
(c) Mathematical accuracy: The balance sheet, income statement and
sources and uses statement must reconcile. The 'cash flow"
methodology has no internal check.



- 96 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 9
27.       Project Assets.  The assets on the project balance sheet would
normally consist primarily of the following accounts:
(a) Cash and near cash held to support project activities. The size of
these balances would generally be related to the volumne of subloans
committed but not yet drawn by subborrowers, and of funds to
service the project loan, pay staff and cover incidentals.
Assumptions used to foreLast the cash requirement should be
disclosed.
(b) Loans outstanding to project subborrowers. This is normally the
major asset during most of the life of a credit project. Subloans
outstanding should be disaggregated as principal not yet due and
principal in arrears, interest accrued and interest in arrears.
Term loan balances are customa3rily broken down into a current
portion consisting of amounts falling due within 12 months, and a
long-term portion falling due after 12 months.
(c) Bad debt allowance (a contra-asset account) for project subloans,
with a footnote or other explanation of how its size is determined
and of the basis on which this valuation reserve is credited and
debited.
(d) Miscellaneous project assets if any. If these include fixed
assets, accumulated depreciation should be shown as a contra-asset
account. Other assets arising from or required for project
implementation may include minor receivables, inventories of
supplies, and .epossessed assets.
28.       Project Liabilities.  The project balance sheet normally contains
the following liability accounts:
(a) Administrative and staff expenses accrued, representing project
overhead.
(b) Miscellaneous liabilities, such as deposits placed by subloan
applicants in fulfillment of down payment requirements, for
example.
(c) Accrued interest expense on the project loan, with any overdue
portion broken out.
(d) The balance outstanding on the project loan, broken down to show
the current portion due within the next 12 months, the noncurrent
portion due beyond the next 12 months, and overdues, if any, of
project loan principal.



- 97 -
ANNEX
Page 8 of
29.       Project Net Worth.  The net worth accounts of the project normally
consist of equity contributed by the intermediary out of its own resources,
retained earnings or losses, and subloans. gains or losses from changes in the
PCI's foreign exchange exposure, if any, on TL. dollar subloans. The equity
contributed by the intermediary is an important variable, arising from start-
up expenses incurred before project funds become available and from the
reimbursement method of financing subloan disbursements. This contribution is
risk capital, representing the PCI's commitment to bear losses from bad debts
and operations, if these occur.
30.       Risk capital committed by the PCI is not necessarily contributed in
one big block, but simply through project operations. For example, cash is
required to fund the negative float when subloan disbursement begins.
Likewise, the PCI incurs expenses generating loans before interest income is
earned.  In other words, the PCI's equity contribution to the project finances
the negative float in the early years of many credit projects.
31.       Negative float should disappear as projects age.  They ideally
become net generators of cash as collections from subborrowers exceed
operating expenses and debt service on the project loan. The assumption
applied to project net worth accounts for this analysis is that the
intermediary taps any net positive funds flows to recoup and retire its own
equity investment in the project and then to build up c sh and retained
earnings on the project balance sheet. The final prc.--t balance sheet
ideally consists of one asset (cash), no liabilities, and net worth consisting
of retained earnings equivalent to cash.
32.       Project Income and Expense.  The income statement for the project
activity should show interest earned on project subloans; other income such as
subloan application fees and legal fees; interest expenses; c mitment fees
earned on subloans or incurred on the loan; the bad debt provision, preferably
disaggregated into accounts arising from disbursements of principal and from
interest earned; and starf costs and administrative expenses. The income
statement should not stop with net profit, but permit transparent derivation
of the funds flow statement by showing "below the line" items that change
project net worth. These include capital contributions or withdrawals by the
intermediary as well as net project profit after tax and any other changes in
project net worth.
33.       The first income statement should record expenses before project
funds are available to fund loans that generate revenue. These include
development expenses incurred to obtain the loan from the donor or government.
Likewise, the opening balance sheet should show these expenses concributed by
the PCI as a charge to net worth, offset by equity.
34.       Constructing the Sources and Uses of Funds Statement.  The format
for the sources and uses of funds statement is flexible. The bottom line of
the sources and uses statement shows changes in cash, which are discounted to



- 98 -
ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 9
obtain the net present value of the project to the PCI. The discount factor
is determined by the cost of project funds to the PCI. The cost of funds in
the final analysis is the weighted average of the y'eld equivalent of
commitment fees, up-front expenses and interest paid by the PCI on the project
loan, and of the PCI's marginal cost of funds from sources other than the
project loan. This is a more refined measure than the simple cost of funds
applied to the portfolio flows which gave a useful first approximation. The
yield equivalent is a discount rate that provides the same NPV over the life
of the loan as the combination of fees, charges and interest due as specified
in the loan agreement, discounted at the rate of interest charged on the 'oan.



Attachment 5
Page I of 6
BANGLADESH: PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
PCI PROJECT PORTFOLIO FLOWS AND VALUE
Table 1: Project Subloan Commitments and Disbursements
(Taka in Lakhs)
FINAL
COMMITMENTS AND                  Year:    1992    1993    1994   YEAR
DISBURSEMENTS                 Data: /a   ( )      ( )      ( )      ( )   CUMULATIVE
Subloan commitments                                                              xxx
Subloan disbursements of 1992 commitments                                       xxx
Subloan disbursements of 1993 commitments            xxx      __ _             xxx
Subloan disbursements of 1994 commitments            xxx      xxx              xxx
Disbursements for the period
Undisbursed amounts committed in 1992
Undisbursed amounts committed in 1993                xxx
Undisbursed amounts committed in 1994                xxx      xxx
Total undisbursed commitments
la P=Projected, U =Unaudited, AU =Audited with UnqualifGed Opinion, AQ=Audited with Qualified Opinion
(Use this footnote to explain the relationship between subloan commitmerts and subloan disbursemncats. How long is the
disbursement lag?)
xxx No meaningful data



Aitachment 5
Pa-c 2 of 6
BANGLADESII: PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDiT PROJECT
PCI PROJECT PORTFOLIO FLOWS AND VALUE
Table 2: Project Subloan Principal Flows
(Taka in Lakhs)
FINAL
COMMITMENTS AND                    Year:      1992      1993      1994    YEAR
DISBURSEMENTS                    Data: /a    ( )       ( )      ( )       ( )    CUMULATIVE
Subloan disbursements of
1992 commitments (Table I)                                                                xxx
1993 commitments (Table 1)                                  xxx                           xxx
1994 commitments (Table 1)                                  xxx       xxx                 xxx
Disbursements for the period                                 _
Interest capitalized on subloans committed
in 1992                                                     xxx
in 1993                                                     xxx
in 1994                                                     xxx       xxx
Principal falling due from subborrowers /a
on 1992 commitments not rescheduled
on 1993 commitments not rescheduled                         xxx
on 1994 commitments not rescheduled                         xxx       xxx
on rescheduled subloans committed
in 1992
in 1993                                                    xxx
in 1994                                                    xxx       xxx
/a Use this footnote to explain loan repayment schedules
/b Use this footnote to list assumptions about projected collection rates
xxx No meaningful data



Attachment 5 - Table 2 (cont.)
FINAL
COMMITMENTS AND                   Year:     1992      1993     1994    YEAR
DISBURSEMENTS                  Data: /a    ( )      ( )       ( )       ( )    CUMULATIVE
Principal falling due during the period                                        - _
less: Principal falling due during the period
but no collected /b
on 1992 commitments not rescheduled
on 1993 commitments not rescheduled                       xxx
on 1994 commitments not rescheduled                       xxx      xxx
on rescheduled sulrloans committed
in 1992                                                                -             -               -
in 1993                                                  xxx       _        -         -              -
in 1994                                                  xxx      xxx
Principal falling due but not collected                     -        _         _
Collections of principal falling due during the period
Collections of principal falling due
in previous periods /b
1992                                                      xxx                -                        -
1993                                                      xxx      xxx
1994                                                      xxx      xxx       xxx
Prepayments of future years' installments received
Principal collected during the period
la Use this footnote to explain loan repayment schedules
/b Use this footnote to list assumptions about projected collection rates
xxx No meaningful data



Attachment 5
Pa-e 3 of 6
BANGLADESH: PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
PCI PROJECT PORTFOLIO FLOWS AND VALUE
Table 3: Project Subloan Principal Portfolio
(Taka in Lakhs)
FINAL
COMMITMENTS AND                   Year:    1992    1993    1994   YEAR
DISBURSEMENTS                   Data:     ( )      ( )      ( )     ( )   CUMULATIVE
Subloan principal outstanding - opening /a               -0-      -        -       -               xxx
Disbursements for the period (Table 1)                    -
plus: capitalized interest added to principal
during the period-
less: principal falling due from                                                                                             o
subborrowers (Table 2)                               _        -       _        -              -
plus: principal falling due
rescheduled to future periods
less: prepayments (Table 2)
less: loans not yet due written off
Subloan balances not yet due                              -        -                              xxx
Total falling due but not collected (Table 2)
= principal going into arrears
less: arrears written off
Subloan principal outstanding - closing /a                                         -0--            xxx
la The subloan principal outstanding at the close of a period is thc same es the subloan principal outstanding
at the opening of the following period.
xxx No meaningful data



Attachment 5
Page 4 of 6
BANGLADESH: PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
PCI PROJECT PORTFOLIO FLOWS AND VALUE
Table 4: Subloan Interest Flows
(Taka in Lakhs)
FINAL
COMMITMENTS AND                    Year:    1992   9IW3    1994   YEAR
DISBURSEMENTS                    Data:      ()      ()       ()       ()   CUMULATIVE
Interest falling due from subborrowers on:
subloan balances not yet due . able 3) /a
principal falling due during the period (Table 2) lb
principal in arrears (Table 3) /c
interest in arrears (see below) Id
Interest falling due during the period before
reschedu!ing
less: interest falling due rescheduled to future
period
Interest falling due after rescheduling
Note: Use footnotes to explain intcrest calculations on:
/a Balances not yet due                                /C
A) Principal falling due during the period            if
/c Principal in arrears                                /
/d lnterest in arears and to explain interest          Ih
collection rates                                    /i
xxx No meaningful data



Attachtmcnt 5 - Table 4 (cont.)
FINAL
COMMITMENTS AND                        Year:  1992   1~3  1994  YEAR
DISBURSEMENTS                        Data:       ( )       ( )       ( 1       ( )   CUMULATIVE
less: interest falling due during the period
but not collected on:
subloan balances not yet due le
ptincipal falling due Juring the period If
less: interest faluing due during the period
but not colected on: (continued)
principal in arears /g
interest in ar /h /b
Interest failing due after rescheduling but not
collected=inteest in arrea  (see above)
Collection of interest falling due in previous
periods fi
in 1992                                                          xxx
in 1993                                                          xxx       xxx
in 1994                                                          xxx       xxx       xxx
Collection of intetest flling due during the period
Interest collected during the period
Note: Use footnotes to explain interest calculations on:
/a Balances not yet due                                       /c
/b Principal falling due during the period                   /f
/c Principal in arrears                                      /g
/d Interest in arrears and to explain interest               /h
collection rates                                          /i
xxx No meaningful data



Attachment 5
Page 5 of 6
BANGLADESH: PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
PCI PROJECT PORTFOLIO FLOWS AND VALUE
Table 5: External Finding Flows
(Taka in Lakhs)
FINAL
COMMITMENTS AND                      Year:    1992      1993     1994    YEAR
DISBURSEMENTS                     Data:      ( )       ( )      ( )      ( )   CUMULATIVE
Generation of External Project Funds
Subloan disbursements (Table 1)(memo item)/a
Project funds received /b
External Project Funds Debt Service
Principal falling due to external source
Interest falling due to external source
Project Funds Debt Service
Project Funds Received less Project Funds
Debt Service=Net External Funding Flow
/a Disbursements are shown only for purposes of comparison with project funds received. They are not
mathematically related to other flows in this Table.
/b In this footnote state assumptions or procedures regarding access to project funds. These would frequently be provided in response
to subloan disbursement rates, wh;ch is why subloan disbursements are included in this Table although they make no mathematical
contribution to the Table.



Attachment 5
Page 6 of 6
BANGLADESHI: PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
PCI PROJECT PORTFOLIO FLOWS AND VALUE
Table 6: Project Portfolio Funds Flow
(Taka in Lakhs)
FINAL
COMMITMENTS AND                    Year:    1992    1993    1994    YEAR
DISBURSEMENTS                    Data:      ( )      ( )      ( )      ( )   CUMULATIVE
Subloan disbursements (Table 1)                              _       -        -        _ _
less: Project funds received (Table 5)                      -        -                 -
Net disbursements funded by PFI
Principal falling due from subborrowers (Table 2)            _       -        -        -               _                        .
less: Principal falling due to external source (Table 5)    -
Contractual sources of funds from term sti uctures
less: Funds absorbed (released) by:
rescheduling subloan principal (Table 3)
other changes in subborrowers' principal
in arrears (Table 3) Ia
prepayment of future years' principal
installments (Table 2)
Actual sources (uses) of hinds from principal accounts
/a Before write-offs
/b Net Prsnt Value at%  =Taka _  Lakhs
DISCOUNT RATE DFRIVATION:
(I) Interest Cost of Project !Loan _% x Weight 9   =
(2) Marginal Cost of Internal Funds absorbed by the Project -% x Weight _%  =
(3) Rate of Inflation _%
(4) Discount Rate = Sum of Weighted Average Cost of project Funds plts Iniliatiost Rate = _%



Attaclhmenit 5 - Table 6 (cont.)
FINAL
COMMITMENTS AND                      Year:    1992      1993      1994    YEAR
DISBURSEMENTS                     Data:      ( )       ( )      ( )      ( 3   CUMULATIVE
Interest falling due from subborrowers (Table 4)
less: Adjusted loan interest falling due (Table 5)
Contractual sources of funds from interest accounts
less: Funds absorbed (released) by:
rescheduling subloan interest in arrears (Table 4)           -        _                  -
other changes in subborrowers' interest                                                                                         o
in arrears (Table 4)/a                                      -        _        _        -                 -
Actual sources (uses) of funds from interest accounts
Total Project Portfolio Flows=Project Portfolio
Sources (Uses) of PFI Funds /b
/a Before write-offs
lb Net Present Valuc at _   Taka _  Lakhs
DISCOUNT RATE DERIVATION:
(I) Interest Cost of Project Loan _%  x Weight _%  = _%
(2) Marginal Cost of Internal Funds absorbed by the Project _% x Weight _%    _%
(3) Rate of Inflation _%
(4) Discount Rate = Sum of Weighted Average Cost of project Funds plus Inflation Rate = _%



- 108 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Arab Bangladesh Bank Limited
Term Transformation by PCIs
1.          An objective of the project is to lengthen the term structures of
the participating commercial banks' loan portfolios. Longer term structures
mean that the average maturity of the loan portfolio increases, which would
normally occur with an increase in term lending and possibly also with
innovations in loan terms and conditions that would enable bankers to offer
longer maturities.
2.          One means of lengthening term structures is by term transformation
(called gapping by bankers), which involves offering loans at longer
maturities than the maturities of the deposits that fund them.  Gapping is
standard banking practice in many countries. It enables successful lenders to
earn a return on the confidence they command among depositors, as longer term
loans normally command higher interest rates and a greater spread than shorter
term loans.
3.          Confidence is important, because gapping involves risk.  A
liquidity risk is that depositors may withdraw their funds faster than term
loans mature and are collected. Term loans made at fixed interest rates also
carry a pricing risk, as the cost of funds may rise while the loan is
outstanding, eroding the spread on the loan.
4.          Gapping that is too aggressive leads to illiquidity and bank
failure. This is not a material risk under the project because PCIs do little
gapping at present. In fact, their term deposits exceed their term lending,
implying reverse term transformation. One reason for this may be that the
rates of interest offered on term deposits are not fully rational, as they are
far above government borrowing rates, several percentage points higher than
the rate of inflation, and in excess of some lending rates. It is also
possible that rate-setting leadership may be exercised by the nationalized
commercial banks, and that private banks follow the market. In fact, several
private banks try to discourage term deposits.
5.          On the lending side, the maximum lending rate permitted as of
early 1992 on term loans is only two percentage points above the maximum
permitted on working capital advances. This may not be sufficient to create a
true term loan market. Lenders seem willing to roll over or renew working
capital facilities, which occurs in the normal course of business, effectively
providing term facilities but reserving more flexibility than the banks might
have under term lending arrangements.



- 109 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
6.          Provision of project funds should reduce PCIs' risks and simplify
their calculations. Project funds will enable PCIs to match maturities rather
than to gap, as the proceeds of the IDA Credit will carry approximately the
same maturities as the subloans they fund, eliminating most liquidity risk.
The proceeds of the Credit will be priced on a fixed or variable basis,
depending on subloan terr., locking in a spread over the life of the subloan
and eliminating most pricing risk. Experience with term lending under the
project, if successful, should encourage them to engage in gapping using their
own funds.
7.          This Annex contains a simple gap analysis that shows the extent of
term transformation. Data for the three commercial bank PCIs is provided as
of June 30, 1991. It would be updated at the end of June and December
throughout the project disbursement period, lengthening the tables as time
passes. The data would show the extent to which the PCIs used their own funds
to gap, testing the project's hypothesis that IDA support for developing a
term loan portfolio will lead to spontaneous expansion of term lending based
on local deposit mobilization.
8.          Evaluation of this project should also compare the performance of
the PCIs in this dimension, as indicated by the tables in this Annex, with
that of all 'private banks' as reported by Bangladesh Bank and with that of
all commercial banks. The extent to which other banks apply to become PCIs
will also be an indicator of the attractiveness of the types of behavior the
project seeks to promote.



- 11.0 -
Attachment 6
Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH: PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
TERM TRANSFORMATION BY PCIs
Arab Bangladesh Bank
(Taka In Millions)
Days                       Years
91-182  182-365      1-c3    >3-<5           5+
Fixed Deposits having original maturities>9Odays  647    550      2176      440
Term Loans
Industry                                      N.A.     N.A.       242
Other                                         N.A.     N.A.       204         -          -
Total:                                                           446
Less: Project Loans Received from IDA, ADB, etc.                     0
Term Loans Internally Funded                                       446
Term Gap                                       N.A.     N.A.    (1730)   (2170)         N.A.
Cumulative Term Gap:
This Period (t) June 30, 1991 /a             N.A.     N.A.    (1730)    (440)
Previous Period (t-1)
Previous Period (t-2)
Term Transformation Ratios
Internally Funded Loans of one year or
more/Deposits of one year or more:
This Period (t) June 30,1991 /a                                 0.17
Previous Period (t-1)                                           N.A.
Previous Period (t-2)                                           N.A.
Internally Funded Loans of three years or
more/Deposits of one year or more:
This Period (t) June 30,1991 /a                                    0
Previous Period (t-1)                                           N.A.
Previous Period (t-2)                                           N.A.
/a This table should show the Cumulative Term Gap and Term Transformation Ratios
for all periods, beginning with data for June 30, 1991 through project closing.



- 111 -
Attachment 6
Page 2 of 3
BANGLADESH: PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
TERM TRANSFORMATION BY PCIs
International Finance Investment and
Commerce Bank Limited (IFIC)
(Taka in Millions)
Days                       Years
91-182  182-365      1-<3    >3-<5           5+
Fixed Deposits having original maturities>90 days    1387  516    1634      470           -
Term Loans
Industry                                                           89       56          43
Other                                                              88       89          23
Total:                                                           177       145         66
Less: Project Loans Received from IDA, ADB, etc.                     0        0           0
Term Loans Internally Funded                                       177       145         66
Term Gap                                                        (1456)    (325)          66
Cumulative Term Gap:
This Perlod (t) June 30,1991 /a                               (1456)   (1781)       (1715)
Previous Period (t-1)
Previous Period (t-2)
Term Transformation Ratios
Internally Funded Loans of one year or
more/Deposits of one year or more:
This Period (t) June 30, 1991 /a                                0.81
Previous Period (t-1)                                           N.A.
Previous Period (t-2)                                           N.A.
Internally Funded Loans of three years or
more/Deposits of one year or more:
This Period (t) June 30, 1991 /a                                0.10
Previous Period (t-1)                                           N.A.
Previous Period (t-2)                                           N.A.
/a This table should show the Cumulative Term Gap and Term Transformation Ratios
for all periods, beginning with data for June 30, 199. through project closing.



- 112 -
Attachment 6
Page 3 of 3
BANGLADESH: PRIVATE SiWTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
TERM TRANSFORMATION BY PCIs
United Commercial Bank
(Taka in Millions)
Days                       Years
91-182  182-365     1-<3    >3-<5           5+
Flxed Deposits having original maturities>90 days  316  1020     728      470
Term Loans
Industry                                    N.A.      N.A.      277       233
Other                                        N.A.     N.A.        2        13         59
Total:                                                         279       246         59
Less: Project Loans Received from IDA, ADB, etc.                   0         0          0
Term Loans Internally Funded                                     279       246         59
Term Gap                                      N.A.     N.A.    (449)       246         59
Cumulative Term Gap:
This Period (t) June 30, 1991 /a            N.A.     N.A.    (449)    (203)        (144)
Previous Period (t-1)
Previous Period (t-2)
Term Transformation Ratios
Internally Funded Loans of one year or
more/Deposits of one year or more:
This Period (t) June 30.1991 /a                                0.80
Previous Period (t-1)
Previous Period (t-2)
Internally Funded Loans of three years or
more/Deposits of one year or more:
This Period (t) June 30, 1991 /a                               0.41
Previous Period (t-1)
Previous Period (t-2)
/a This table should show the Cumulative Term Gap and Term 1Transformation Ratios
for all periods, beginning with data for June 30, 1991 through project closing.



- 113 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Formula for Pricinu Proceeds of the IDA Credit to PCIs
1.        Fixed rate Taka funds would be provided to PCIs at a blended rate
determined from uata provided by Bangladesh Bank on "private banks'" interest
cost of funds as follows:
(a)  The weighted average interest cost of funds available for term
lending would constitute 502 of the blend. Funds available for
term lending include:
"Core' short-term deposits defined as:
2O0 of current account deposits,
25Z of deposits withdrawable at notice, and
30% of savings deposits, plus
10O% of term deposits having original maturities of 90 days or
more.
(b) The weighted average interest cost of funds would constitute 50% of
the blend. Funds are defined as:
Demand deposits,
Deposits withdrawable at notice,
Savings accounts, and
Terms deposits having original maturities of 90 days or more.
2.        Variable rate funds would be provided to the PCIs at a rate equal
to the greater of:
(a) the average interest cost of funds, as defined above; or
(b) the blended interest cost of funds, as defined above, less one
percent.
3.        Variable rate funds would be provided to PCIs when subloan
agreements or contracts specify:
(a) the index upon which repricing will be based;
(b) the formula linking the index and the subloan interest rate; and
(c) the frequency of repricing.



- 114 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
The index specified will have to be acceptable to IDA, and subloans will have
to be repriced as specified.
4.        Using Bangladesh Bank data on private banks' costs of funds for the
quarter ending on March 31, 1991, the cost of IDA funds to PCIs would be
derived as follows:
Average   Tk. '000      z    Tk. '000   Weighted
Deposit          Tk. '000    Cost         Cost     Core      Core        Cost
Demand             63,958        0          0       20Z       12,792        0
Savings           116,212      10.3?     11,970     30?      34,864       3,591
Withdrawable
at notice         43,091       4.1%      1,767     25i      10,773         442
Term              277,545      13.2Z    36.636    lOOZ    277,545        36,636
Total             500,806      l0.lZ     50,373      -      335,974      40,669
The blended cost components would be:
(a)  the weighted average interest cost of funds available for term
lending, equal to 12.12 (40,669/335,974), and
(b)  the average interest cost of funds, equal to 10.1?,
giving 12.1X x 50Z = 6.052,
and     10.1? x 502 = 5.05?,
so      6.052 + 5.05? = 11.1,
which would be the cost of fixed rate Taka funds to the PCIs from
the IDA Credit.
The cost of variable rate funds to the PCIs is the greater of this rate
less 1? (11.1? - 1.0? = 10.3?) or the average interest cost of funds
(10.1Z), and is hence 10.3:.
5.        The interest cost of funds required for these calculations would be
determined by Bangladesh Bank every six months, as of June 30 and December 31,
or more frequently as agreed by Bangladesh Bank, IDA and the PCIs. Bangladesh
Bank would provide these data not more than 45 days folloving the close of the
period for which the calculation is made. IDA would review the weights and
blend ratio every six months and, if appropriate and in consultation with
Bangladesh Bank, change the cost of funds accordingly.
If,



- 115 -
ANNEX 8
BANGLADESH: PRIVATE SECTOR INDUJSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
INTEREST RAT.E MATRIX: EFFECTIVE FROM DECEMBER 1, 1991
A. Rates on Deposits:                          Savings     8.00-11.50
Fixed     9.00-13.00
B. Rat.s of Interest on Lending:
Category                  Interest Rate  Rate of Subsidy
1. Agriculture                              li.0-15.0            0.0
2. Large and Medium-scale                    11.0-16.0            0.0
industry (Term loan)
3. Working Capital (Jute)                    8.5-11.0             0.0
4. Working Capital                           10.0-14.0            0.0
5. Jute Trading                              12.0-15.0            0.0
6. Jute and Jute goods exports               7.5-11.0             1.0
7. Other exports                             7.5-11.0             1.0
8. Other Commercial Lending                  12.0-17.0           0.0
9. Urban Housing                             11.0-14.0            0.0
10. Special Programs:
(i) Small and cottage industry             8.0-13.0            3.5
(Term Loan)
(ii) Other speeiil programs                7.5-14.0            0.0
11. Others                                   11.0-18.0            0.0



- 116 
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 6
BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Environmental Guidelines and Standards Component
Objective of Technical Assistance
1.          The objective of the technical assistance (TA) component is to
(a) develop qualitative or quantitative guidelines and enforceable regulatory
standards for industrial effluents, using appropriate reduction and treatment
technology, as discussed below, and (b) to monitor compliance with these
guideiines and standards in three industries selected by the Government of
Bangladesh (GOB). The Department of Environment (DOE) is developing such
guidelines and standards for various industries, and the TA would focus on
assisting this process according to a set of priorities specified by indusLry.
(Industry is used here to refer to a collection of firms making the same
product or similar products. In Bangladesh industry is often used to refer to
a single enterprise or firm.)
TA Content
2.          The US$500,000 to be provided under the project to the Department
of the Environment (DOE) in the form of technical assistance would include the
engagement of:
(a)   an environmental engineer competent in industrial waste
management, who would serve as chief of party,
(b)   an ecologist skilled in analyzing the effects of pollution on
natural resources,
(c)   a chemist or chemical engineer,
(d)   a resource economist to advise on the economic rationality of
alternative guidelines and standards,
and the purchase of equipment used in the analysis of industrial effluents,
and miscellaneous supplies and support materials. The terms of reference and
the list of goods and services would be agreed with DOE and processed by the
Economic Resources Division (ERD) of the Ministry of Finance and by the
Minister of Environment and Forests so that the consultants would be engaged
not later than six months after effectiveness.
3.          These consultants would be engaged on a full-time or part-time
basis from outside the Department of the Environment and its Ministry,



- 117 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 6
according to IDA procedures specified in Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants.
Pollution Control Legislation and Policy
4.          The principal legislation governing industrial pollution control
is the Envirorment Pollution Control Ordinance, 1977 (EPCO).  Under EPCO an
Environment Pollution Control Board was established, consisting of ministerial
secretaries and key GOB agency officers. The Board is empowered to:
(a) formulate policies for the control, prevention and abatement of pollution;
(b) suggest measures for tne im?lementation of its policies; (c) require
information to be furnished; (d) require reports from DOE; (e) appoint expert
committees. DOE was established under EPCO to implement the Board's policies.
5.          The Director of DOE has wide powers to control pollution by
issuing written orders to: (a) require any person or organization to adopt
measures for the prevention, control and abatement of existing or potential
pollution; (b) require information on wastes, sewerage systems or treatment
works on any industrial or other premises; (c) enter, search and inspect
private premises or land; and (d) inspect and test wastes, air, water, soil
and other materials on private property. Anyone served with an order can
appeal to the Board, and the decision of the Boasd is final. Penalties for
noncompliance include a maximum of a year in prison and a fine of up to Tk.
5000. To prosecute under EPCO DOE must provide written evidence to the
courts. Hence, DOE has sufficient legal powers to force a firm to prevent or
reduce its pollution, and it has the implied power to examine project
proposals or site plans for new industrial investments.
Environmental Guidelines, Standards, and Monitoring
6.          Expert committees established by the Board have been working on
environmental pollution standards for some years. The process has apparently
been delayed by conflicts between industrial, bureaucratic and environmental
interests, although drinking water standards have been formulated based on the
World Health Organization's (WHO) 1982 guidelines. Other standards have been
established for recreational, fisheries, industrial, irrigation and livestock
uses of water. Water purity standards are especially important in Bangladesh
because of the prevalence of groundwater and because ic is the only source of
potable water for the great majority of the population.
7.          Other standards have been developed for ambient air quality, with
primary emphasis on vehicular emissions; sewerage treatment, comparable to
European Community (EC) standards except that ten times the nitrate levels
acceptable in the EC are permitted; and emission and effluent from various
industries, comparable to Indian and WHO standards.



- 118 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 6
8.          DOE is aware of almiiost all the pollution problems that occur in
Bangladesh and of the environmental implications of urban industry. However,
there has been little monitoring of industrial pollution. River water samples
have been collected in the vic.Lnities of DOE laboratories in Sylhet, Rajshahi,
Chittagong and Dhaka, but not nystematically evaluated.  Monitoring and
evaluation of the impact of efiluents from industrial sites has not yet been
undertaken on a significant sciale.
9.          In 1986 DOE used the official Gazette to notify 903 firms, both
state-owned and private, that :hey were required within 3 years to install
waste treatment facilities or adopt other measures to control pollution.
Those notified included tanneries, paper and pulp plants, sugar mills,
distilleries, iron and steel mills, textile factories, fertilizer plants,
pesticide and chemical manufacturers, jute mills, cement factories, rubber and
plastic manufacturers and pharmaceutical firms. Little resulted, and DOE has
not aggressively followed up. Legal measures were taken against 20 firms, but
are not yet completed.
10.         The problems encountered in drafting standards, in effective
monitoring and in obtainii  punitive fines (the Tk. 5000 originally prescribed
is trivial and the current Tk. 25000 maximum is hardly a deterrent) and
corrective action by legal mieans indicate that environmental concerns have a
relatively low priority in Bangladesh.  Tb'' clearest means of demonstrating a
higher profile and priority is easily within GOB's grasp through its ownership
of many manufacturing firms.
11.         A second means to building compliance capability is through donor-
supported investments. While there is nc requirement that DOE be notified of
or screen industrial investments, more than 450 donor-funded projerts have
been referred to and cleared by DOE after ..aluation of the projects' designs
and proposed pollution abatement measures.  iPSIC subprojects would be
subjected to environmental guidelines, stanl4rds and monitoring where
guidelines and standards exist, as described n the text of the Staff
Appraisal Report. Staff engaged under the TA "'inanced by the Credit would be
expected to participate in these activities .!lated to subprojects if
requested to do so by DOE. DOE would be expectee to make such requests if it
has guidelines and standards to apply, and if for its own convenience it
wishes to use TA staff rather than regular staff for this purpose.
The Problem of Appropriate Guidelines and Standards
12.         In addition to the bureaucratic, political and industrial problems
of obtaining effective control of industrial pollution in Baiigladesh, there is
also a problem of standards. How clean is clean enough and at what cost?
What objectives should guide the development of environmental standards and
their enforcement in Bangladesh?   Should international standards be applied
indiscriminantly? How can they be adapted and applied in Bangladesh? What



- 119 
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 6
are the economic imnlications of pollution and of the costs of its reduction
and control? There are no easy answers to these questions, and the costs of
doing nothing or of doing the wrong thing may be quite significant. But, a
reasonable approach is to proceed incrementally and to benefit from pollution
control work done elsewhere.
13.         The pollution control strategy specified by IDA under this Project
has two options. The first is to apply locally-developed guidelines and
standards wherever these exist. Where these do not exist, the best practical
technology (BPT) concept, also referred to as "best practical means," should
be used to monitor effluents from the three industries to be selected by GOB
and to PSIC subprojects. BPT means that recommended guidelines and regulatory
statndards address the pollution potential of effluents and the effectiveness
of current best practical treatment technology. (This is not to be confused
with the state-of-the-art "Best Available Control Technology" or BACT, which
is more costly and complex and hence more difficult to implement.) An
important function of specialists engaged under the TA component would be to
identify and promote BPT for environmental protection in Bangladesh.
14.         The removal of pollutants from air and water and in the form of
solid waste should be as complete as can be achieved by BPT. There are a host
of industrial effluent limitations for existing industrial processes that have
been published by professional, governmental and international sources. These
standards can relate to the discharge of industrial effluent to sewers and to
the discharge of sewage and industrial effluent into surface water, the
discharge of effluents into the air, and to solid waste treatmnent and
disposal. These standards are available for use by DOE in adopting and
issuing uniform emission and effluent standards, either as legal requirements
or as guidelines.
15.         Key references for the establishment of BPT guidelines and
standards include:
Environmental Guidelines, Environment Department, The World Bank,
Washington, DC September 1988. This source contains references to
documents containing guidance published by the USEPA (United
States Environmental Protection Agency) published guidance
documents for effluent limitations for various industries and will
serve as a the basic reference for the TA component of this
proiect.
Occupational Health and Safety Guidelines, Environment Department,
The World Bank, Washington, DC, September 1988. These are also
required as part of any industrial pollution control package
offered by an IDA lending program.
Guidelines for Assessing Industrial Environmental Impact and
Environmental Criteria for the Siting of Industry, Supplementary



- 120 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 6
Volume, UNEP Industry & Environment Guidelines Series. Paris,
1982. This volume offers a significant amount of information on
the process engineering aspects for petroleum refining, iron and
steel, aluminum and non-ferrous metal production, chemical
industries, food and agroindustrial industries, and pulp and
paper.
Environment Management Guidelines, a series published by UNEP from
1982 to 1986 dealing with pulp and paper, hides and skins
industries, and mining industries.
Industrial Pollution Control Guidelines. ESCAP - Environment and
Development Series. United National Economic and Social
Commission for Asia and the Pacific, Bangkok, 1982. The
industries covered by this very good series are fertilizer
production, sugar, brewery and distillery, palm oil, tapioca,
electroplating, tanning, and fish processing. There is also an
overview volume on agro-based, agro-allied and small-scale
industries, which could be appropriately applied to Bangladesh.
Environmental Impact Assessment. Basic Procedures for Developi g
Countries, UNEP, Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific, 1988
16.         BPT has the advantage of being relatively easy to administer and
implement (although many difficulties can be expected in its broad application
in Bangladesh) because it imposes the same unit costs throughout industry for
control of pollution from a given manufacturing process. However, BPT takes
no account of the volume and location of the discharge or the volume and
nature of the receiving water or air. Uniform effluent standards uniformly
applied and enforced therefore ;esult in overprotection in some areas and
under protection in others. Hence, BPT is useful only at the initial stages
of environmental policy development and enforcement, which corresponds to the
situation in Bangladesh. Adaptation to reflect the economics of pollution
control is required as experience is gained.
Implementation Plan
17.         Effective implementation of this TA component requires that
monitoring be conducted to ensure that the air and water (and other media)
quality management systems set up are meeting objectives. The minimum
requirement, therefore, for this project is an Environmental Management and
Monitoring Plan for State-Owned Industry. The basic elements of this plan
would include:
(a)   Objectives of environmental management: The environmental
protection measures to be applied for each production phase and
industry should be listed in detail.



- 121 -
ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 6
(b)   Activities proposed and implementation schedule: The institutional
support, engineering and other technical inputs required during
implementation should be listed in detail.
(c)   Resource requirements for execution:  An equipment list, financial
and staffing budget should be drawn up.
(d)   Agency responsibilities:  Provide an organization chart and flow
chart indicating approval processes and showing how problems will
be resolved.
(e)   Environmental monitcring program for State-owned industry:  The
program should specify objective indicators for evaluating
environmental impacts and schedules for monitoring and evaluating
the implementation of environmental standards. These will permit
all interested parties, including IDA, to monitor progress toward
achieving environmental objectives. Details include statements of
the standards being applied, which standards are to be developed
and when, and their effectiveness in controlling pollution from
state-owned industry and from subprojects subjected to
environmental assessments.
18.         This Plan would be drawn up within six weeks of the engagement by
DOE of the chief of party, and would be the first task for the chief of party.
The guidelines and standards to be drawn up under the plan should be completed
within 12 months of project effectiveness. Monitoring should begin on a pilot
basis within 18 months of project effectiveness.



- 122 -
ANNEX 10
BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.          Financial and other data on the PCIs.
2.          Policy statements and business plans for term lending submitted by
PCIs.
3.           "Environmental Appraisal of the Bangladesh Industrial Investment
Credit Project, "Environmental Resources Ltd., London, October 1990.
Draft final report.



- 123 -
ANNEX 11
BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INDUSTRIAL CRED1T PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(In US$ Millions)
Quarters        Disbursement         Cumulative         Cumulative
Disbursement       Disbursement
US$ Equivalent                           %
FY93      1                   0.625              0.625                2.5
2                  0.750               1.375                5.4
3                   1.125             2.500                9.8
4                   1.250             3.750                14.7
FY94      1                   1.250              5.000               19.6
2                   1.375              6.375               25.0
3                   1.500             7.875               30.9
4                   1.500              9.375              36.8
FY95      1                   1.750             11.125               43.6
2                   1.875             13.000              51.0
3                  2.000              15.000              58.8
4                  2.000              17.000               66.7
FY96      1                   2.000             19.000               74.5
2                   1.750            20.750                81.4
3                   1.500            22.250                87.3
4                   1.250            23.500               92.2
FY97      1                   1.000             24.500               96.1
2                  0.500             25.000               98.0
3                  0.250             25.250               99.0
4                  0.125             25.375               99.5
FY98      1                   0.125             25.500              100.0



2-
INDIA
BANGLADESH
Up..ill. H-dqu.,t-                           Up-ill. B ... d.,i.S
Zillo Heodquo,te,,                           Zillo Bou,,d.,i.S
E)     D,,sio. H-dq..,tE,,,                         Dwii-  B... d.6es                  26
26'                                                                                                                Not-.1 C.pt.1                                 ImR-ti ... I 8 ... d.,ies
25'
b-
dl.-tl,
21
I  N   D                 A
D h la
Z:
23'                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
INDIA
ch 11.9-g
..... . .. ... .
22'                                                                                                                                                                                              Y,
INDIA
0     10    20    30    o    50 MILES                                                                                 MYANMAR
21'                    20      10      60       iD KILOMETERS
SRI I-A
92,
9p,                                       9



