Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2340 BD
(Private Sector Industrial Credit Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 27, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2340 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 27, 1992, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Bangladesh Bank" means the bank called the Bangladesh Bank established 
by the Borrower's Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (President's Order No. 127 of 1972) for 
the purpose of carrying out the business of central banking;
(b)
"Investment Enterprise" means a private enterprise or an enterprise in 
which private shareholders have majority ownership, and to which a Participating 
Credit Institution proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(c)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(d)
"PCI" and "Participating Credit Institution" mean a financial institution 
established or operating under the laws of the Borrower and which has entered into a 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 
(c) of this Agreement;
(e)
"Private Banks" means a statistical category of banks as used by 
Bangladesh Bank in its publication "Scheduled Bank Statistics", and includes banks 
incorporated in Bangladesh in which the Borrower has a minority holding, and foreign 
banks doing business in Bangladesh;
(f)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Participating 
Credit Institution out of the proceeds of the Credit to an Investment Enterprise for 
an Investment Project;
(g)
"Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Credit to a Participating Credit Institution 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(h)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and a Participating Credit Institution pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
any schedules to such Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(i)
"Taka" and "Tk" mean the currency of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eighteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
18,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals 
made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal 
from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1997, or such later date 
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
Page  3
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be  designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1 2002 and ending January 1, 2032. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 2012 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Governor of Bangladesh Bank, or such person or persons as he 
shall designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project or cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and industrial 
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out or cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  4
(c)
In order to carry out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall re-lend a 
portion of the proceeds of the Credit to the PCIs under subsidiary loan agreements to 
be entered into between the Borrower and the PCIs, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Association which shall, except as the Borrower and 
the Association shall otherwise agree, include those set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(d)
In order to ensure the efficient administration and supervision of the 
subsidiary loan agreements under paragraph (c) above, the Borrower shall enter into an 
agreement with Bangladesh Bank, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association, whereby Bangladesh Bank shall be given responsibility and 
authority for the administration and supervision of such subsidiary loan agreements on 
behalf of the Borrower.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and 
of each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) 
and to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources 
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
Page  5
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a change shall have been made in 
any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements without the Association's consent.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and at least two PCIs;
(b)
two PCIs have been certified in compliance with paragraph (I) (b) and (c) 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower has taken all actions required to permit banks to charge 
different industrial term lending interest rates to different clients for similar 
transactions and for different maturities, and to different industrial subsectors 
within lending rate bands specified from time to time by Bangladesh Bank; 
(d)
the Borrower has taken all actions required to widen the domestic 
currency term lending interest rate range in effect on December 31, 1991 for medium 
and large scale industry, as published from time to time by Bangladesh Bank, 
maintaining the relevant shadow market rate as the midpoint of such range;
(e)
all actions have been taken to comply with the provisions of paragraphs 1 
and 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement to the extent that such provisions are  
applicable as of the Effective
Date;
(f)
that the Borrower has commenced the carrying out of a study on additional 
administrative and legislative measures required to accelerate debt recovery after 
issuance of awards by Loan Courts; and
(g)
that the Borrower has established procedures, acceptable to the 
Association, for the implementation of paragraphs 14 and 15 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary or the Additional Secretary or any Joint Secretary, 
Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Economic Relations Division of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  6
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
   Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
 
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
Facsimile:
8802813088
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
Facsimile:
2024776391
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ Abul Ahsan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Page  7
(1)  Sub-loans under          17,920,000        100%
     Part A of the
     Project
(2)  Goods under                  80,000        100% of foreign
     Part B of the                              expenditures,
     Project                                    100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 60%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3)  Consultants'                300,000        100%
     services under
     Part B of the
     Project
         TOTAL                18,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedules 5 and 6 to this Agreement; and
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are (i) to assist in financing such productive 
facilities and resources in Bangladesh as will contribute to the economic and social 
development of the country, and (ii) to assist in the development and application of 
environmental guidelines and standards for the industrial sector.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Sub-loans
 
The financing through Participating Credit Institutions of specific development 
projects through loans to private enterprises within the industrial sector.
Part B:
Technical Assistance
 
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to assist the development of 
environmental guidelines and standards for industry by the Borrower's Department of 
the Environment, and carrying out of environmental screening and impact assessment of 
industrial processes and investment projects under this Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  8
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
Procurement Procedures
 
Goods for Part B of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three 
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part B:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall not later than July 31 in each year, commencing July 31, 
1992, until July 31, 1996 inclusive, widen the domestic currency term lending interest 
rate range for medium and large scale industry, as published from time to time by 
Bangladesh Bank, maintaining the relevant shadow market rate as the midpoint of such 
range.
2.
The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to calculate, not less than every six 
months, and thereafter publish, the weighted average cost to Private Banks of fixed 
deposits having original terms of maturity of 90 days or more.
3.
The Borrower shall not establish interest rate controls on foreign currency 
loans issued in Bangladesh.
4.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
not later than six months after the Effective Date, furnish to the 
Association for comments the recommendations of the Study on additional administrative 
and legislative measures required to accelerate debt recovery after issuance of awards 
by Loans Courts; and
(b)
not later than six months after receipt of the Association's comments 
under paragraph 4 (a) above, take such administrative and legal measures as are 
necessary to implement the recommendations of the study including, if necessary, the 
submission of draft legislation for parliamentary consideration.
5.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
 
(a)
not later than six months after the Effective Date, employ consultants to 
assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the Project;
(b)
not later than twelve months after the Effective Date, furnish to the 
Page  9
Association for comments, draft industrial sub-sector specific environmental standards 
and guidelines covering at least three major industries; and
(c)
not later than eighteen months after the Effective Date, take action to 
monitor, analyze and record, on a trial basis, emissions from selected enterprises 
from among the three industries with reference to the draft guidelines and standards 
so developed in (b) above.
6.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for approval, any forms developed by the Borrower's Department of the 
Environment to obtain environmental information required for Investment Projects.
7.
After commencing to participate in the Project, each PCI shall continue to 
satisfy the eligibility criteria specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement which shall 
be monitored semiannually and modified if appropriate by mutual agreement of the 
Borrower and the Association. If any PCI fails to satisfy the specified criteria, the 
Association reserves the right to suspend Sub-loan authorizations under the Project in 
respect of such PCI until it has taken specific steps to address its problems in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Eligibility Criteria for PCIs and
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
of Subsidiary Loans
Eligibility Criteria for PCIs
The following are criteria to be complied with by a financial institution before 
it is eligible to participate and to maintain its participation in the Project:
(I)
Domestically chartered deposit-taking financial institutions:
 
(a)
in operation for at least five years;
 
(b)
(i) Compliance Section 13 (3) of the Bank Company Act 1991 regarding 
capital adequacy requirements; or (ii) adoption of a plan and timetable, acceptable to 
the Association and Bangladesh Bank, for achieving such level of capitalization;
(c)
(i) Total accumulated provisions and suspension of interest as of 
December 31, 1989, and each subsequent year-end, equal to 100% of provisions and 
suspension of interest required by Bangladesh Bank in accordance with the Banking 
Control Department Circular No. 34 dated November 16, 1989; or (ii) adoption of a plan 
and timetable, acceptable to the Association and Bangladesh Bank, for achieving such 
requirement;
(d)
Any financial institution which is not in compliance with sub-paragraphs 
(b)(i) and (c)(i) above shall achieve a return on total assets of at least 0.5% after 
declaration of dividends and annual incremental provisions for overdue and doubtful 
principal and interest for the most recently completed financial year (excluding the 
1989 financial year);
(e)
Audited annual financial statements, prepared by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association, stating an opinion acceptable to the Association, not 
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, except that the 1989 and 1990 
reports shall be presented to the Association as an initial condition of 
participation; and
(f)
Maintenance of policies allowing for profitable industrial term lending 
and acceptable levels of collection, bad debt expense and capital adequacy.
(II)
Foreign financial institutions:
 
(a)
Overall financial soundness, satisfactory to the Association;
 
(b)
Operations in Bangladesh shall comply with Section 13 (4) of Bank Company 
Act 1991; and
(c)
Compliance with the criteria set forth in paragraph (I) (a), and (c) 
through (f) above.
(III)
Non-deposit taking development finance institutions:
Page  10
(a)
Maintenance of a capital-to-assets ratio of at least 25%; and
 
(b)
Compliance with the substantive criteria set forth in paragraph (I) (a) 
and (c) through (f) above.
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the terms and conditions of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall, inter alia, provide that:
1.
The PCI shall conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management and in 
accordance with its Charter, its Statement of Lending Policy as adopted and approved 
by its Board of Directors, and a three-year business plan for term lending, 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The PCI shall establish and maintain procedures and operational policies, 
satisfactory to the Association, for Sub-loan appraisal, supervision and monitoring.
3.
The PCI shall, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, ensure that 
Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
4.
The PCI shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and of the PCI; (ii) comply 
with its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) achieve the 
purposes of Part A of the Project.
5.
The PCI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the PCI shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
6.
The PCI shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
7.
The PCI shall promptly inform the Borrower and the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Credit or the performance by the PCI of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.
8.
The PCI shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the 
progress of each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived 
from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting 
practices the operations and financial condition of the PCI.
9.
The PCI shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association as shall be 
necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates 
of exchange between various
currencies (including taka) used in its operations.
10.
Interest on Subsidiary Loans denominated in dollars shall be payable at a fixed 
rate on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time equal to the six-month Eurodollar LIBOR rate plus 2% prevailing at the 
time of disbursement of the Subsidiary Loan or tranche thereof.
11.
Interest on Subsidiary Loans denominated in taka shall be payable on the 
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time:
(a)
at a fixed rate to be established every six months or at such other 
intervals agreed with the Borrower equal to the aggregate of:
(i)
the weighted average interest cost of the deposit liabilities of 
Private Banks; and
(ii)
the weighted average interest cost of the deposit liabilities of 
Private Banks which are available for term lending, as established 
from time to time by the Association in consultation with the 
Borrower;
Page  11
such aggregate to be calculated using weighted proportions to be established from time 
to time by the Association in consultation with the Borrower; or
(b)
at a variable rate to be established at the time of disbursement of the 
Subsidiary Loan or tranche thereof, equal to the greater of:
(i)
the interest costs set out in sub-paragraph (a)(i) above; or
 
(ii)
1% less than the fixed rate set forth in sub-paragraph (a) above.
 
12.
Subsidiary Loans shall be repaid semi-annually over a maximum period of 15 
years, including a maximum grace period of four years. Prepayments shall be permitted 
at any time without penalty.
13.
The foreign exchange risk on Subsidiary Loans denominated in Taka shall be borne 
by the Borrower.
14.
Until December 31, 1993, the total amount of Subsidiary Loans to any one PCI 
shall not exceed 50% of the amount of the Credit allocated to Category (1) in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
15.
In addition to any Sub-loan commitments outstanding, a PCI may request the 
Borrower to allocate up to the equivalent of $2,500,000 of the Credit to such PCI 
against payment of a commitment fee equal to 0.25% of such allocated amount for the 
first year, 0.35% for the second year and 0.50% for each subsequent year. 
16.
When lending to an Investment Enterprise, the PCI shall ensure that it has a 
total credit exposure to such Investment Enterprise equal to at least 110% of the 
Sub-loan outstanding to such Investment Enterprise.
SCHEDULE 6
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
of Sub-loans
1.
Sub-loans shall be denominated in either Taka or dollars.
 
2.
The interest rate on Sub-loans shall be determined by the respective PCI, in 
accordance with its usual banking practices. The interest rate may be fixed or 
variable.
3.
Sub-loans shall be repaid over a minimum period of three years.
 
4.
The foreign exchange risk on dollar denominated Sub-loans shall be borne by the 
Investment Enterprise
5.
The maximum Sub-loan size, and the maximum Sub-loan amounts outstanding to any 
one Investment Enterprise, by a PCI shall not exceed:
(a)
for domestic deposit-taking PCIs, an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) 
25% of the PCI's capital, defined as paid-in capital and reserves, excluding general 
and specific provisions for bad and doubtful debts, or (ii) Tk 80,000,000 or the 
dollar equivalent at the time of Sub-loan commitment; and
(b)
for foreign PCIs and domestic non-deposit taking PCIs, an amount equal to 
Tk 80,000,000 or the dollar equivalent at the time of Sub-loan commitment.
6.
The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan shall conform to the 
amortization schedule of the applicable Subsidiary Loan except that repayment dates of 
the Sub-loan may be up to 6 months earlier than the repayment dates of the Subsidiary 
Loan.
7.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Association and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 120 days prior 
to the date on which the Association shall have received in respect of such Sub-loan 
the application and information required under paragraph 8 (a) of this Schedule in 
respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a Sub-loan for 
Page  12
which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account without prior 
approval by the Association and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier 
than 120 days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the 
request and information required under paragraph 8 (b) of this Schedule in respect of 
such Sub-loan.
8.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan to the Association for approval, the Borrower 
shall forward to the Association an application submitted by a PCI, in form 
satisfactory to the Association, together with: (i) a description of the Investment 
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization 
of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other information as the Association shall reasonably 
request.
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Credit Account in respect of a Sub-loan for which prior approval by the 
Association is not required shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment 
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of the probable 
environmental impact and of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including 
the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
The first two Sub-loans by a PCI shall be subject to prior approval by 
the Association. Subsequent Sub-loans by such PCI may be exempt from prior approval as 
the Association shall agree.
(d)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 
(a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to the Association on or before March 
31, 1997.
9.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the PCI shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and the PCI, 
including the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased at reasonable and competitive prices, in 
accordance with established commercial practices and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of 
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance 
facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality 
and the competence of the parties rendering them; and (ii) such goods and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and 
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Borrower, the Association or the PCI 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to 
be derived from the Investment Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the PCI.
SCHEDULE 7
Page  13
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(1)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(2)
The words "the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving 
of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of 
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (e) by the date specified in paragraph 8 (d) of Schedule 6 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Association shall, in respect of any portion 
of the Credit: (i) have received no applications or requests permitted under 
said Section; or (ii) have denied any such applications or requests, the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right to submit such 
applications or approvals or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as 
the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the Credit shall be 
cancelled."
