Report No. PID5673
Project Name                     Bangladesh-Health and Population Project V
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Other Population Health & Nutrition
Project ID                       BDPA37857
Implementing Agency              Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
(MOHFW)
Bhaban 3, Secretariat Building,
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Contact: Secretary, MOHFW
Date Prepared                    December 15, 1995
Project Board Date               July 1997
1.      Project Objectives. Government and donors have agreed to an
overall sector strategy within which priority will be given to
basic family health services, especially for poor women and
children, with particular attention to maternal health. The
specific objectives are to: (a) reduce maternal and childhood
morbidity and mortality, (b) reduce prevalence/incidence of
poverty-related communicable diseases, (c) reduce fertility and (d)
improve the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of health and family
planning services.
2.      Project Description. The project would have four components:
(a) a basic health services package to support interventions for
primary and first referral level care for safe motherhood and other
aspects of reproductive health, child survival and development,
cost-effective interventions against diseases causing most healthy
days of life lost, and maintain the momentum of fertility
reduction; (b) a human resource development component to
rationalize the numbers of various categories of personnel and
their skills against the priorities and tasks of the sector; (c) a
management component with a focus on systemic issues,
sustainability of the sector and intersectoral cooperation and (d)
a private sector and NGOs component to further increase their
involvement while ensuring minimum standards of quality.
3.      Project Implementation. the project would be implemented by
the MOHFW over five years, with extensive involvement from the
private sector and NGOs. UN agencies (UNFPA, UNICEF and WHO) will
provide technical assistance.
4.      Project Cost and Financing. The total health and population
sector requirements for the five years would be US$2.3 billion, of
which US$1.4 billion would be for basic health and family planing
services. The IDA contribution is estimated at US$200 million,
other donors at US$400 million, and the balance to be met by GOB.
5.      Environmental Aspects. No adverse impact on the environment



is expected from this project. On the contrary, benefits are
expected through lower population growth and improved health practices.
6.      Note. The contents of this Project Information Document are
subject to change as the project evolves and the contents described
above may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Contact Point:           Philip Gowers Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-0376
Fax No.: (202) 522-1772
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending October 24, 1997.
-2 -



