Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3101 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Health and Population Program Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  June 30, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3101 BD
                           DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1998, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated April 28, 1998, from the 
Borrower describing sector reforms that constitute the framework for improving the 
health and family welfare sector in Bangladesh, including policy, institutional, 
technical and administrative reforms (hereinafter called the Health and Population 
Sector Program) and declaring Bangladesh’s commitment to carry out such Health and 
Population Sector Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of Canada, acting 
through the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) a grant (the CIDA Grant) 
in an amount of Can$21,000,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the CIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Canada;
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Commission of the European Union 
(EC) a grant (the EC Grant) in an amount of ECU81,000,000 to assist in financing part 
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EC Financing 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EC;
(E)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of the Federal 
Republic of Germany, acting through the Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische 
Page  2
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) and the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), grants (the GTZ 
Grant and the KfW Grant, respectively) in the respective amounts of DM9,800,000 and 
DM45,000,000, to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in agreements (the GTZ Grant Agreement and the KfW Financing Agreement, 
respectively) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Federal Republic of 
Germany;
(F)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Netherlands’ Minister for 
Development Cooperation (the Netherlands) a grant (the Netherlands Grant) in an amount 
of NLG50,000,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the Netherlands Grant Agreement) entered into 
between the Borrower and the Netherlands Government;
(G)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of the Kingdom of 
Sweden (Sweden), acting through the Swedish International Development Cooperation 
Agency (Sida) a grant (the Swedish Grant) in an amount of SKr260,000,000 to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the Swedish Grant Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and Sweden;
(H)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland (United Kingdom), acting through the Department for International 
Development (DfID) a grant (the DfID Grant) in an amount of (55,000,000 to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the DfID Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the United 
Kingdom;
(I)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Pooled Funds (as hereinafter defined) be disbursed pro rata with 
the proceeds of the Credit in each Fiscal Year; and
(J)
Canada, the European Union, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, the United 
Kingdom and the Association intend to enter into an agreement (the Co-Financiers’ 
Memorandum of Understanding) making arrangements for the coordination and 
administration of the financing provided severally by each co-financier and the 
Association, and regulating certain other matters of common interest in connection 
with such financing; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through 
December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12. ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Page  3
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh established under 
Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 127 of 1972) as amended to the date of this 
Agreement;
(b)
"MOHFW" means the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of the Borrower;
(c)
"Sub-program" means the program of the Borrower in respect of the Health 
and Population Sector Program for each of the Fiscal Years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 
2003, which has been, or shall be, as the case may be, formulated within the framework 
of the Health and Population Sector Program, and which shall be reflected in an 
operational plan, satisfactory to the Association, setting forth, inter alia, the 
activities to be carried out, the policy reforms and other measures to be implemented, 
the expenditures to be undertaken and the financing to be provided under such program 
in and for such Health and Population Sector Program during each such Fiscal Year; 
(d)
"Pooled Funds" means collectively the Netherlands Grant, the Swedish 
Grant and the DfID Grant;
(e)
"Pooled Funds Accounts" means collectively the accounts established for 
the purposes of the Pooled Funds;
(f)
"ESP" means Essential Services Package, a set of health and family 
planning services which provide maternal and child care interventions in reproductive 
health care, child health care, communicable disease control, limited curative care 
and behavioral change communication;
(g)
"FY" and "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing 
on July 1 and ending on June 30 of the following year; and 
(h)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred eighty-five million five hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 185,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two separate special deposit accounts (the Category 1 Special Account and the 
Other Categories Special Account) in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of each respective 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
Page  4
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2008 and ending June 1, 2038. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2018 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, population planning, medical and public health practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Page  5
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Page  6
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower shall have failed to carry out the Health and Population 
Sector Program or a significant part thereof.
(b)
Any of the CIDA, EC, GTZ, KfW, Netherlands, Swedish and DfID Grant 
Agreements shall have failed to become effective by December 31, 1999, or such later 
date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this 
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes To the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and 
(B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso provided therein; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary/Joint Chief, Deputy Secretary/Deputy Chief, Senior Assistant 
Secretary/Assistant Secretary/Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Division of 
the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Page  7
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
672796 SETU BJ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ K.M. Shehabuddin Ahmed 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu 
Regional Vice President 
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the Pooled Funds
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Pooled Funds, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit and the Pooled Funds to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR TABLE, IT WAS DONE IN LANDSCAPE FORMAT)
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "NGO support" means provision of resources to non-governmental 
organizations in order to enable them to pursue the objectives of the Project through 
commissioning or contracting out services pertaining thereto.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  8
made in respect of (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 18,500,000, may be made out of the proceeds of the Credit on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1998; and (b) in 
respect of a Sub-program, unless such Sub-program has been approved by the Association 
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and from the 
Pooled Funds Accounts to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for 
expenditures for goods and works under contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent 
each, and consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding the equivalent of 
$100,000, in the case of firms, and $50,000 in the case of individuals, and for all 
training and NGO support, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to improve the health, 
nutrition and family welfare status of the population of Bangladesh, particularly 
vulnerable women, children and the poor, and to reduce mortality and slow population 
growth. The objectives would be achieved through a sector wide program which 
incorporates public sector restructuring and reform.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Delivery of an Essential Services Package and Other Services
1.
Delivery of an Essential Services Package including Reproductive Health Care, 
Child Health Care, Communicable Disease Control, and limited Curative Care.
2.
Provision of Hospital Services at District Hospitals, Medical College Hospitals, 
and Specialized Institutes.
3.
Provision of other Public Health Services, including control of Environmental 
and Industrial/Occupational Health Hazards, Health Emergency and Preparedness 
measures, and control of Emerging and Re-emerging Diseases; School Health Services.
4.
Carrying out of Reproductive Health programs including population education in 
the schools and family life education for adolescents.
5.
Provision of support services for the programs of MOHFW, including Behavior 
Change Communication, Human Resources Development, Management Information Systems, 
Logistics and Procurement, Quality Assurance, Facility Construction and Maintenance, 
and Research and Development.
6.
Provision of health and family welfare services by non-government entities.
Part B:
Program Organization and Management
1.
Unification of service delivery at thana level and below.
2.
Reorganization of the MOHFW Secretariat.
3.
Restructuring of the MOHFW Directorates. 
4.
Reform of the MOHFW system of financial management.
5.
Improving hospital management and decentralization of the management of service 
delivery to district and thana levels.
6.
Adoption of a pro-poor agenda, including targeting of ESP to women, children and 
the poorest.
7.
Development of a gender strategy and integration of gender equity concerns in 
all program components.
8.
Institutionalization of stakeholder participation in program development, 
Page  9
monitoring and management, and development of community program oversight.
Part C:
Adoption of Health Policies
1.
Review of the National Drug Policy.
2.
Introduction of pilot schemes to increase cost recovery for public sector health 
services and to expand the coverage of health insurance.
3.
Revision of the regulatory framework governing the provision of health services 
by the private-for-profit sector.
4.
Refurbishing of hospitals to meet the needs of women and children.
5.
Adoption and dissemination of a patient charter of rights. 
6.
Development and implementation of a framework for Borrower-NGO cooperation.
*         *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
1. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for the construction of the Health and Population Bhaban shall be 
prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Page  10
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, and works 
estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 and $10,000,000 equivalent, 
respectively, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international/national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
 Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Medicines, vaccines, contraceptives and medical supplies may be procured from UN 
agencies in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed annual procurement plan for the Project for FY 99 shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. The proposed procurement 
plans for subsequent fiscal years shall be furnished by February 28 of each year to 
the Association for its review and approval. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first two contracts under national competitive 
bidding in each fiscal year for goods and works, and thereafter each contract 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, prior to the execution of such contract the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft contract.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
Page  11
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services of specialized agencies of the United Nations for procurement of 
vaccines and, during FY 99, other goods, may, with the Association's prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
annual plan for the selection of consultants under the Project for FY 99 shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. The proposed 
plans for the selection of consultants for subsequent fiscal years shall be furnished 
by February 28 of each year to the Association for its review and approval. Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection 
plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more or procured under single source 
selection, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall timely implement an Action Plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the carrying out of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
commencing in 1999, by April 1 of each year or such other date as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree, until completion of the Project, carry out an 
annual review of the Health and Population Sector Program jointly with the 
Association; and
(b)
one month prior to such review furnish to the Association: (i) a 
Sub-program for the following fiscal year, for approval by the Association; (ii) a 
report on the Program monitoring indicators; (iii) a review of the implementation of 
the ESP, indicating progress achieved and suggesting remedial actions, where needed; 
(iv) a report assessing progress in achieving the objectives of agreed gender and 
stakeholder strategies incorporating the results of an annual survey of clients and 
providers; (v) a review of NGO participation in the programs of MOHFW and the 
coordination between the Borrower and such NGOs; and (vi) a review of the status of 
inter-sectoral programs.
3.
The Borrower shall promptly establish and maintain until completion of the 
Project a Program Coordination Cell (PCC), which shall assist MOHFW in the planning, 
monitoring and coordination of the Project and shall be headed by an officer with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall carry out a plan agreed with the Association for the 
reorganization of MOHFW and delivery of services.
5.
 The Borrower shall establish, by September 30, 1998, two separate Bid 
Evaluation Committees for works and goods with composition and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Association.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 1, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by April 1, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Category 1 set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Category 1 Special 
Account and Categories 2 through 5 set forth in said table in respect of the Other 
Categories Special Account;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Pooled Funds allocated from time to time to the 
Page  13
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $9,000,000 
in respect of the Category 1 Special Account and an amount equivalent to  $8,000,000 
in respect of the Other Categories Special Account to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and the Pooled Funds Accounts and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant 
to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $7,000,000 in respect of the Category 1 Special Account and an amount 
equivalent to $6,000,000 in respect of the Other Categories Special Account, until the 
Pooled Funds Accounts are provided with monies which, in the opinion of the 
Association, are sufficient for purposes of the Authorized Allocation.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and the Pooled 
Funds Accounts and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and the Pooled 
Funds Accounts and deposit into the respective Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
respective Credit Account and the Pooled Funds Accounts under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account or the 
Pooled Funds Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Page  14
Conditions, or from the Pooled Funds Accounts pursuant to the provisions of the 
Co-Financiers’ Memorandum of Understanding; and
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Pooled Funds 
allocated to the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to expenditures to be 
financed thereunder, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and Pooled Funds Accounts 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and Pooled Funds allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Pooled Funds Accounts 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
