                            Document of
                         The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 34755

             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
       (IDA-31010 TF-21202 TF-21438 TF-22374 TF-22699 TF-23774)

                                ON A

                               CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 185.5 MILLION (US$250 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               TO THE

    GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                               FOR A

          HEALTH AND POPULATION PROGRAM PROJECT




                          December 28, 2005

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective November 15, 2005)

                       Currency Unit = Bangladeshi Takas
                       Takas. 65.735 = US$ 1.00
                            US$ 1.00 = Takas.0.015213

                             FISCAL YEAR
                           July 1  -  June 30

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     Asian Development Bank
AIDS    Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ADP     Annual Development Plan
ANC     Antenatal Care
AOP     Annual Operational Plan
APR     Annual Program Review
BCC     Behavior Change Communication
BINP    Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project
BMRC    Bangladesh Medical Research Council
BRAC    Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA    Canadian International Development Association
CMMU    Construction and Maintenance Management Unit
CMU     Change Management Unit
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DfID    Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
DGFP    Director General Family Planning
DGHS    Director General Health Services
DHS     Demographic and Health Survey
DMC     District Management Committee
DP      Development Partners
EC      European Commission
EOC     Essential Obstetric Care
ESP     Essential Services Package
EU      European Union
FP      Family Planning
FPHP    Fourth Population and Health Program
GoB     Government of Bangladesh
GTZ     Gesellschaft fler Technische Zusammenarbeit (Germany)
HFWC    Health and Welfare Family clinic
HPPP    Health and Population Program Project
HPSP    Health and Population Sector Program
HPSS    Health and Population Sector Strategy
HPSO    Health Program Support Office
HRD     Human Resource Development
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICPD    International Conference on Population and Development

IDA             International Development Association (World Bank)
ICDDR ,B        International Center for Diarrheal Disease Research, Bangladesh
IEPS            Initiating Executive Project Summary
IMCI            Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
IMR             Infant Mortality Rate
KfW             Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (Gernany)
LD              Line Director
LMIS            Logistics Management Information System
MAU             Management Accounting Unit
MCH             Maternal & Child Health
MCU             Management Change Unit
MIS             Management Information System
MMR             Maternal Mortality Ratio
MOHFW           Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Bangladesh
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NGO             Non-Government Organization
NIPORT          National Institute of Population Research & Training
NNP             National Nutrition Project
PAD             Project Appraisal Document
PCC             Program Coordination Cell, MOHFW
PHC             Primary Health Care
PHO             Population & Health Office
PIP             Program Implementation Plan
QAG             Quality Assurance Group
RIBEC           Reforms in Budgeting and Expenditure Control
SBD             Standard Bidding Documents
SDS             Service Delivery Surveys
SIDA            Swedish International Development Association
SOE             Statement of Expenditures
STD             Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TA              Technical Assistance
UHFWC           Union Health and Family Welfare Center
UNFPA           United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF          United Nations Children's Fund
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
USD/US$         U.S. Dollar
WDR             World Development Report
WHO             World Health Organization

                              Vice President:    Praful C. Patel
                           Country Director      Christine I. Wallich
                            Sector Manager       Anabela Abreu
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Sandra Rosenhouse

                                       BANGLADESH
                            Health and Population Program Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          10
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            25
6. Sustainability                                                                27
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 28
8. Lessons Learned                                                               32
9. Partner Comments                                                              34
10. Additional Information                                                       34
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             35
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             38
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             40
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             41
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             44
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                45
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            46

Project ID: P037857                                                  Project Name: Health and Population Program Project
Team Leader: Sandra Rosenhouse                                       TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Health and Population Program Project                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-31010; TF-21202;
                                                                                                     TF-21438; TF-22374;
                                                                                                     TF-22699; TF-23774
   Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                                         Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (97%); Central government administration (2%); General education sector (1%)
                  Theme: Population and reproductive health (P); Child health (P); Other communicable diseases (P);
                            Participation and civic engagement (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/22/1996                                     Effective: 08/30/1998                07/27/1998
     Appraisal: 11/06/1997                                         MTR: 03/15/2001
      Approval: 06/30/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOB/MOHFW
                      Other Partners:      Development Partners include CIDA, DFID, EC, KFW, GTZ, SIDA and the
                                           Netherlands

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Christine I. Wallich                           Pierre Landell-Mills
Sector Manager:                 Anabela Abreu                                  Richard Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:             Sandra Rosenhouse                              Philip Gowers
ICR Primary Author:             Robert Crown and Sandra
                                Rosenhouse


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


        Background
By 1998, Bangladesh had succeeded in reducing population growth rates and total fertility
dramatically (by 50%) compared to the mid 1970s along with a similar improvement in virtually
all key indicators of maternal and child health over this period. Since 1975, as part of an informal
donor consortium, IDA had participated in financing four population and health operations
through successive structured investment projects, beginning with the First Population Project
(financed as a consortium effort by IDA, Canada, Australia, Norway, Sweden, and the United
Kingdom). Other donors participated in subsequent consortium-based programs (European
Union, Germany, Netherlands). United Nations agencies (WHO, UNFPA, UNICEF), USAID
and ADB also provided support for family planning and health programs, although frequently,
outside the purview of the Ministry of Health, Population and Family Welfare (MOHFW). Donor
assistance to the health sector has been continuous since 1975, and has been a major source of
financing of investment and operating costs (including salaries) through the GoB's "development
budget".

Initially, the focus of these operations was predominantly on family planning. However, in the
early 1990s, this widened to include other elements of family health and ultimately all basic health
services. The broadening of the focus of donor support reflected current international wisdom,
which was expressed in the 1994 Cairo International Conference on Population and Development
(ICPD). The thrust of ICPD was to improve women's health by adopting a focus on gender and
rights, and as a result, countries began to move from a focus on family planning to "reproductive
health". Concurrently, the World Bank had just completed the 1993 World Development Report
(WDR) "Investing in Health", which assessed the cost-effectiveness of various interventions, and
strongly recommended the adoption of an essential package of services as a cost-effective way to
tackle some of the most common health problems affecting low income countries at the early
stage of the epidemiological transition.

In addition, despite intense coordination efforts amongst Development Partners (DPs), operations
had consisted of numerous and fragmented interventions, often running in parallel with separate
managers, budgets and expectations. By the end of the Fourth Population and Health Project
(FPHP 1998), the GoB investment budget presented the 66 "components" of the program as if
they were individual projects. Without the benefit of an objective analysis of the situation, it was
believed that the overall aggregate operational cost (both financial and in the effort applied) of
these separate programs was higher and the effects less sustainable than if they were folded into a
"coordinated program approach", where synergies and economies of scale might be realized.

Since at least 1975, family planning in the MOHFW had functioned as a vertical program within a
separate "wing" of the Ministry, under a Director General. This was likely initially the result of
donor-led initiatives (later adopted by governments) to give family planning programs the needed
attention to bring fertility rates down. This "wing" delivered services primarily through a
community-based network of outreach workers. The health "wing" of MOHFW, was also
vertically organized, but its services were mainly provided through a clinic-based system,



                                                 - 2 -

including all levels of care. The issue of whether the structure of the MOHFW itself, organized
with two major "wings", Health and Family Planning, constrained the generation of synergies
between services, which had been under discussion since the 1979, had not been adequately
resolved by the mid 1990s. There had been at least one attempt to merge the two wings under the
FPHP, albeit an unsuccessful one.

Near the end of the FPHP, Bangladesh continued to face the challenge of improving health, as
maternal and child health continued to be poor. Unlike the rapid improvements in health status
and fertility declines experienced prior to the 1990s, these appeared to some, to be slowing down
and reaching a "plateau" in the mid 1990s. Achievements on the ground were uneven.
Improvements in family planning coverage and their resulting reductions in fertility were not
matched with equally impressive improvements in other aspects of reproductive health nor child
health. This would require increased financing for the sector, and the introduction in some
reforms in both the practice of delivering health and family planning services, as well as the
structures that support this delivery. The Bank, the donor community at large and a substantial
number of national stakeholders felt that the new operation offered an opportunity to address
these issues.

In what follows, the ICR uses the term "Program" for the overall Government of
Bangladesh Health and Population Sector Program (HPSP), including government and
Development Partner (DP) funding, and "Project" for the IDA-financed portion of this
program, i.e. the Health and Population Program Project (HPPP). The primary focus of
this ICR is to assess IDA's performance with respect to the design and implementation of
HPSP. In order to harmonize project performance criteria between ICRs and OED
evaluations, OPCS has updated ICR guidelines to include the same rating scale. However,
the ICR template has not been updated. Thus, although harmonized criteria are used in
the text, ICR tables continue to use the previous rating scale.

        Objectives
The Credit was designed to assist the Government of Bangladesh (GoB) to implement its Health
and Population Sector Strategy (HPSS) it prepared prior to project identification. The strategy
was supported by the Development Partners (DPs), including IDA. IDA's contribution to the
program was the Health and Population Program Project (HPPP, Credit 31010-BD). The HPPP
development objectives were the same as the objectives of the HPSP. Although project
development objectives were stated in slightly different ways in the DCA and PAD, essentially
were to: improve the health and nutrition and reduce fertility of vulnerable groups, particularly
poor women and children.

        This would be achieved through three means:
(a)     by increasing the coverage and quality of essential health and family planning services
through the provision of a carefully designed "Essential Services Package" addressing the basic
health needs of the population;
(b)     by introducing public sector reorganization and reform efforts to increase efficiency and
cost-effectiveness of services, and laying the groundwork for broader health reform;
(c)     by enhancing sector-wide management capacity to increase effectiveness and efficiency of



                                                 - 3 -

implementation.

The two major strategies to achieve the development objective are thus: to focus public resources
on the delivery of an Essential Services Package (ESP) that benefits vulnerable groups, and the
introduction of sectoral reforms to ensure sustainability, efficiency and cost-effectiveness
(including specifically, the unification at the upazila level and the reorganization of MOHFW at
the district level and above, improved sector management and decentralization).

The project was fully in line with Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives (CAS Report No.
14998-BD, discussed on 3/31/98) and with recommendations made in the recent WDR of 1993.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The development objectives were not revised during project implementation

3.3 Original Components:
The Bangladesh HPPP/HPSP was designed as a five-year specific investment operation,
encompassing two broad sets of activities (Component 1: Service Delivery and Policy Reform and
Component 2: Organizational and Management Reform) that included five and three
subcomponents, respectively. Program components allowed for some flexibility with respect to
the activities to be undertaken, consistent with good practice in social sector lending, allowing
details to be presented in Annual Operational Plans (AOPs) of the line departments of the
MOHFW. AOPs and their costs would be discussed and agreed each year with the DPs. Thus,
program costs were defined as "budget provisions" rather than as a costing of pre-determined
inputs for specific outputs. The detail with which each subcomponent was defined varies.
Moreover, the number and order of components varies between that in Section C, at the
beginning of the PAD, with the Detailed Description of the Project in Annex 2, and with the
description in the Credit Agreement. The format followed here is that of the Detailed Description
in the PAD. Total program cost over the five years was estimated at US$2.9 billion, out of which
IDA and other DPs (CIDA, DfID, EU, GTZ, KfW, Netherlands and SIDA) were to provide
US$532.5 million (US$250 million by IDA alone). Funds were actually pooled by IDA, DfID,
EC, Netherlands and SIDA. Other DPs provided parallel financing.

Component A: Service Delivery and Policy Reform (US$2872.3 million, or 99 percent of total
project costs).

Subcomponent A.1. Development and delivery of an "Essential Services Package" (ESP)
containing reproductive and child health care, communicable diseases control and limited curative
care (US$1624.8 million, or 56 percent of component costs). The program/project would
strengthen the delivery and improve the effectiveness of an ESP, considered most critical to
improving the long-term health status of the poor and rural populations. The contents of the
package of services and the approach to delivery were very carefully defined. Besides
fine-tuning/changing the services to be provided by agreeing to a package of services that
addressed the most important health needs of the population, the manner in which services were
to be delivered was also altered. Health and family planning services at the thana ("upazila") level
and below were to be merged, and a shift from domiciliary services to fixed site services at
community clinics for populations of 6000 was envisioned. However, domiciliary visits would be



                                                  - 4 -

continued to priority households as needed, complemented by monthly mobile services from
Family Welfare Visitors. Thus, services would be integrated at the sub-district level, that is, in
approximately 450-500 "upazilas", each with populations of between 50,000 to 300,000. GoB
committed itself to devote up to 60 percent of the health sector budget to supporting the ESP (of
which less than 50 percent would be for personnel). The subcomponent financed the operational
costs of delivering the services, including salaries, medical supplies and equipment. Upgrading of
infrastructure, construction of quarters for some medical officers as incentives to retain them in
difficult areas was financed out of another subcomponent.

Subcomponent A.2. Improving the performance of public hospitals (US$348.0 million, 12 percent
of program costs). This subcomponent sought to improve the management of public hospitals by
providing them with greater autonomy combined with local accountability, thus improving the
quality, efficiency and effectiveness of services. The latter would be done as a pilot in one Medical
College Hospital and a District Hospital. Modern management methods to improve quality would
be introduced, and health managers would be trained. Some pilot programs to introduce
cost-recovery measures. District hospitals would be upgraded and equipped to support the
delivery of the ESP. Interventions to improve the services of tertiary hospitals were limited. This
was financed through parallel support from DfID.

Subcomponent A.3 Provision of other public health services (US$9.5 million, 0.3 percent of
program costs). Improving a number of additional public health functions was also envisaged for
inclusion of various annual operating programs of line departments. These included:
Environmental and Industrial Occupational Health, Health Emergency Preparedness, Emerging
and Re-emerging Diseases, School Health, Inter-sectoral Approach, and Prevention of STDs and
HIV/AIDS. A separate project was prepared to handle Prevention and Control of STDs and
HIV/AIDS in December of 2000.

Subcomponent A.4 Provision of other health services including nutrition (US$254 million, or 9
percent of program costs). This component was intended to strengthen secondary care facilities
and nutrition services. The latter, however, were not incorporated, as a separate nutrition
operation was prepared (the National Nutrition Project).

Subcomponent A.5. Improving general sector support services and functions (US$629 million, or
22 percent of program costs). The program provided resources to introduce and modernize
additional key MOHFW services and functions considered critical in the effective provision of
ESP, and facilitating the process of integration of the two wings of the Ministry. The main
activities included:

(a)     The development of a comprehensive behavior change communications (BCC) program to
improve health seeking behavior, address knowledge gaps and misperceptions, and improve
provider attitudes to generate a client-centered focus. The program would consolidate all existing,
fragmented Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activities within the Ministry's
separate programs.
(b)     Integrate and strengthen Family Planning and Health Management Information Systems
(MIS) by ensuring compatibility between the five existing MIS (management of facilities,



                                                  - 5 -

logistics, human resources, finance and procurement, and epidemiology) and improving data
collection;
(c)     unifying and modernizing MOHFW human resources management services;
(d)     strengthening facilities construction planning and maintenance services;
(e)     unifying and strengthening procurement and logistics management of the two "wings",
including development and application of operating procedures, storage and handling facilities
improvement, training for about 5,500 operating personnel;
(f)     upgrading quality assurance of health care with community oversight;
(g)     rationalizing and re-focusing research to support new approaches to delivering the ESP
and quality management for both government and private providers;
(h)     the expansion of the role of NGOs in the provision of health and family welfare services
(to be initially carried out through a parallel project funded by USAID).

Component B: Organizational and Management Reform (US$30.6 million, or 1.0 percent of
program costs)

Subcomponent B.1. Restructuring and Rationalization of MOHFW (US$3.6 million or 0.1
percent of program costs). This set of activities was intended to eliminate the bifurcation of the
National Family Planning and Health directorates and achieve the integrated delivery of an
effective ESP (see Component A.1) and increase access to low income women and children.
Reorganization and integration that was to begin at the level of the "upazila" and district (typically
containing 8-10 upazilas or a population of between 2-5 million people) would progress through
to the unification of operational directorates in the Ministry itself. Restructuring was to begin at
the upazila level, involving 50 upazilas initially. A new set of oversight and management
arrangements would be created and applied at each level, including the participation of civil
society. Job descriptions and assignations would be revised. To complement integration, the
Secretariat of the Ministry would also be restructured to strengthen its own role in policy
development, strategic planning, legislation, and evaluation of the execution of operational plans,
strengthening functions to facilitate its stewardship of the sector, including the restructuring of
central directorates and their roles, moving them to an oversight and stewardship function. At the
same time, decentralization of management and finance would be sought through a pilot in one
Upazila, including purchaser/provider agreements between MOHFW and districts (to be
supported through EC parallel funding). Part of the restructuring effort would also include a
phased decentralization of authority to hospitals and districts, building on pilot programs in these
areas. Very little detail is provided as to how decentralization is to be implemented.

Subcomponent B.2 Sector Program Management (US$19.9 million, or 0.7 percent of program
costs). The Ministry would introduce "sector based programming" (a sector wide approach) in an
attempt to unify and reduce fragmentation of efforts and financing that had hitherto prevailed.
The concept of the SWAp had been widely discussed and agreed among the GoB and DPs, and
there was agreement on what constituted an "ideal state" of a SWAp operation. These included:

        (a) existence of a clear sector policy and strategic framework;
        (b) clear links between strategies and expenditure plans whereby allocation of resources
        reflects the strategy over the medium term (a Medium Term Expenditure Framework);



                                                  - 6 -

        (c) annual operational plans specifying activities under each strategy with appropriate
        budgets;
        (d) annual program reviews to assess progress and plan activities for the next year
        (e) integrated management of activities under the responsibilities of line departments
        rather than as separate projects;
        (f) performance monitoring and reporting for operational plans rather than separate
        projects;
        (g) funding the operational plans from pooled funds of donors and government, without
        earmarks.

An additional feature would be that donor requirements for reporting, justification of
disbursements, procurement regimes and financial management regimes would be harmonized and
would use government systems to the extent possible for executing these functions.

GoB had already established some of the conditions deemed necessary prior to program
launching, including the development of a new Health and Population Sector Strategy (HPSS)
that had wide acceptance by DPs and a summary (5 page) Program Implementation Plan (PIP)
that set an overall framework for operationalizing the strategy. The subcomponent would provide
additional resources to support the development of the remaining elements: training for line
directors (LDs) and the Ministry in general on the preparation of Annual Operational Plans
(AOP)s; and preparation of Annual Performance Reviews (APRs) with DPs. The program would
also reinforce the capacity of the Secretariat to manage the sector under the new regime by
establishing or strengthening four new management units: a Planning and Monitoring Unit, a
Policy and Research Unit, a Regulation Section, and a Finance and Administration Section. These
would be supported by a donor assisted Program Coordination Cell (PCC) embedded in the
Ministry, responsible for program coordination, mobilization of resources for the various activities
to be undertaken, coordination of technical assistance and organizing and carrying out the APRs.
Finally, the program would support a Change Management Unit (CMU), also embedded in the
MOHFW, with responsibilities for the design and negotiation of regulatory changes required to
carry out the restructuring of the Ministry and the transition to "sector management". As there
were long-standing governance issues in Bangladesh, donors felt that they needed a separate
support office outside the MOHFW was needed to assist the MOHFW in tracking and managing
financial and procurement.

Subcomponent B.3 Health Policy Reform (US$7.0 million, or 0.2 percent of program costs). The
program would support research, study and consultations aimed at addressing a number of
pertinent health sector policy and regulatory issues covering the national drugs policy, selective
cost recovery measures, public-private partnerships, health insurance schemes, adoption of a
patient's charter of rights, assuring gender sensitivity in the provision of services; assuring
adequate participation of stakeholders; and the management of medical wastes and other
environmental impacts of providing medical services.

3.4 Revised Components:
There was no formal revision of project components. A reallocation of loan funds was approved
in March 6, 2002, to reflect actual expenditure needs. The project closing date was extended



                                                  - 7 -

twice from December 31, 2003 to December 31, 2004 and to June 30, 2005. The latter was
necessary because of implementation delays and to cover financing for the program while the
follow-on program, HNPSP, was being prepared and approved.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. A formal quality at entry assessment was not carried out
for this project. However, a Quality Supervision Assessment (QSA3) of the project was carried
out by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) just one year after effectiveness which comments on
project design. The project was fully in line with Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives
(CAS Report No. 14998-BD, discussed on 3/31/98) and with a new Health and Population Sector
Strategy (HPSS) produced by the GoB prior to program identification. Moreover, the design of
the HPSP contained many elements considered to be international "best practice" at the
time. This was evident in the adoption of an ESP to ensure access to basic care to low income
Bangladeshis, and on the basis its contents, which included cost-effective interventions addressing
epidemiological profile of the target population.

Moreover, the project/program design was bold in adopting a program approach, simplifying
GoB's transaction costs in dealing with all DPs, and incorporating management
arrangements that permitted flexibility in implementation. These included the use of annual
work programming (APRs) and annually-determined costing and budgeting to allow flexibility in
changing the work plans for line departments accounting for progress during execution. The large
amount of unallocated funding set aside at the beginning of the program also provided donors
with flexibility in determining disbursements, and created some incentives for effective
implementation. To compensate for limited implementation capacity, the program provided for a
PCC, which was staffed with Ministry staff and contractual personnel as a temporary measure,
and a MCU (also staffed my MOHFW staff and consultants) to support implementation of the
institutional reform components. While such arrangements would not normally be considered a
"best practice", in a context where a SWAp was being developed, they could be considered
acceptable risk mitigation measures.

However, the proposed overall program was very complex and ambitious considering the
limited managerial capacity of the MOHFW, a point already flagged in the IEPS as a serious
risk. In effect, the strategy called for the introduction of a new concept of service delivery (the
adoption of the ESP approach), the introduction of significant organizational/institutional reforms
(implying important changes in the approach to service delivery and in the functions of a large
proportion of staff at all levels), all while simultaneously attempting to modify the traditional
operating style of numerous partner donors (up to 16 separate agencies were involved in
programs supporting maternal and child care, nutrition and population sectors). Moreover, several
of the reforms implied changes in the regulations that governed civil service, which were under
the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Establishment, and not within the MOHFW's control. The
QSA, which rated project supervision during the first year as highly satisfactory, also found
project design too complex given limited implementation capacity. While it is clear that a large
sector wide program would have greater complexity that an individual project, the absence of a
conceptual framework to be able to prioritize and link interventions made this design appear more
complex than it needed to be.



                                                   - 8 -

There appeared to be an uneven development of components, with service delivery aspects
being very thoughtfully developed, and reform components lacking sufficient definition. The
description of reform components such as decentralization, hospital autonomy, health insurance,
for instance, did not give a sense of the complex legal, financial, administrative and behavioral
aspects that their design and management would entail. Most importantly, the reform
components were not supported by a conceptual framework to orient the implementation of
reforms. There was no roadmap to guide the prioritization and phasing of the various activities
and thus elements of key reforms seemed fragmented and unlinked, and were sometimes missing
important elements that would facilitate their effectiveness. While the detail of reforms need not
be specified a priori, as they can be developed during implementation, the lack of a framework in
fact led to the development of fragmented initiatives that did not build on an overall system.

The complexity of the program proposed is in part the result of the highly participative
preparation approach adopted. All key stakeholders, including government, NGOs, private sector
and health users were organized into seventeen working groups to prepare different aspects of the
program. A participative approach most certainly increased ownership amongst all, but on the
downside, prolonged the period of project preparation (29 months from identification to board
approval), and made for a complex design. It may be that an independent, highly specialized team
could have revised the resulting proposal to make it more focused and internally linked, thus
meeting the needs of stakeholders, but also ensuring greater ease of implementation.

The institutional restructuring of the MOHFW was seen as "long overdue" at project preparation.
The topic had been under discussion since 1979, and the fusion of Family Planning and Health had
been attempted before without much success. However, despite its long incubation period, an
adequate technical and political analysis of its feasibility was not carried out. Proposals for
the reorganization of the MOHFW had been developed by a High Level Committee on
Organization and Management Restructuring of Health and Family Welfare Sector as a guide for
the program, with technical assistance financed by DfID. While extensively discussed within
Bangladesh, the recommendations and the means to implement them appear to have been made
largely on the basis of intuition and consensus. While GoB showed clear signs of "ownership" of
the proposed unification at the level of the cabinet and senior officials, there was limited buy-in for
unification from senior officials at the district level even before the change in government. This
"commitment" rapidly vanished with the change in government administration. While the rationale
for the unification of the two wings of the Ministry seemed logical from a technical point of view,
the powerful resistance to change within the upper levels of the MOHFW should have been
foreseen. There might have been other alternatives to integrate service delivery at the point of
service that implied a less threatening scenario for those affected.

Of the ten principal risks identified, eight were considered to be "high". While risk ratings were
by and large appropriate, most mitigation measures were weak and based principally on the
expectation that the MOHFW would actually be able to act on its prior commitments. This
unwarranted dependence on planning as a risk mitigating measure was most notable with respect
to actions relating to launching the change management program. In fact, it was not recognized
that most of the proposed mitigation measures would face their own risks of failure. As a case in



                                                   - 9 -

point, a proposal to mitigate the risk of failing to accomplish the planned reorganization by
"implement[ing] the reform in a careful, phased manner, with high level political support and
accommodation of vested interests" would face the risk that high level support might wane if
confronted with objections and inertia emanating from the unionized and civil service staff of over
100,000 persons. No concrete steps had actually been taken to establish a roadmap for phasing
the change process, for assessing such "vested interests", or for understanding whether and how
they could in fact be accommodated. This left the change process open further risks of failure.

In sum, project/program design takes into account best practices of the day and structures
program management so as to move closer to sector wide management, gradually strengthening
GoB's ability to deal with numerous donors, and a more horizontal approach to health care
delivery. However, the feasibility of the unification of the two wings of the MOHFW was not
properly assessed, sector reforms were not linked to a framework to ensure the various pieces
would build on each other thus increasing their sustainability, and the project was unnecessarily
complex. In view of these issues, the project is rated as moderately satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The program/project development objective was: to improve the health and nutrition and reduce
fertility of vulnerable groups, particularly poor women and children.

         This would be achieved through three means:
(a)      increasing the coverage and quality of essential health and family planning services
through the provision of an "Essential Services Package" addressing the basic health needs of the
population;
(b)      introducing public sector reorganization and reform efforts to increase efficiency and
cost-effectiveness of services, and laying the groundwork for broader health reform;
(c)      enhancing sector-wide management capacity to increase effectiveness and efficiency of
implementation.

While there are a number of household surveys that have measured health outcomes and some of
the intermediate indicators related to improved health such as changes in utilization of specific
maternal and child health services over the period covered by the HPSP, data on the extent to
which quality, efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery was achieved is generally lacking.
Thus, this ICR will rely on survey data to address the development objective of the program and
the first of the specific objective, and on reports and interviews to assess the achievement of the
second and third specific objectives. Survey data come from the series of Demographic and
Health Surveys carried out in Bangladesh in 1997, 2000 and 2004, and data from Service Delivery
Surveys financed by CIDA in 1999, 2000 and 2003. The latter included both household and
service provider questionnaires, and focus more on public perceptions of health and family
planning services, and their utilization, and not on measuring health outcomes. Because it is
impossible to assess the contribution of IDA's support to program outcomes given the pooling of
funds, this section will generally restrict itself to assessing program impact on health status and
service utilization. Where possible, the impact and utilization of public health services will be
assessed, as IDA funds contributed directly to MOHFW delivered services. While the HPSP had



                                                   - 10 -

national coverage, MOHFW services covered mainly rural areas while NGOs supported by DPs
mainly worked in urban areas. Thus, outcomes in rural areas are more likely to be linked to HPPP
financing.

Improving the health of poor women and children:

ICR Rating: Program/Project: Moderately Unsatisfactory. As DHS data will note, there
have been improvements in child health as reflected in lower mortality rates, and a slight reduction
in fertility. Nutritional status improvements are evident from 1997 to 2000, with minimal
reduction in severe malnutrition, and none in moderate malnutrition thereafter. Data on maternal
mortality are scarce. A survey was carried out in 2001 that gave estimates for 1999 of 320 per
100,000 live births but there are no subsequent surveys to use as comparisons (Bangladesh
Maternal Mortality Survey). Access to antenatal care and professionally delivered births will be
used as a proxy for maternal health. These data are assessed under "access to ESP".

Thus, overall, the program did improve maternal and child health, although not as much as it had
originally expected (as the targeted values indicate). However, there were other concurrent social
sector investments in Bangladesh that have likely also influenced health outcomes, including
improved education for girls, greater access to safe water, improved agricultural production and
rural electrification, as a recent OED "Maintaining Momentum to 2015; An Impact Evaluation of
Interventions to Improve Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition in Bangladesh", OED 2005. evaluation has
shown. Thus, it is not possible to quantify the extent to which the program itself improved health
outcomes.



Indicators                    1997               2000                  2004          HPSP target
Infant Mortality              89.6                79.7                 72.4                50
Child Mortality               127.8              110.0                 96.6                70
Fertility                      3.3                 3.3                  3.0               2.5
(wm.15-49)
Nutritional Status
of children < 5:
   Wt./Age < 2 sd             56.4                47.6                 47.5                35
Mod. Underwgt
  Wt./Age < 3 sd              20.7                12.9                 12.8                8
Severe Underwgt
   Ht./Age < 2 sd             54.7                44.6                 43.0
Mod. Stunting
 Ht./Age < 3sd                28.1                18.2                 16.7
Severe Stunting

Improved access to ESP:

DHS data on service utilization for Bangladesh as a whole show an increase in institutional births



                                                    - 11 -

and professionally assisted deliveries, and increased utilization of antenatal care (ANC) (see
below). Child immunization against the basic childhood preventable diseases also increased
gradually throughout the period.

Indicators                      1997                      2000                   2004
% Use of Modern                  42.1                     44.0                   47.6
Contraception
% Delivery in Health             4.1                      7.6                     9.3
Facility(last 5 years)
% Professionally                 8.0                      12.1                   13.2
Assisted Deliveries
% w/out any                      71.4                     62.9                   44.1
Antenatal Care
Vaccination:
Measles                          70.1                     70.8                   75.7
DPT 1                            85.0                     88.9                   93.1
BCG                              86.3                     91.0                   93.4

However, data from Service Delivery Surveys (SDS) note that there was a decline in the use of
MOHFW health and family planning treatment services over the period of HPSP (13 to 10
percent from 1999 to 2003), and an increase in the use of private or NGO providers (from 30 to
49 percent for the same period). NGOs, with a long tradition of providing health services in
Bangladesh, were financed under a separate project (ADB) through the Ministry of Local
Government and Rural Development (MOLGRD), and by USAID, as part of HPSP. Utilization of
preventive services, the focus of ESP, also declined from 2 percent of respondents in 2000, to less
than one percent in 2003. Government services were also not the main choice for preventive
services, with the exception of immunization, where utilization increased from 55 percent to 91
percent from 2000 to 2003. According to SDS, ANC coverage did not increase over the period,
although the number of visits per user did increase slightly. Moreover, the proportion relying on
government delivered ANC declined from 79 to 63 percent between 1999 and 2003. SDS data on
place of delivery show virtually no change in the proportion delivering in a health facility (at 12
percent), although there was a decline in government-based deliveries, from 62 percent to 48
percent from 2000 to 2003.

Decline in utilization of government services is related to declining satisfaction with
government-provided services, which declined between 1999 and 2000 and remained low in 2003
(38 percent rated government services as good in 1999 and only 10 percent after 2000). There
was, however, no decline in satisfaction during that period for preventive publicly delivered
services such as immunization, ANC, family planning and delivery, which form the core of ESP.
But, as mentioned earlier, utilization overall is quite low. In sum, while overall there was an
improvement in the health status of the population and in health care utilization, it appears that
gains were made largely by non-government-provided services, with the exception of
immunization. However, other factors such as access to safe water, likely also had a positive
effect on child health.



                                                  - 12 -

Health Impact on the Poor:

Data on health status and health service utilization by income groups are available from the 2002
Status of Performance Indicators (Streatfield, et al. 2003) based on DHS data for 1996/97 (pre
HPSP) and for 2000 (within HPSP). Income quintiles were constructed using household data on
ownership of assets and home construction. Earlier Status of Performance Indicators utilized only
mother's education as a proxy. Data indicate that infant mortality was 72 percent higher for the
poorest households than for the richest in 1996/97. The gap is only slightly reduced to 68 percent
in 2000. The declines between the periods, however, take place among the poor. Differentials
between rich and poor with respect to under-five mortality are even larger, and increase over time
from 83 percent in 1997 to 95 percent in 2000. However, these include deaths occurring during
and pre-HPSP. Data also show considerable inequity with respect to under nutrition, with children
from the poorest households being twice as likely to be moderately under nourished, and four
times as likely to be severely under nourished, than children in the richest households. Despite the
fact that under nutrition appears to have declined over time, the gap between the rich and poor
widened. Data on service utilization regarding childbirth by trained personnel, and place of
delivery, show wide disparities between rich and poor, but no increase in inequity over time. The
2004 DHS includes a similarly constructed wealth index which shows a decrease in inequity in
infant mortality (38 percent higher for the poorest), and under five mortality (68 percent higher),
and in the rate of severe malnutrition (down from 4 to 3 times higher in poor households) but
remains the same for moderate malnutrition.

Although a similar index for the 2004 data is not available, rural-urban differentials can be used as
a proxy, even if less sensitive. Moreover, MOHFW-delivered services covered primarily rural
areas and thus may be more closely linked to HPPP effects. Given that the data are based on the
five years prior to the survey, the changes between 2000 and 2004 are more relevant. The data
show a similar trend, indicating marked differences in health status and in utilization of services
between rural and urban populations. However, data show a decreasing gap between rural and
urban values over time. Data indicate that declines in infant and child mortality, and fertility, are
due primarily to changes in rural areas. Nutritional status (underweight and stunting) declined
between 1997 and 2000, but remained unchanged from 2000 to 2004. Disaggregating by place of
residence shows the change between 1997 and 2000 to be due to changes in rural areas as well
and, and very minimal changes from 2000 to 2004. In the absence of a control group, one cannot
say whether in the absence of HPPP under nutrition would have increase in rural areas as well.
The data suggest, then, that program interventions (and other social investments) generally
benefited rural populations more than the urban ones, with the exception of nutritional status,
which showed limited effects. Service utilization data from the DHS confirm this pattern.
Available published DHS data do not provide breakdowns of utilization of government services
by rural/urban residence and thus GoB's role in effecting health status changes cannot be more
closely pinned down. And unfortunately, SDS data do not disaggregate by place of residence.
However, as indicated before, provision of ESP in rural areas was mainly in the hands of
MOHFW, and in the hands of NGOs in urban areas. But it is also likely that investments in other
sectors may have also had a greater effect on rural populations.




                                                - 13 -

 Indicators        1997               2000             2004
              Urban    Rural   Urban      Rural   Urban    Rural
Infant         73.0    91.2     74.2      80.7    72.3     72.4
Mortality
Child          96.4    130.9    96.5      112.7   92.2     97.7
Mortality
Fertility      2.1      3.4      2.5       3.5    2.5       3.2
(15-49)
Nutritional
Status of
children < 5
yrs
Wt./Age < 2    41.9    57.9     39.8      49.2    42.2     48.8
sd Mod.
Underwgt.
Wt./Age. < 3   14.2    21.4      9.1      13.6    12.1     13.0
sd Sev.
Underwgt.
Ht./Age < 2    34.9    56.3     35.0      46.5    37.7     44.3
sd Mod.
Stunting
Ht./Age <      17.0    29.2     13.0      19.3    13.5     17.4
3sd
Sev. Stunting

 Indicators        1997               2000             2004
              Urban    Rural   Urban      Rural   Urban    Rural
% Use of       52.8    40.7     49.0      42.7    51.9     46.4
Modern
Contracep.
% Delivery in  23.2     2.2     24.1       4.3    22.0      6.1
Health
Facility
% Prof.        35.0     5.5     33.0       8.0    29.6      9.1
Assisted
Deliveries
% w/out any    37.0    74.8     37.7      68.2    25.2     49.1
Antenatal
Care
Vaccination:
 Measles       80.0    69.2     80.6      68.8    82.8     73.9
  DPT 1        90.9    84.5     95.0      87.7    93.4     93.0
  BCG          91.8    85.8     95.2      90.1    94.2     93.2



                                - 14 -

Service Delivery Surveys (SDS) show that both in 1999 and 2003, the poorest households were
less likely to have used government or private services than less poor households. DHS data
confirm this pattern. The poorest households were more likely to use unqualified practitioners.
Focus group discussions noted that the poor felt they were discriminated against in government
health facilities. Moreover, they could not afford unofficial payments demanded by service
providers. Finally, analyses of improvements in equity in access to services and health outcomes
were carried out as part of the 2005 Annual Program Review. They indicate that differences
between rich and poor in infant and child mortality declined over time. However, differences
between rich and poor increased over time with respect to under nutrition indicators, and access
to immunization remained the same. Analyses carried out for the 2005 APR also found resource
allocation to actually benefit regions and groups that were better off. The latter is not surprising
given that the HPSP never introduced a targeting algorithm although it had intended to do so.
The issue had been the focus of some analytical work and considerable discussion throughout
implementation.

In sum, while overall the health status and overall health care utilization improved over the
lifetime of the program, it seems that publicly provided ESP contributed little to these
improvements, given low and decreasing utilization rates. It is also unclear that it had a pro-poor
impact as the evidence is mixed. Generally, equity seems to have improved since 2000.
However, in the absence of a counterfactual, it is difficult to discredit government efforts.
Although utilization of government services was low, the program did introduce ESP as the basic
services that needed to be provided nationwide, regardless of provider, standardizing service
delivery and consolidating a patchwork of project-driven services into a coherent program. GoB
also procured contraceptive supplies and vaccines delivered through NGOs. Finally GoB did
maintain its share of financing of the sector at 60 to 65 percent over the lifetime of the project.
GoB did not, however, increase the share government financing allocated to health as much as
expected.

Impact of Institutional Reform on Efficiency and Effectiveness:

With respect to the outcome of the institutional reforms, there are no data to quantify
improvements in efficiency and cost-effectiveness. SDS did collect data on service quality (both
perceptions and some objective indicators) and in general, quality declined. The unification of
family planning and health within MOHFW, which more than likely would have brought
efficiencies in the delivery of reproductive and child health services and increased access for
women by introducing one-stop services, was only temporarily carried out, and with very negative
consequences due to the disruption it caused. The restructuring was carried out at the level of
upazilas and below, but was never implemented at the higher levels of the MOHFW's
administrative structure. While there was support at local levels, there was much resistance to the
change at the district level and above and efforts were made to halt the unification even prior to
the change in government in 2001. The measure was rolled back by the new government that
assumed power in 2001, bringing about considerable disruption, causing considerable disorder
and disaffection, leading to notable losses in productivity. The unification of support services
with common functions which were to fall within the purview of the Secretariat also did not



                                                 - 15 -

materialize. Had preparation better analyzed the political economy of the unification of the two
branches of the MOHFW, or had alternatives to unification been considered during
implementation, the disruption could have been avoided.

With respect to the impact of all the other sector reforms, including decentralization, hospital
autonomy, cost recovery, health insurance, etc, little was accomplished, as most remained as plans
or small pilots. However, one can say that the investments prepared MOHFW to embark in the
deepening some of the reforms that were initiated in HPSP as part of HNPSP.

Enhance sector-wide management capacity to increase effectiveness and efficiency

The program made satisfactory progress towards developing a sector wide approach to improving
health, on both GoB and DP sides. The approach that GoB and DPs had developed over the years
of working together was gradually evolving into sector wide management, and the HPSP served
to solidify that progress and move it forward. HPSP fundamentally altered the nature of the
relationship between MOHFW and the DPs. It transformed 126 donor-funded projects into a
single program. Likewise, while the 1996-97 GoB Annual Development Plan (ADP) showed 93
separate investment and technical assistance "projects" under MOHFW management, the
1998-99 ADP showed one, the HPSP.

However, the concept of the "sector" to be brought under a SWAp itself remains unclear. At
present the sector is being defined as activities that are being managed by the MOHFW, rather
than the sector as a whole. While MOHFW has the most significant projects under the ADP
within its management, the ADP for 2003-04 contained 34 "Health, Population and Family
Welfare" projects, only 3 of which were under MOHFW. A vehicle for coordinating these actions
into a broader "sector approach" has not been developed. Nevertheless, significant steps were
made in moving towards sector-wide management.

Achievements by MOHFW

GoB had developed several of the basic elements of the SWAp prior to program inception,
including a sector strategy that DPs accepted as the basis for support and ample experience with
coordinated donor support. A large share of the financing of the MOHFW budget (between 35
and 40 percent) was derived from pooled donor sources, and devoted to programmatic purposes.
MOHFW condensed 66 individually designated components of the Fourth Population and Health
Project (FPHP) into compact budget lines ready for implementation through the regular
operations of line directorates. During implementation of the HPSP, operational managers moved
toward annual work planning (AOPs) as a line function of the Ministry, allowing the unit's work
to be agreed at the beginning of the year rather than on a piece meal basis. These identified the
activities and their corresponding budgets for the year, which were then consolidated into a single
annual work plan for the MOHFW. The process not only reduced the bureaucratic costs of
expenditure approval, but has given the MOHFW more control over budgetary resources. The
approach to management also led to a change in Planning Commission-MOHFW operational and
decision-making relationships, with the MOHFW being the only Ministry to have this relationship
within GoB (APR, 2003).



                                                 - 16 -

The APR process was designed as a management instrument for both the MOHFW and DPs to
monitor and evaluate the implementation of the HPSP. It was a joint review exercise to assess
policy, operational and financial aspects of implementation. The process included: (a) an
assessment of independently prepared "status of performance indicators" report; (b) joint
GoB-DP field visits; (c) the preparation and review of an independently Technical Review of
progress towards HPSP goals; and (d) policy dialogue with respect to the solution of identified
problems and the way forward. In the early years it also included a "stakeholder participation
meeting" which was later discontinued at the request of the Secretary of Health. The APR process
was a joint exercise. The participation of Secretaries and high-level officials from other ministries
in the policy dialogue enriched the discussion by allowing a better understanding of DP's concerns
and how these could be addressed in a cohesive manner. Up until 2003, the APR was
coordinated by the PCC under the chairmanship of the Joint Chief of Planning. A Lead Consultant
would be in charge of APR preparation, defining the thematic areas for the TOR and the selection
of consultants. HPSO drafted TOR for the APRs, and contracted and managed consultants for the
independent reviews. The organization of the reviews was carried out by the PCC. With the
elimination of the PCC in 2003, the bulk of coordination passed to the Health Program Support
Office (HPSO) as the MOHFW lacked the necessary management and planning capacity to
organize the process on its own. MOHFW line directors provided information towards the
preparation of reports. While all was done with the final approval of the Secretary, MOHFW
could have taken a more proactive role.

While many of the motions with respect to sector wide management appear to be made, there is
evidence that although the process has in many ways been adopted, the objectives of it have not.
A satisfactory medium term expenditure plan translating the strategy into a spending framework
does not appear to have been fully completed, leaving AOPs less well anchored to the overall
strategy. Moreover, there seemed to be an over-reliance on planning in the application of AOPs,
to the detriment of implementation, supervision and monitoring , and were generally completed as
a bureaucratic requirement rather than as a management tool. Part of the problem has to do with
the civil service culture that permeates the MOHFW, having few incentives for good performers
and no way to discourage bad performance. In part, an objective results-based focus to evaluate
the performance of line directors has not materialized owing, perhaps, to the lack of progress in
establishing the UMIS (see below). However, it appears that managers are not seriously engaged
in the process, as there are no rewards for good planning and good performance. MOHFW has
been slow to adopt an "evidence-based" approach to assess progress and steer the program
despite the large program of research conducted by the Health Economics Unit, and independent
analyses performed by DPs. Finally, although the relationship between MOHFW and DPs was
altered, managers still see HPSP as a larger international project that is separate from their routine
duties--the fact that MOHFW managers requested to have "assistant managers" to manage HPSP
activities for them is an indicator of this perception. In fact, MOHFW has a separate budgeting
and planning process for revenue and development (which finances HPSP) budgets, something
DPs always disagreed with.

While a concerted effort was made to change the modus operandi to a sector wide approach, an
assessment of the savings and efficiencies derived from the new form of management of the



                                                 - 17 -

individual projects/programs has not been carried out. Considering the large number of individual
operations plans of line directors that are now involved (initially 22, but growing to 38 by the end
of the program) the cost of coordination and oversight within the Ministry is growing again so
that its comparative advantages are difficult to assess. In sum, there were some important
achievements in reaching sector-wide management despite some important remaining challenges.

Achievements by Development Partners

Donors have also made progress in moving towards a SWAp methodology in Bangladesh. They
made significant strides within the long standing consortium arrangement that had guided past
operations in the sector. A considerable amount of financing was pooled, common management
and supervision arrangements were adopted (including reporting, financial management and
procurement), and views were coordinated and harmonized. The HPSP brought together 70
percent of the foreign contributions to the health sector. Of the eight DPs IDA, Canada, EC, KFW,
GTZ, Netherlands, Sweden, UK providing the bulk of the financial support, five IDA, EC, Netherlands,
Sweden, UK pooled their financing, accounting for about 91 percent of the HPSP foreign
financing. However, funds were not pooled with GoB funds, but rather, through IDA managed
trust funds.

DPs established the HPSO to provide coordination and reporting functions to the Health Donor
Consortium. The HPSO was the Consortium's Secretariat. HPSO was managed by an HPSO
Steering Committee made up of pool financiers, (in addition to CIDA and KfW who provided
parallel support), under rotating chairmanship. HPSO was located in the World Bank and was
managed by the World Bank, and financed through DP trust funds. Thus HPSO was to coordinate
DP inputs and support MOHFW (jointly with MOHFW's PCC) in monitoring the progress and
impact of the sector program, in addition to managing the trust funds through which donor
support was being channeled to MOHFW. It was to be the source of financial and procurement
information to report to their respective authorities. Of its six main functions originally envisioned
for HPSO (forum role, provision of technical assistance, policy dialogue, program review,
program progress and trust fund management), only two involved interface with GoB, and only
one was specific to the World Bank's role as trust fund manager.

The role of HPSO was the subject of much controversy over the lifetime of the project. A review
of HPSO commissioned by the Steering Committee in September of 2004 noted some of its
strengths and weaknesses. The HPSO played a critical role in supporting the HPSP, both through
ensuring smooth(er) procurement and financial management, as in delivering the necessary
technical assistance. While the coordination of DP inputs to HPSP and the monitoring of those
inputs were successfully carried out, the report sees HPSO as being less successful in working
with the wider DP Consortium who were providing parallel financing and TA. This generated
some aggravation between pooling DPs and the wider Consortium. The location of HPSO within
the World Bank also generated some conflict, as HPSO came to be seen as a "World Bank"
office. The use of World Bank Procurement guidelines for HPSP procurement led to considerable
problems in the first two years, leading HPSO to focus much of its time on Bank processing
(financial monitoring and procurement) only magnified the impression that HPSO worked for the
Bank. With the change in government in 2001, perceptions of HPSO changed, as did its role, with



                                                - 18 -

HPSO being seen more as representing the will of DPs. HPSO's role in coordinating dialogue
improved after the lifting of the partial suspension. Moreover, it began to focus more on policy
and advice, commissioning studies to inform program decisions. As the report notes, HPSO was
understaffed until 2003. The period of suspension appears to have given all concerned time to
assess their role and the need to work together.

In sum, considerable harmonization and coordination amongst DPs was achieved, although it was
limited mainly to pooling members, leaving important partners outside the process. While there
was harmonization of reporting and procurement and financial management, this was achieved by
using World Bank approved standards and procedures, not government processes and
procedures. This was understandable, however, given the weakness of government systems.
Common appreciation of the progress in program implementation was also achieved. Further, a
results-based approach to monitoring and evaluation was maintained even in the absence of
reliable data from MOHFW, even though a culture of evaluation has yet to be adopted by
MOHFW.

4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Service Delivery and Policy Reform

ICR Rating for the Component: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Subcomponent A.1 Development and Delivery of an "Essential Services Package".
One of the achievements of HPSP was to consolidate a patchwork of project-driven services into
a coherent and costed ESP. Moreover, it focused resources on the most cost-effective
interventions and on public goods, therefore paving the way for a more efficient allocation of
resources. It attempted to introduce a new service module, shifting from domiciliary services to
fixed clinic based services at community clinics, supported with outreach visits for priority
households. This was also intended to reduce costs and increase efficiency. However, GoB did
not devote the needed resources, and, it is likely that the US$4.00 per capita that the PAD
estimated as sufficient to provide ESP, was in fact not enough. GoB was to devote about 60-65
percent of the MOHFW Budget to the delivery of ESP of which less than half was spent on
personnel, leaving a sizable residual to support implementation. However, during the first three
years, less than 60 percent of its budget was allocated to ESP, and by 2002 it was only 57
percent. In fact, public expenditure on health fell in real per capita terms and as a share of total
government expenditure during the first three years, rising only in the fourth year to pre-HPSP
levels. It is not surprising, then that public health service utilization did not increase and
apparently declined, and that quality of care also suffered. Service Delivery Surveys (2003)
indicate that ESP utilization was lower at the end of HPSP, than pre-HPSP levels (from 13 to 10
percent). At the same time, use of NGO/private services increased from 30 to 49 percent. The
same survey suggests that the client oriented focus in the delivery services did not meet
expectations as perceptions of the quality of public services declined in spite of continued efforts
to train upazila staff in client-centered approaches. An assessment of community clinics carried
out in November 2002 found that not only was staffing below the planned levels, but the skills of
staff in the new clinics were insufficient to provide the necessary quality of care, and the needed
equipment and drugs were often lacking. The same analysis found them to be very under
underutilized, with an average of 12 patients per day when they could easily handle a minimum of


                                                   - 19 -

60 (Normand, et al., 2002).

Other factors affecting quality, and thus utilization, have to do with the slowdown in service
delivery that the reversal of the unification of family planning and health caused. A third factor
had to do with the move away from domiciliary service delivery to clinic based services and the
subsequent abandonment of the clinic system. The process of building 13,000 community clinics
and making them operational was very delayed. By December 2002, 9413 had been constructed
out of which 6707 were "functioning", but no upazilas had implemented the static clinic by then.
(Mercer et al. 2005). The newly elected government abandoned the community clinic system in
2003 and domiciliary visits were reintroduced. While outreach work had been declining since
before HPSP, these services were particularly affected during HPSP implementation. From 1997
to 2004, the percentage of married women who received a visit from a field worker in the six
months prior to the survey declined from 35 percent to 18 percent (SDS, 2003). Thus, while
outreach was discouraged, many clinics were not operational and when they were, often
clinic-based services did not meet expectations.

In sum, insufficient allocation of funds, translating to poor quality of care, delays in the
construction of clinics, and a lack government commitment to the clinic-based system after the
change in administration reduced the effectiveness of this subcomponent, which represented 56
percent of HPSP costs. While program-wise, effectiveness was better as it included private/NGO
services who were of better quality and whose utilization had been increasing, IDA financing went
to government provided services, i.e. HPPP, and as such, this subcomponent met its objectives
only partially.

A.2. Improving the performance of public hospitals

The GoB launched a Hospital Improvement Initiative (HII) which targeted eleven secondary and
tertiary hospitals in a pilot program, aimed at testing new management systems and procedures,
and arrangements which could lead to autonomous management of the facilities. The pilot was to
cover training to improve managerial capacity, management of medical wastes, refinement of
procurement systems, integration local oversight into management, and define the conditions to
allow the retention of fees/payments from users to support operations. Under the auspices of a
Hospital Management Committee, managers were trained in new management approaches and a
system for the collection and retention of fees for services, was developed. This system was not
implemented however, and little progress has been made in granting a meaningful degree of
autonomy to pilot hospital managers. Legislation to grant autonomy to the pilot hospitals stalled.
The absence of benchmarks or criteria for evaluating the pilot programs has made it difficult to
assess progress or to inform a decision on rolling out the experience, even though limited in
scope. Towards the end of the program, a further attempt to draft an Umbrella Hospital Bill was
initiated but no meaningful action has been taken to press for its passage. Although, by the end of
the program, some improvements may have been made in the management of the eleven pilot
hospitals, even a modest degree of delegation of authority and local accountability had not been
achieved.




                                                  - 20 -

Subcomponent A.3 Provision of other public health services

The only public health programs mentioned in documentation on HPSP are the TB program and
the HIV/AIDS and STD program (HAPP). HAPP also had its own financing, and like BINP,
shared procurement and financial management arrangements until 2003 after the mid-term review
of HAPP concluded that it needed to set up its own procurement and financial management team.
HAPP will be the subject of a separate ICR.

Subcomponent A.4 Provision of other health services including nutrition

Although the Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project had separate financing from HPSP, it did
share procurement and financial arrangements with HPSP. The project closed in June 30, 2002
and a follow-on project (National Nutrition Project, NNP) was approved in May of 2000. NNP
has separate financing and separate institutional arrangements. Because the Bank considers BINP
and NNP separate projects from HPSP, they are not included here.

Subcomponent A.5. Improving general sector support services and functions

The improvement of general support services within MOHFW was uneven, with progress largely
interrupted by the change in policy regarding unification of health and family planning wings. The
principal results by sub-component include the following:

        (i) A comprehensive behavior change communications (BCC) program, which was
considered to be a key element in promoting family planning and maternal and child health
objectives was not implemented during the life of the project..

        (ii) MOHFW developed an excellent plan for a unified MIS (UMIS) and began to
implement it. Early in the project, the existing MIS in each of the Family Planning and Health
wings were suspended awaiting the development of the UMIS. However, the development of the
UMIS itself was abandoned when the process of unifying the family planning and health wings
was suspended, leaving the MOHFW "flying blind" for more than 4 years. The only data available
were from periodic surveys supported by DPs and service statistics on immunization and
contraception. The separated health and family planning MIS were restarted but without
improvements relative to the pre-program situation.

        (iii) MOHFW has made some progress in strengthening human resources development and
management but considering its complexity, it remains very much "work in progress". The project
succeeded in establishing the concept of human resource management as including concerns for
personnel development, career building and performance management, as an alternative to the
traditional concept of "manpower posting". Recognizing the constraints posed by existing civil
service regulations, and other well-known informal arrangements governing recruitment and
allocation of positions, this is a considerable achievement. However, there was no serious attempt
to implement the "Strategy for Change" that was drafted for HPSP. Training was regularized as a
line function with budgets and accountabilities assigned to line department managers, and a
mechanism for promotion and performance based management was introduced in about 25



                                                 - 21 -

percent of the upazilas, although the practice remains to be rolled out to the rest. Some
decentralization of responsibilities for recruitment and assignment of non-professional staff to
District managers (next in line after the Ministry) was also achieved. And, the transfer of close to
70,000 field workers (mostly family planning) from Development (including DP funding) to
Revenue budget was partially achieved. However, many issues remain to be resolved.

        (iv) The construction and maintenance program was managed by the MOHFW
Construction and Maintenance Management Unit. A total of 200 Health and Family Welfare
Clinics (HFWC), and 13,000 Community Clinics were to be constructed. Altogether, a total of
152 HFW clinics and 9400 Community Clinics had been completed by December 2002 (Mercer et
al, 2005). Besides new construction HFWCs, Upazila Health Complexes and District Hospitals
were upgraded and remodeled. The up-gradation of hospitals was carried out through Public
Works Department. Construction was suspended following the reversal of unification in 2003.
While most of the clinics met location and space specifications (with the exception of provision of
toilets and safe water) the quality of construction varied, with about one quarter considered as
having insufficient quality (Normand, 2002). Part of the problem was the insufficient supervision
of this sub component. There were considerable delays in execution of most of the works, with a
lack of documentation regarding the underlying reasons for the delays. Reasons given for delays
included floods, unavailability of land, lack of funds, and problems with contractors. Procurement
processes sometimes lacked the necessary transparency, and resulted in some declarations of
miss-procurement.

        (v) Procurement performance has not met all of its expectations and has shown both
strengths and weaknesses. The plan to integrate the procurement functions of Family Planning and
Health wings was not completed. Building capacity within the two procurement agencies has been
difficult and results uneven. Overall, the Family Planning Procurement Unit, which handled a more
uniform set of items generally performed better than the Central Medical Stores Depot which
handled a larger variety of supplies and equipment. Both units have adopted the use of World
Bank procurement methods, although have required significant ongoing training, retraining, and
hands-on support from the HPSO. Procurement has required a heavy degree of supervision
during implementation to reduce delays and avoid mis-procurement. While there has been basic
change in procurement practices in the MOHFW, it entailed considerable technical assistance and
oversight. However, the team is now capable of handling considerably larger amounts of contracts
than ever before.

        (vi) The original intention plan to form a national quality assurance cell, and to establish
national, divisional and other quality assurance teams appears not to have been systematically
acted upon.

        (vii) The program generated a large body of analytical work to support new approaches to
delivery through the Health Economics Unit, which, although staffed largely by expatriates,
carried out some important research. (DPs also conducted major self-financed studies on relevant
sector issues). Unfortunately, much of this has not been used to inform decision-making by the
GoB, and as a result, policy and management decisions of the Ministry remained largely driven by
political or social concerns. Fortunately, much of the research has informed the development of



                                                 - 22 -

the follow-on HNPSP and has not been lost.

         (vii) The program envisaged an expansion of the role of NGOs and for-profit providers in
the delivery of the ESP, training, monitoring and evaluation of quality, advocacy for patients'
rights, among others, and modified the practice of direct contracting with NGOs alone or through
umbrella agencies (as practiced in the Fourth Health and Population Project) in favor of
earmarking funds for contracting through line directorates of the MOHFW. Studies and
discussions of an overall strategy and process of contracting required to engage NGOs were
undertaken but not acted upon, although some ad hoc contracting did occur. As a result, in spite
of the general recognition of the importance that the NGO and for profit sector as a partner in the
sector, and specifically in improving access to services, little was effectively accomplished through
the MOHFW. In fact, it wasn't until it was evident that improvements in the basic health
indicators were slow to materialize, that it became clear that the role of NGOs and the for-profit
sector needed to be strengthened. What was done relied essentially on the actions of three
programs funded outside the pool including: the Bangladesh Population and Health Consortium
(BPHC) financed by DFID, the National Integrated Health and Family Planning Project financed
by USAID, and the Urban Health Project financed by ADB. and under a different Ministry. Only
about 1.5 percent of the program's cost was assigned for NGOs or disbursed to them. Eventually,
MOHFW ceded the management of selected community centers, numbering less than 100 and
about 350 Union Health and Family Welfare Centers to NGOs participating in projects financed
by other donors.

B. Organizational and Management Reform

B.1 Restructuring and Rationalization of the MOHFW:

ICR Rating for the Component: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Restructuring of the MOHFW through the unification of family planning and health services at the
upazila level and below was quickly accomplished at the inception of the HPSP through an
administrative instruction, rather than in a phased manner as originally agreed. However, the
merger of structures and procedures resulted in organizational chaos, creating considerable
uncertainty for many staff, effectively paralyzing service delivery. As noted in the 2003 APR, the
merger was not designed and implemented in a functional nor fair manner. With a change in
government and senior Ministry staff in October 2001, GoB reversed the unification of the Health
and Family Planning wings. With the reversal of the unification, the MOHFW's structure reverted
to its pre-program position. These decisions had the effect of also suspending plans to unify
various support services. There is little evidence that these decisions were based on objective
analysis of the relative cost/effectiveness of alternative organizational structures, but, rather on
strictly political grounds. There is little evidence that these decisions were based on objective
analysis of the relative cost/effectiveness of alternative organizational structures, but, rather on
strictly political grounds. Moreover, the restructuring received undue importance among DPs. As
the 2003 APR notes, the failure of the unification came to be seen as "the single largest deterrent
to MOHFW's organizational performance". The reversal of unification (and lack of progress on
other issues) led to a suspension of disbursements in April 2003 that in retrospect could have been



                                                  - 23 -

avoided had different alternatives been considered once resistance was clearly evident, and the
project had been restructured. This forestalled meaningful dialogue on the matter for some time
and soured relationships between GoB and DPs. Most importantly, the objectives of this
subcomponent were never achieved.

B.2 Sector Program Management:

There has been satisfactory progress in establishing the sector wide approach, although
MOHFW's ownership of the process could have been deeper. Nevertheless it was a big step in
the right direction for both sides, and the process dramatically changed the way in which DPs and
MOHFW related to each other. Important formal steps in managing the development of a SWAp
were taken, including the introduction of AOPs, and the use of APRs for evaluating progress and
results, pooling of funds, unification of procurement procedures, financial management and
reporting, and the establishment of a forum for the harmonization of consortium views. However,
the AOP process has remained, in most cases, a formalistic budget allocation exercise, rather than
a planning and management tool. This has resulted in part from the lack of regular MIS
information, inadequate development of line managers' capacity, and an absence of a culture of
evaluation and of focusing on results. The effectiveness of capacity building that was carried out
was reduced by the high turnover of key staff within the MOHFW. The lack of focus on strategic
outcomes came not only from the fact that AOPs become unnecessarily detailed, resulting in
reduced flexibility and increased micro-management, but also from the expansion of the number
of AOPs from about 22 to 38, split between two wings.

On the DP side, the process could have been deepened as well. The HPSO was expected to be
primarily a forum to coordinate DP's views and harmonize their recommendations regarding
program performance, and to provide financial management and procurement support to
MOHFW to be able to provide information for DPs to report to their respective authorities.
However, because of the need to tightly supervise transactions in the environment which had
well-recognized governance issues, and substitute expertise in procurement and financial control
which the Ministry lacked, HPSO activities became centered on process (financial monitoring and
procurement), and DPs became overly focused on implementation details, agreeing to detailed
"action plans" (often containing numerous points that were seldom followed up) instead of
focusing on longer term strategic issues. HPSO began to focus on more strategic issues during
and after the suspension. A functional analysis of HPSO functions carried out as part of
management audit in 2004 indicated that trust fund management accounted for about 51 percent
of the effort of the HPSO. The same management audit found that HPSO played a key role in
areas where HPSP was successful, and was crucial in averting major problems, it never
established itself as the overall DP coordinating unit for the SWAp. It often failed to represent the
views of the non-pooling partners, and for many, it was over-identified with the World Bank.
Thus, coordination amongst DPs could have been better, and the approach to MOHFW
performance could have been a bit more hands off with respect to implementation details. Finally,
despite the emphasis on working together and pooling funds, several of the "poolers" are also
providing parallel support, weakening the benefits of a united approach.




                                                 - 24 -

B.3. Reform of health sector policies:

Progress with respect to this subcomponent was very uneven, and generally limited. Some studies
and pilots were carried out but relatively little has been translated into concrete policy. Although
the majority of these reform areas were under developed in the PAD, studies carried under the
HEU were prepared in order to move these activities forward. However, the study results were
never utilized by GoB. This includes pilot programs aimed at testing cost recovery mechanisms
(fees for services) with retention of funds for local use in hospitals, and the testing voucher
schemes to generate demand-driven services. A new ordinance covering drug importation
(certification) has been prepared and still awaits implementation.

The focus on gender issues came during the second half of program implementation, particularly
after it was clear that utilization of services was not increasing. GoB introduced a broad
cross-sectoral program to improve the gender sensitivity. A Gender-Equity Strategy was
approved and a Gender Issues Office was established in the MOHFW, supported by a
multi-partner Gender, NGO and Stakeholder Participation Unit. An overall Gender Advisory
committee was established to oversee activities. However, this has been a low priority for
MOHFW. Activities were under-resourced, the Gender Equity Strategy was barely implemented,
the Gender Issues Office was poorly staffed and not empowered, and a Gender Mainstreaming
Project to incorporate gender issues into AOPs was never implemented (compliance was
voluntary).

Good dialogue among stakeholders established during the preparation of the HPSP was not
effectively translated into effective participation during implementation. Initially several (17)
health watch groups were formed at the upazila level, mainly by local NGOs, some including poor
persons and women, although an institutional framework for these organizations was not
established. Despite assistance from DPs, an effective MOHFW communications strategy which
could have informed stakeholders and built commitment to change, sought feedback and
eventually solve problems of health care delivery, was not developed. A consultative process did
emerge but was largely dominated by organizations of the professional health workers.
Representatives of civil society did not actively participate. While GoB was committed to
expanding participation of stakeholders, by the end of the program it had taken few concrete
steps.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not evaluated

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not evaluated

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Although institutional restructuring under the HPSP did not meet expectations given the reversal
of the unification of health and family planning, the reform of operational practices has been
considerable. MOHFW has made considerable progress in institutionalizing the concept the
sector wide approach (SWAp). It has instituted line department AOPs as a break from traditional
program-based planning and financing of activities, although improvements in execution capacity,



                                                  - 25 -

supervision and management arrangements among other functions, are necessary before this can
be considered "mainstreamed". Likewise, basic managerial functions including human resources
management and procurement management have seen important improvements that will support
future institutional development efforts. Finally, the process of APR was established as a
"practice", although the organization of the exercise needs to be more fully managed by the
MOHFW. Overall, therefore, the institutional development impact of the program has been
substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Limited in-house capacity for policy decision-making. Bangladesh has been dependent on
donor support for many years, and has been the object of considerable analysis and study. This
has produced a great deal of information on policy options for GoB on many fronts. However,
with limits on GoB's in-house capacity for objective and independent analysis, and dependence on
international assistance to meet budgetary obligations, GOB may have been less able and willing
to develop an independent view of its options, and tools and capacity to implement them. Thus,
during the development of its Health Sector Strategy prior to launching the HPSP, GoB was
presented with detailed planning and implementation methodologies which the "international
donor community" believed were sound, but which GoB may not have been in a position to assess
for applicability in its own situation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Limits imposed by cultural and legal framework. There were major influences within GoB's
overall control that constrained program implementation which were outside MOHFW's ability,
as implementing agency, to alter. Civil service culture and regulations were largely determined by
the Ministry of the Establishment (MOE) setting a pattern of staff rotation, promotion, incentives
and sanctions, and post assignments that severely complicated the introduction of reforms and the
strengthening of management. The MOHFW was obliged to manage its re-organization within
the legal and cultural framework that was set by the MOE with little room to re-negotiate these
regulations or seek exceptions.

Poor Governance. The program operated in an environment of recognizably poor governance
standards complicating the use of government systems for procurement and financial management
normally associated with a sector wide approach. Instead, DPs were required to provide
additional verification and on-the-job training in these areas, slowing procurement, financial
reporting and disbursements.

Insufficient financial management and procurement capacity. The capacity of government
institutions to manage finances and procurement was also chronically weak which deprived the
MOHFW of a pool from which to upgrade staff. While GoB had launched a project to reform
and modernize financial management systems, MOHFW was in the vanguard of applying the new
methodologies and had few precedents to follow in doing so.

Insufficient share of government finance allocated to health. GoB was to increase its relative
allocation to health from 6.0 percent to 7.5 percent of government spending. Up to 2003, it had



                                                     - 26 -

only increased to 7.1 percent.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Fragile commitment to reform across administrations. The reform components of the
program made very little progress throughout implementation. Morever, those that did make
some progress were reversed when there was a change in administration showing very fragile
commitment to the reforms agreed to with the DP Health Consortium.

The high turnover of staff in the MOHFW has limited the impact of capacity building activities
to strengthen in-house capacity.

Insufficient partnering with the private NGO sector: MOHFW was resistant to opening its
operations to meaningful inclusion of the NGO and for-profit sectors as partners in providing
health care services which could have leveraged its own actions to improve access and quality of
services.

Insufficient supervision of field operations. Studies assessing the conditions and quality of
services of community clinics found many deficiencies which could have been avoided with
adequate supervision.

Insufficient use of data for decision-making and preparation of AOPs. The program
produced considerable information for decision-making that was not utilized. Moreover, AOPs
were prepared more for budgeting than for planning given the lack of focus on results.

Civil service culture provides no incentives for improved performance.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The cost of implementing the HPSP program was originally estimated at US$2,895 million, to
which donors would contribute US$705 million. Of this contribution, the pooling DPs were
expected to provide US$522 million equivalent. This cost was broken down by category of
expenditure. However, financing was assigned to these categories only in the first program year
and most of the financing left as "unallocated", to be subsequently disbursed to meet the costs of
AOPs as they were approved. The resource needs of individual components were not fully
specified since these would be ultimately determined by the AOPs developed by line departments
that were implementing the program.

As of November 23, 2005, following 2 extensions of the closing dates covering 18 months, the
total realized cost of the program, estimated on the basis of costs considered eligible for
reimbursements (SOEs) was US$2,835 million or 98 percent of the original estimate. Mapping the
costs of completed AOPs against project components (Annex 2, Table 1) shows that the
implementation of service-based components (ESP, other services such as HIV/AIDS prevention,
facilities construction and upgrading) generally exceeded appraisal estimates, while realized costs
of components devoted to restructuring and reform (policy development, re-organization, sector
management, MIS development) were well below appraisal estimates.

Original commitments on the part of pooling partners (US$522 million) ultimately translated into


                                                    - 27 -

US$465.7 million, accounting for exchange rate variations during the period in which
contributions were made to the "pool". Of this amount, about US$42.5 was cancelled during
implementation, principally owing to the cancellation by the EU of about US$39 million
equivalent (50 percent of its original commitment) in response to the GoB decision to reverse its
policy on "unification". The remainder is accounted for by cancellations following proven
mis-procurement. The "pool" has disbursed US$390.3 million of the remaining US$414.4 million
of commitments (or 94 percent). Following the decision that grants should be disbursed before
"credits", the full, undisbursed amount is of the IDA credit. At closing, 90 percent of the IDA
credit has been disbursed.

Throughout program implementation period, annual audits of the project accounts revealed
numerous discrepancies. By the end of 2003, there were 50 "observations" made in independent
audits (observations identified by IDA as being critical), representing a value of about US$250
million. As a condition of negotiations of the HNPSP, government settled cases representing 50
percent of the observations in terms of value ($US130 million). The last observation was finally
settled in December 2005 in response to IDA holding disbursements of HNPSP until all
observations were settled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
In spite of implementation problems, the program's modest results are likely to be sustained,
albeit, with risks. Financing for the health sector is likely to continue to be available. GoB depends
heavily on the donor community to support about 35 percent of the total health sector budget and
this level of funding is expected to continue for the medium term. In addition, GoB has recently
committed itself to increasing its own contributions to the sector by about 6 percent per year in
real terms in order to at least maintain and possibly improve the per capita public expenditure on
health services. Reforms that have been instituted in human resource management, procurement,
annual operations planning and budgeting are also likely to be maintained and improved,
considering that modernizing the management of the public sector is a shared concern of the
donor community and much of the senior management of the Ministry. Moreover, unlike the
HPSP, future actions to modernize the sector under the HNPSP are designed to be less
prescriptive, leaving open a wider scope for a pragmatic and flexible approach to planning the
ways and means of achieving program goals. Therefore a change process is more likely to be
followed based on results, lessons and problem solving, building ownership, rather than by design.


Based on its progress to date, the sector wide approach is also likely to evolve further. GoB and
DPs appear committed to pursue a policy driven results agenda, including, for example, meeting
the Millennium Development Goals for health. The use of AOPs is likely to be maintained as it has
been demonstrated as a sound vehicle to allocate untied financial support. However, it is also
likely that an element of "project lending" will remain, driven in part by the legal requirements of
certain donor governments and their commitment to projects outside the purview of the
MOHFW. The Consortium is proving itself to be useful as a tool for ongoing coordination of
assistance to the sector, and the APR a useful monitoring tool for both GoB and DPs. The focus,
however, is likely to move more towards results and policy. Finally, the definition of the "sector"



                                                 - 28 -

is being expanded to bring in more of the institutions and agencies that affect health outcomes of
the population. These factors are likely to lead to a "quasi-SWAp" which will be consistent with
in-country realities, while being effective, and providing coherence between goals and financing.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
GoB is now receiving support from the DPs who financed the HPSP, and from others for a new
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Program (HNPSP). GoB has mobilized resources of
approximately US$4.3 billion, with donor contributions of about US$1.2 billion, of which the
Bank has approved financing in the amount of US$300 million. The new program would have as
its longer term health objectives, meeting the MDGs for health, as a minimum, with additional
goals for reducing chronic infections, work related, and other life-style health threats and
conditions. Implementation arrangements have been designed to increase the level of ownership
of the GoB in implementation and its accountability for results. The SWAp would be further
developed building on progress made to date, with improvements in the use of APRs, AOPs and
harmonization of the requirements of DPs for financial management reporting, procurement
administration, results-based reporting.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
During preparation, the Bank took a leadership role within the consortium, bringing together a
very large number of stakeholders to work with the GoB in the definition of the program's design.
This involved managing missions that frequently involved as many as 16 agencies and contained
up to 70 individuals in addition to a large representation from the MOHFW. While inclusion is
crucial to ensure ownership, it makes for difficult coordination, and can easily result in a complex
project design as a result of trying to please many stakeholders. Managing such a large group
requires clear rules of engagement in order to not lose sight of the overall objective, something
that may have happened both during preparation as during implementation.

The preparation of the various components was very uneven. The ESP was very carefully
worked out--it's the centerpiece of the PAD. But other aspects, like most of the reform areas,
were only superficially addressed. This was surprising given the long preparation period. That
the project was approved by the Board on the last day of the fiscal year suggests part of it may
have been work in progress. Apparently there was management pressure to deliver the project
that fiscal year.

The team failed to assess the political feasibility of the unification, with disastrous consequences.
According to a review prepared by DfID, the team relied on the commitment of a small senior
group within the Ministry and did not assess the extent to which the group's views represented
those of the MOHFW as a whole. The "commitment" to reforms quickly disappeared when the
group was replaced after a change in administration.

The Bank's appraisal of the program met most required standards satisfactorily. Again, the Bank
assumed a leadership role on managing very large donor teams, organizing consultative
workshops to address the key themes of the operation, and provided the majority of the analysis
of the project's viability. However, as indicated above, deficiencies in three key areas lowered the


                                                  - 29 -

quality at entry. First, the appraisal team did not include a fully qualified and experienced
institutional development expert, or expertise in managing institutional change. Second, as a
result, the assessment of risks was ill informed and mitigation proposals inadequate. Third, being
closely involved with senior and committed MOHFW staff in the preparation of policy, strategy
and preparation of the operation, the Bank failed to appreciate that the level of commitment to the
operation might not have been widely shared by those who would bare the full cost of the
reorganization. Finally, it did not adequately account for the need for communications and
consensus building on reform aspects at the time of appraisal.

While recognizing some shortcomings that lowered the quality at entry of the operation, other
factors related to the Bank's providing focus and leadership to the operation would support rating
the Bank's performance during the lending cycle as moderately satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
The HPSO, which represented the Consortium, but was financed by the pooling partners, was
responsible for providing fiduciary supervision of the program and managing the trust funds
(other functions were not World Bank related). Because much of the work of HPSO was with the
management of the trust funds (and oversight of procurement and financial management), HPSO
was often seen as being a World Bank Office when in fact it was to represent the Consortium.
Staffing of the HPSO was insufficient. It wasn't until 2003, near the original closing date of the
project, that the HPSO was fully staffed. On the side of the Bank, supervision resources assigned
to supervise the HPSP were insufficient as it was treated as a single project. DPs complained that
HPSO was carrying out the Bank's supervision responsibilities.

Formal supervision of HPSP was carried out through the APR process. The APRs typically
established a strong factual basis, independent technical analysis and reporting. They also
identified remedial measures, and enjoyed wide participation of all donors and officials of the
MOHFW. APRs also tracked financial management and procurement issues using Bank norms
and reporting. The inability of the MOHFW to organize the APR once the PCC was eliminated
required that the HPSO assume a more direct role in managing the reviews. While this reduced
MOHFW's ownership of the APR process, it did not compromise the Bank's ability to carry out
supervision.

However, the APRs became increasingly focused on operational details, often leading to
agreements to long lists of "action points" with tightly controlled timetables for completion which
appear to have been poorly monitored and often ignored. In the process, strategically significant
actions were often lost or underplayed. This affected the Bank's own focus on whether the
program was meeting strategic objectives. On one hand, the close proximity of the Bank's
supervising staff in the World Bank Office in Bangladesh to the MOHFW and its key staff, may
well have re-enforced the tendency to track details, on the other, the Bank showed a
commendable level of pro-activity in engaging the MOHFW in dialogue and supporting his
implementation efforts. Throughout, the Bank supported its supervision effort with sector
analyses conducted in collaboration with DPs and the MOHFW/HEU even though the results may
not have influenced Ministry policy.

A QSA carried out one year after effectiveness rated supervision as highly satisfactory, and


                                                 - 30 -

commended the team for their proactiveness. Supervision provided was intensive, with heavy
involvement from the resident mission, and a field-based task team leader. The APR process was
carefully set up with GoB and the DPs, and fine-tuned by carrying out a "dry run" early on. The
team focused on facilitating the process overall.

The monitoring and evaluation framework for the program, which included annual program
expenditure reviews, national health accounts and service delivery surveys, was carried out as
planned, bringing the necessary information to stakeholders to assess program progress. Given the
absence of MIS data from the MOHFW, this proved to be even more important than originally
expected. Organizing the numerous surveys was a complex task and the supervision team
deserves some credit for ensuring they were carried out.

While the Bank and HPSO team was generally proactive in its approach to supervision, it failed to
address the powerful resistance to the unification of the two wings of the Ministry in a timely
manner, allowing dialogue with GoB to break, ending up in a partial suspension of disbursements
by pooling financers. Consideration should have been given to restructure the project at the time
of change in administration rather than waiting until a suspension seemed inevitable. The pooling
financers were proactive in opening the door to dialogue and defining a new plan of action with
GoB to lift the suspension.

The Bank was diligent in reporting through PSRs, but assessments and ratings were often
unrealistic and not inconsistent with actual developments. As an example, at no time was the
program development objectives rated unsatisfactory or the project considered to be a "problem
project", even when Government failure to pursue a major program goal led to a partial
suspension of disbursements. PSRs also rated financial management of the project satisfactory,
even though the performance of the Financial Management and Audit Unit depended to a large
extent of the contribution of donor financed consultants, and annual audits continuously drew
"observations". Ultimately, the cumulative number of substantial observations reached some 50,
with only about half of these being resolved by the time of negotiations of the follow-on HNPSP.
By not having the audit situation flagging in PSRs, the Bank may have been deprived of an
opportunity to apply sanctions earlier in the implementation period.

Considering its pro-activity, and role in providing leadership to the consortium during
implementation, the Bank's supervision effort is considered satisfactory

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Throughout program preparation and implementation, subject to some avoidable weaknesses, the
Bank acted in a technically sound and goal-driven manner. It attempted to provide technical
advice and implementation assistance to the borrower beyond the simple financing of the
operation. As part of this effort it conducted complementary sector analyses in order to inform
policy and program implementation, although it may have missed opportunities to broaden the
consideration of alternatives within the range of international best practice that it advised during
preparation. Its overall performance therefore is considered to have been moderately
satisfactory.

Borrower



                                                - 31 -

7.4 Preparation:
Throughout preparation, the Borrower was very committed to the objectives of the program. The
GoB formulated a Health and Population Sector Strategy to guide preparation. The MOHFW
took one of the lead roles in the preparation of the project, constituting 17 task forces and
organizing numerous workshops with as many as 150 stakeholders. It also established a High
Level Commission to address management reform issues in the health sector that was endorsed by
the Cabinet. And, it increased health sector funding by 11 percent in real terms in the period
preceding the project. However, GoB also did not entertain the political feasibility of some key
reforms. As such, GoB/MOHFW's performance during preparation is assessed as moderately
satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
GoB's role in implementation could have been considerably more facilitating. Governance
problems and government bureaucratic delays had a negative impact on program implementation.
GoB was particularly slow in addressing financial irregularities uncovered in annual audits.
Moreover, it did not sufficiently increase the share of spending allocated to health as had been
agreed. GoB's performance in implementation is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
MOHFW's role in implementation changed over time. Overall, MOHFW seemed insufficiently
engaged in the program, and overall progress was slow. It showed considerably more
commitment to the program in the early beginning, hitting a low after the change in government in
2001. Performance improved a bit in the last year, but overall commitment was insufficient given
the task at hand. While budgets were generally funded, plans generally followed, and
disbursement rates were satisfactory overall, staff rotation of key positions was very high, as was
absenteeism, the appointment of key staff was very slow, there were delays in launching studies,
and much hesitation to proceed with increasingly difficult institutional changes and follow-up to
remedial actions following APRs.

Some key decisions taken, like the reversal of the unification and the failure to engage NGOs,
were based on political considerations rather than empirical information, and ended up limiting the
impact of the program. MOHFW showed little enthusiasm for engaging NGOs and the for-profit
sector despite evidence of their relevance highlighted in sector studies carried out for this
purpose. Decentralization, another important reform agreed to during preparation, was never
adopted. Much analytical work was carried out with DfID financing during the first two years to
assist in the design of aspects of the reform components. However, GoB did not use the wealth of
information available to inform their decisions.

The government was not forthcoming in offering alternatives to the unification, allowing a partial
suspension to come into effect. An Action Plan Agreed Reform Agenda (APARA) and a
contingency spending plan were subsequently agreed as the basis for lifting the partial suspension
and extending the closing date of the credit to allow for continued financial support of health
services, but GoB was also slow to follow through with these commitments.

The MOHFW's unsatisfactory performance in implementing this program has been partially
mitigated by its decision to work with DPs to design a new sector program, taken soon after the



                                                - 32 -

partial suspension was lifted. The HNPSP for which financing was approved by the Bank in April
2005, has placed a strong emphasis on achieving results, including meeting MDGs, without the
level of prescribed institutional reform that characterized the HPSP. In implementing the HNPSP,
there would be more choice in the ways and means of resolving questions, depending on analyses
made at the time. This approach places its own demands on the performance of the GoB
institutions and holds inherent risks, however, is less likely to lead to impasses that characterized
the HPSP.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall assessment of the GoB's/MPHFW performance is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The program offers insight into a number of important design and implementation issues with
implications for other projects:

Sector Wide Management

Engaging in sector wide approaches to program management can be a challenge, given the
number of stakeholders involved and the size of the programs. Amongst the key lessons regarding
SWAps, we have learned that:

        SWAps cn be gradually adopted, yielding increasing improvements in sector management
even when the change is incomplete.
        Mechanisms to facilitate implementation in the context of insufficient capacity or local
governance deficiencies that prevent the exclusive use of "government systems" yield good results
and allow the government to gradually take on the responsibility it should.
        It would also be important to establish performance indicators and progress benchmarks
for establishing the SWAp as for any other set of project activities.
        SWAps need to clearly define the scope of the "sector" to be managed so that it includes
all of the relevant parameters that affect the causal link between program activities and final
results. Allowing key sector stakeholders to lie outside the influence of program interventions
(such as NGO/for profit health care providers) or key donors to lie outside the donor partnership
(such as the ADB), would structurally weaken the benefit of adopting a SWAp. Parallel funding,
where possible, should be discouraged.
        DP coordination is a difficult and time consuming task, requiring negotiating skills,
leadership and presence in the field. A Code of Conduct with clear rules of engagement for
coordination and management of the SWAp needs to be defined upfront, to ensure decisions are
taken swiftly, that time is not consumed by numerous meetings to reach consensus, and to
maintain the focus of the program. Given the lack of experience with SWAps by both DPs and
GoB, considerable time was spent on reaching agreements, as rules for engagement were not
clear.
        SWAPs have to be carefully and diplomatically managed. Putting all "eggs in one basket"
means that the program can easily be derailed if both sides do not handle issues in a constructive
manner.
        The APR process needs to be carefully managed, to ensure it is maintained as a forum for



                                                 - 33 -

review and discussion. Including too many stakeholderslimits the discussion, making the
discussion of solutions to problems identified less fruitful.

Managing Institutional Development

        Not carrying out the necessary analyses of the political economy of reforms can lead to
failure. Opposition needs to be identified, whether within the MOH, physician's associations,
other worker's associations, and users of the services themselves.
        Managing institutional change is a difficult process, and one that needs to take into
account all stakeholders. Analyses should be made of what is at stake for everyone, and benefits
for each need to be identified to bring them on board. They need to be consulted and convinced of
the benefits of the process for them. Commitment to or at least understanding and agreement
regarding the rationale for the institutional change sought could have been built among those most
affected, and new elements could have been brought in as a result of negotiation with these
stakeholders. An opportunity was therefore lost to identify incentives that could have bolstered
institutional change.

Other Lessons

        It is often assumed that the poor always opt for public services as they cannot afford
private services. However, some are too poor even to consume government services as the costs
are not always financial and when they are, they are not evident. As Service Delivery Surveys
indicated, the very poor did not benefit from MOHFW services, as informal fees charged made it
costly for them.
        Participatory preparation, while enhancing ownership, can dilute the focus of a project
design. A balance needs to be struck to ensure both goals are met. A review of the resulting
proposal can be submitted to independent technical analysis for suggestions on how to improve
the overall product without losing the key aspects of the design.
        It is important to measure not just long-term outcomes but also intermediate indicators
that would lead to those outcomes to ensure program effects can be measured. Monitoring
indicators for intermediate goals are crucial to be able to explain program effects. As such, it was
difficult to link changes in health status to the program. For instance, there were many other
factors that influenced the PDO that were not measured, such as girl's education and increased
access to safe water.
        Project objectives need to be closely linked with program inputs and outputs, and the
targets set need to be related to the capacity of the implementing entity. In this case, MOHFW
services alone could not have improved maternal and child health.
        An adequate risk management strategy is needed. Management of risks must be an
essential part of the APRs and routine project supervision.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
No comments submitted.




                                                  - 34 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments from CIDA:

1. One of the over-riding concerns about HPSP was that it was not a cohesive, conceptually
coherent program. This was understandable given the multitude of challenges, and the size of the
program. However, implementation and communication of the program would have benefited
from a conceptually integrated approach. This is mentioned in this Report, but would have been
useful advice during the design of the new HNPSP program. Unfortunately, HNPSP may be even
more scattered than HPSP, in part due to the difficult environment in which it has evolved.

2. The allocation of effort to the ESP program was a key component of HPSP and has resulted in
some notable progress in service delivery, although it is not consistent across the service network.
Unfortunately, the reality, as noted, is the decline in clients using the ESP at GoB facilities to less
than 10%. This represents a seriousl problem for the national health service of the GoB.

3. It is interesting to note that a feasibility study on the unification of the Directorates of Health
Services and Family Welfare was not carried out. The importance of the lesson in capacity
development strategies cannot be over emphasized. The feasibliiity study would have presumably
made a comparison of alterative approaches to achieving efficiency gains within the GoB health
and FP service areas but avoiding the politically volatile issue of wholesale unification.

4. A further important observation is this: HPSP and health SWAps everywhere are likely to be
successful only if the recipient government is truly in the lead in setting priorities, especially
involving structural, administrative and governance reforms. The lack of GoB ownership over the
unification plan mitigated certain failure and disappointment on the part of donors. This lesson
appears not to have been learned during the planning of HNPSP, where, once again, GoB has not
been adequately involved in the planning and certainly has not taken any sort of leadership role on
the planned components. Have feasibility studies been duly carried out for HNPSP components?

5. The harmonization gains among donors was an important achievement and still in progress
with the present SWAp. However, further discussion of the impact of parallel programs on HPSP
would be of considerable interest.


Comments from DFID:

(Note: Comments from DFID were mostly incorporated into the text. Included here are those
remarks that were general in nature, and a summary of their contribution to HPSP)

Inevitably, perhaps, our comments focus on issues where our perceptions and/or memories differ
from those stated in the draft ICR. The key issue of credit suspension is not covered sufficiently;
this is (fortunately) a rare occurrence in WB lending and so we feel it merits fuller treatment to
bring out the circumstances and the lessons. We also feel that there are places in the text where
the balance of credit for success and blame for failure is a little too positive towards the World
Bank and too negative towards the GOB. Some of our specific comments below relate to this



                                                    - 35 -

issue, and seek to correct this balance while not, of course, exonerating the GOB from all
responsibility.

DFID Financial Contribution to HPSP

DFID approved a contribution to the HPSP of 55m. This contribution took two different
forms. One was direct funding to WB of 25m, agreed under a MOU. The other was parallel
funding of 30m for eight different components grouped together as "SHAPLA" (Special Health
and Population Loan Assistance). These components were managed by four different agencies.

The final summary accounts of DFID disbursement to the HPSP are as follows:

Direct to WB under HPSP MOU                                    -      25m

Parallel Funding as Technical assistance to SHAPLA:

A) HLSP management costs                                       -      2,014,352
1.      Organisation and management                            -      5,170,768
2.      Human Resource Development                             -      1,222,748
3.      Hospital Management                                    -      2,945,875
B) Maxwell Stamp
4.      Strategic Investment in Health Economic                -      3,774,993
C) The British Council / NICARE (management costs)             -      1,605,816
5.      Medical Education                                      -      1,938,818
6.      Nursing                                                -      1,897,480
7.      Public Private Partnership                             -      2,061,480
D) BPHC
8.      Public NGO Partnership                                 -      6,824,697

Total Technical Assistance                                     -      29.46m

TOTAL SWAP                                                     -      54.46m


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



10. Additional Information




                                               - 36 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Part A Outcome/Impact Results

Indicator                 Pre HPSP               HPSP Target (2003)     End HPSP Estimate
                                                                        (2005)*
Maternal mortality ratio  4.1/1000 (1998) to     2.8/1000 live births   Estimated at <3.2
                          3.1/1000( 2001)
Infant mortality Ratio    57/1000 (1998) to      50/1000                60-65/1000
                          66.3/1000 (1999)
Mortality Under 5 years   94/1000 (1997) to      70/1000                85/1000 approx
                          96/1000 (1999)
Total fertility rate      3.3 (1999)             2.5                    <3.0
Child Malnutrition, % ,   35.7% (1996/97)        35%                    33.5%
Moderate
Child Malnutrition, %     20.6% (1996/97)        8%                     12.1%
Sever
Nutritional Status of     52%                    60%                    30-35% (2004)
Women (BMI < 18.5)
STDs prevalence by        CSW- 41%               30% reductions in all  CSW 22.5-37.1
group (syphilis)          MSM- 12%               groups                 MSM- 5.8
Incidence of Polio        10 (1998)              0 for 3 years          0 since 2000
                          29 (1999)
     *Source: APR 2005

Part B. Outputs/Inputs

Indicator                 Pre HPSP               HPSP Target            End HPSP (2005)
1. ESP Services Use
 i)Curative Care          13% of cases (1999)    80%                    10% (2003)
ii) EOC                   5.1% (1994)            30%                    8-18% (UNICEF)
 iii)Client Satisfaction  unkn                   80%                    56% (SDS 3rd round,
                                                                        2003)
iv) CCs fucntional        na                     10,833                 Unkn (8,600 turned
                                                                        over to NGOs
 v) Unofficial payments   40% of public services 0                      Unkn; possibly 25%
paid                      users
 vi) ANC                  26.4-28.6% (1996/97)   65%                    60% (2004) est.
 vii) Assisted deliveries 8%                     30%                    13-14% (2004)
 viii) Contraceptive      49.2% of couples       60%                    60% est (2004)
prevalence rates          (15-49) (1996/97
 viii)Budget allocation   60% of MOHFW budget    65% of public          60-65% over 2003-2005
                          allocated              expenditure on health
2. MOHFW Systems
Integrated **
 i) Human Resources       Segregated HRD by      Unified HRD            Program designed to
Development               wing                                          cover 6 essential areas
                                                                        with functions
                                                                        performed (see text)
 ii)Sustainable BCC       Fragmented IEC         Unified and health     BCC not improved and



                                                  - 37 -

introduced                 practices on small        promotion BCC         remains centralized,
                           project scale             functioning           bifurcated and theme
                                                                           specific
 iii) Facilities upgraded  Few ready to              Unspecified           Some facilities
                           accommodate ESP and                             upgraded, with cost
                           be gender responsive                            overruns and some
                                                                           mis-procurement;
                                                                           attractiveness and
                                                                           amenity not seen as
                                                                           improved by clients
 iv) Unified sector-wide   Segregated services by    Unifies MOGFW         Procurement services
procurement, distribution wing                       services              not unified; however,
and stocking system                                                        progress made
established,                                                               separately in capacity
                                                                           development (see text)
 v) Quality assurance      Not practiced             Regular practice      No substantial proigress
bodies established,
disseminating,
3. Other hospital level
services focused and
approved **
 i) Hospitals managed      Not begun                 Lacked clarity        Suitable management
autonomously and                                                           systems prepared and
accountable locally                                                        training of hospital
                                                                           managers undertaken in
                                                                           11 pilot cases; follow
                                                                           through not fully
                                                                           implemented (see text),
 ii) Integrated referral   Not begun                 Lacked clarity        Not operational
system established for
ESP involving public and
private hospitals
 iii) Private and NGO      Autonomous and            Regulated operations  Standards not set;
hospital focus on          regulated operations                            leverage effect on NGO
reproductive health and                                                    and private
medical surgical                                                           hospital/clinics
emergency services                                                         performance not
meeting GoB standards                                                      established
 iv) Safe, autonomous,     Risks to blood banks      Risks mitigated       Contract arrangements
self sufficient blood bank identified                                      made with WHO to
and diagnostic laboratory                                                  assume responsibility
                                                                           for safe blood supply
                                                                           work
4. Sector wide
management system
established and
operational **
 i) Government to          De facto sector wide      Strategy and needs    Strategic approach slow
prepare/update long-term coverage by donors but      driven planning,      to develop owing to lack
sector strategy, program   through uncoordinated     programming and       of MIS, feedback
plans and budgets based    means, at high            operations            systems. Process
on ESP                     transaction costs leaving                       improved in context of



                                                     - 38 -

performance/impact        service gaps                                      HNPSP preparation
ii) Planning, monitoring Centralized process       Nor clear                Not operational in a
and budgeting authority                                                     systematic manner;
for annual ESP cycle                                                        some localized
devolved to local level
and maintained by
participant
decision-makers
 iii) Multi-level         Bifurcated system for    Unified MIS              MIS for FP and Health
ESP-based M&E System      MIS                                               were not unified.
established based on                                                        Interim project data
impact and output                                                           gaps were partially
indicators and                                                              covered by periodic
assumptions, and MIS                                                        surveys financed by DPs
adapted to support the
system
 iv) Financial,           Bifurcated systems       Unified systems; with    Program re-enforced
disbursement and                                   good governance          FMAU established but
expenditure control                                                         became disfunctional in
systems established and                                                     2003; . Numbers of
operational                                                                 annual audit
                                                                            observations abnormally
                                                                            high and GoB slow to
                                                                            resolve
                                                                            Program highly
                                                                            dependant on HPSO for
                                                                            financial controsl.
                                                                            However, disbursements
                                                                            usually met annual
                                                                            targets.
5. Policy and Regulatory
Framework strengthened
**
 i) GoB, private and      Quality assurance issues Quality supervised in    Performance standards,
NGO technical             identified; non          public, non              monitoring system and
performance guidelines    supervised health care   governmental and for     enforcement not
and standards policy      delivery; risks to       profit health sector for developed (see text)
established, enforced and efficacy and             quality and efficiency
monitored at all levels   affordability by poor
 ii) Patient Charter of   Issue identified         Charter issued and       Not developed
Rights adopted and                                 enforced
disseminated
** Indicators taken from PAD, Annex 1




                                                   - 39 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                                                         Percentage
                                                                         Estim ate        Estim a te
                                                                                                         of Appraisal
C o m p o n e n t                                                       U S $ m illion   U S $ m illion

    A . S E R V I C E S D E L I V E R Y A N D P O L I C Y R E F O R M
1. Essential Service Package (ESP)                                            1,624.76         1,772.41          109%
2. Hospital Severices                                                            348.00           345.94          99%
3. Other Public Health Services                                                     9.56            20.18        211%
4. Other Health and Nutrition Services                                           254.00           213.59          84%
5. Integrated Support Services                                                   629.00           467.39          74%
    Human Resources Development (HRD)                                            141.58             10.09          7%
    Facilities                                                                   336.66           356.43         106%
    Procurement and Logistics                                                    109.63             75.32         69%
   Quality Assurance                                                                1.96             2.42        124%
   Behaviour Change Communication (BCC)                                            19.10             8.07         42%
   Management Information System (MIS)                                             10.58             5.92         56%
   Researh and Development                                                          9.49             9.15         96%
6. Policy and Regulations                                                           7.00             1.08         15%
B . O R G A N I Z A T I O N A N D M A N A G E M E N T R E F O R M
1. Reorganization of Service Delivery                                               3.55             1.88         53%
2. Sectorwide Management                                                           19.98            13.32         67%


T O T A L                                                                     2,895.85         2,835.79           98%



Note: Actual/Lastest Estimates are estimated by aligning Line Directorate Operational Plans with project
components, and aggregating realized costs as values of Statement of Expenditure (SoE)s for these Plans
for last seven years of project implementation. Amounts converted to dollars at an exchange rate equal to
the average rate of BDTaka.56.3415 = US$1.00.




                                                                      - 40 -

Project Financing by Categories (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                Percentage of Appraisal
       Categories                Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
                             IDA        Govt.        CoF.       IDA         Govt.      CoF.       IDA    Govt.  CoF.
Goods, Supplies, Civil       64.50     2453.45      88.96      85.57       2445.51     52.90     132.7   99.7    59.5
Works and Operating
Costs

Drugs, Vaccines and         145.20                  58.33      101.41                  69.50     69.8           119.1
Contraceptives

Diagnostic and Surgical      23.50                  26.46      22.85                   9.85      97.2            37.2
Goods, and Ambulance

Consultants' Services and    14.40                  12.84      18.25                   12.25     126.7           95.4
Training

NGO Support                  2.40                    5.85       3.34                   6.04      139.2          103.2

Goods/Civil Works of Part                                       6.59                   1.74
D.
Total                       250.00     2453.45     192.44      238.01      2445.51    152.28     95.2    99.7    79.1

  November 23, 2005 Data
      Note:

      (1) "Appraisal Estimates" were given in the DCA only for the first project year : for the IDA portions
      were US$27.0 million for category 1; US$20.0       million for category 2; US$2.7 million for category
      3; US$2.0 million for category 4; US$0.5 million for category 5; and US$197.8 million unallocated.
      The final estimate shown in the table represents the aggregate of allocations IDA and Trust Fund funds
      to cost categories made annually as part of the annual program review process. Data gathered from the
      World Bank Client Connection database. All figures net of cancellations

      (2) Category 6: Goods/Civil Works of Part D. was created for the Post Flood Rehabilitation in 1999.

      (3) The financing from Government sources at appraisal and actual estimates include the GoB Revenue
      and Development budgets, and financing fromUN agencies and additional non-pool donors.

      (4) The actual/latest estimates were based on the MOHFW's Statement of Expenditure (SoE)s and
  Operational Plans for last seven years of project implementation.




                                                      - 41 -

Table 3: Disbursements by Year 1999-00 to 2004-05
   IDA and Pooled Financiers; US$, millions

    Fiscal Years                   IDA            Other Pooled   Total
                                                   Financiers
    FY 1999-00**                  109.4              26.7        136.1
    FY 2000-01                     37.6              17.6        55.2
   FY 2001-02                      34.4               8.5        42.9
   FY 2002-03                      18.8              36.4        55.2
   FY 2003-04                       1.8              37.4        39.2
   FY 2004-05                      22.0              11.1        33.1
   Total Disbursed                 224.0             137.7       361.7
   Total Un-disbursed              26.0               0.2        26.2
   Total Financing Available       250.0             137.9       387.9




                                            - 42 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 43 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1/28/1996 -              13     Including representatives of 5
              2/11/1996 and                   consortium donors
              3/2/1996 -
              3-18-1996
              8/29/1996 -              12     Including 56 representatives of
              9/19/199                        consortium of 15 donors
              2/20/1997 -              14     Including 70 representatives of
              3/6/1997                        consortium of 13 donors


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal 2/12/98
              Negotiation
              5/18/98

 Supervision
              PSR 03/23/1999             1    TTL                                     U               S
              APR 04/18/1999 -          10    Team Leader (Sr. Population             S               S
              05/02/1999                      Specialist) (1); Financial
                                              Analyst (1); Procurement
                                              Specialist (1); Disbursement
                                              Officer (1); Financial
                                              Management Specialist (1); Lead
                                              HD Specialist (1); Operations
                                              Officer (2); Sr. Population
                                              Adviser (1); Management
                                              Specialist (1)
              PSR 6/24/1999              1    TTL                                     S               S
              APR 11/18/1999 -           3    Team Leader (Sr. Population             U               S
              12/09/1999                      Specialist) (1); Lead HD
                                              Specialist (1); Operations Officer
                                              (1)
              PSR 1/13/2000              1    TTL                                     U               S
              APR 3-4/2000                    (size and professional                  U               S
                                              composition of Review Team not
                                              available
              PSR 6/14/2000              1    TTL                                     S               S
              PSR 10/25/2000             1    TTlL                                    S               S
              PSR 12/17/2000             1    TTL                                     S               S
              Technical Review           4    Team Leader (Sr. Population             S               S
              04/01/2001 -                    Specialist) (1); Sr. Institutional
              06/21/2001                      Development Specialist (1): Sr.
                                              Public Health Specialist (1): Sr
                                              Operations Officer (1)
              PSR 6/25/2001              1    TTL                                     S               S



                                               - 44 -

            APR                           12   Team covered Public Health          S           S
            10/20-11/2/2001                    Services (3); Logistics and
                                               Organization (1); Human
                                               Resources Development (3);
                                               Behavior Change
                                               Communications (2); Monitoring
                                               Systems (2); Financial
                                               Management (1)
            PSR 12/12/2001                 1   TTL                                 S           S
            APR 5 and 6/2002                   (size and professional
                                               composition of Review Team not
                                               available
            PSR 6/23/2002                  1   TTL                                 S           S
            PSR 12/22/2002                 1   TTL                                 S           S
            APR 1/12-27/2003               9   (professional composition of
                                               review Team not available)
            PSR 6/25/2003                  1   TTL                                 S           S
            PSR 12/23/2003                 1   TTL                                 S           S
            PSR 6/22/2004                  1   TTL                                 S           S
            PSR 12/28/2004                 1   TTL                                 S           S
            APR 4/3/2005 -                10   Sr. Economist (Health) (1); Lead    S           S
            4/26/2005                          Public Health Spec. (1); Sr.
                                               Counsel (1); Program Assistant
                                               (1); Consultants (procurement
                                               and Disbursement (2), Sr.
                                               Financial Management Specialist
                                               (1); Senior Finance Officer (1);
                                               Health Specialist (1); Research
                                               Assistant (1)
            ISR 7/29/2005                  1   TTL                                 S           S

 ICR
            09/26/2005 -                  5     Team Leader (Sr. Public
            10/06/2005                          Health Specialist) (1);
                                                Consultant (Project Adviser)
                                                (1); Operations Officer (1);
                                                Public Health Specialist (1);
                                                Team Assistant (1);


Supervision work performed mainly through the Resident Mission, Dhaka as an ongoing process.
PSRs produced by TTL in Dhaka on a regular basis from on-site knowledge. Substantive formal
supervision was conducted as part of Annual Performance Reviews supported by
out-of-country staff and consultants, replacing traditional "mission" approach. The Health
Program Support Office (HPSO) which was financed by the 6 donors contributing to the
financing pool, including IDA (accounting for 60% of the cost) included the TTL in all years, and
also provided in-country supervision of procurement and financial management; with staffing of
between 7 staff years per year (except 1998-99 and 2000-01).




                                               - 45 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               35                           82
  Appraisal/Negotiation                166.1                           577
  Supervision                        447.19                          1,048
  ICR                                      20                           41
  Total                                  668                         1,748




                                            - 46 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Health Status
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 47 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
In order to harmonize project performance criteria between ICRs and OED evaluations, OPCS has
updated ICR guidelines to include the same rating scale. However, the ICR template has not been
updated. Thus, although harmonized criteria are used in the text, ICR tables continue to use the
previous rating scale.




                                                    - 48 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Development Partners and Government of Bangladesh: Annual Program Reviews
       1. April 19-May 2, 1999; Aide Memoire and Technical Review
       2. November 1999; Aide Memoire
       3. April 2000; Aide Memoire and Review of Operational Plans
       4. April 2001; Technical Review (Measham and Merrick, WB)
       5. October 20-November 2, 2001; Aide Memoire and Technial Review
       6. June 2002; Aide Memoire and Independent Technical Team Report
       7. January 12-26, 2003; Aide Memoire and Independent Technical Report
          (an APR was not conducted in 2004)
       8. April 3-26, 2005; Aide Memoire and Independent Technical Report
       9. Sept-Oct 2004. End of Programme Review of HPSO
       10. January 2003, Status of Performance Indicators, 2002, Streatfield, P.K., Mercer, A.,
Siddique, A.B., Khan, Z.U.A., Ashraf, A.

Government of Bangladesh:
       1. High Level commission on Organization and Management of Health and Family
       Planning Sector; September 1997
       2. Health and Population Sector Strategy, January 1997
       3. Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division (IMED): HPSP Evaluation;
       February 2003
       4. Action Plan for Completion of Agreed Reform Agenda; July, 2003
       5. Assessment of the Community Clinic: Effects on Service Delivery, Utilization and
       Quality of Services, Charles Normand, Mustak Hassan Md. Iftekhar, and Syed Asizur
       Rahman, November 2002, Health System Development Program, Health Economics Unit,
       MOHFW

Canada (CIDA)
       1. The Third Service Delivery Survey 2003, CIETcanada and MOHFW, Dhaka, March
2004.

Netherlands
       1. IMEconsult; Review of the Health Program Support Office (HPSO); July 2002

United Kingdom (DFID)
       1. Institute for Health Sector Development; Management Capacity Appraisal for Sector
       Wide Management; October 1977
       2. Health Systems Resource Center; End of Program Review- HPSO; October 2004
       3. Project Completion Report, August 9, 2004

World Bank
       1. Identification Mission Report; January, 1996
       2. Initial Executive Project Summary, February 8, 1996
       3. First Preparation Mission Report; March 2-18, 1996



                                             - 49 -

      4. Reconnaissance Mission on Health and Population Sector Strategy; May, 1996
      5. Second Preparation Mission Report, February 20-March 6, 1997
      6. Pre Appraisal Mission Report, September 1997
      7. Pre Appraisal Mission Reports; February 12-March 25, 1998
      8. Project Appraisal Report (approved) June 1, 1998
      9. Development Credit Agreement, June 30, 1998
      10. Project Status Reports/ Implementation Status Reports; 3/99; 6/99;1/00;6/00;
10/00/12/00; 6/01; 12/01; 6/02/ 12/02; 6/03; 12/03; 6/04; 12/04; 6/05; 7/05
      11. QAG Quality of Supervision Assessment, QSA3, July 21, 1999
      12. OED: Maintaining Momentum to 2015? An Impact Evaluation of. Interventions to
Improve Maternal and Child Health in Bangladesh, August 2005
      13. Project Appraisal Document; Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Program, March
2005
      14. Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy, Health, March 2003
      15. Correspondence and Memoranda; 2003, 2004 covering: proposal to impose partial
suspension; decision to impose partial suspension; proposals for lifting partial suspension;
Government of Bangladesh agreement to conditions lifting partial suspension
      16. Independent Procurement Review (Draft). Bangladesh. May, 2005. Contract No.
7133184, SGS Nederland B.V.

Other:
      1. Use of Family Planning Services in the Transition to a Static Clinic System in
Bangladesh: 1998-2002. Alex Mercer, Ali Ashraf, Nafisa Lira Huq, Fariha Hasseen, AH
Nowsher Uddin and Masud Reza. International Family Planning Perspectives 31:3, Sept. 2005.




                                              - 50 -

- 51 -

