                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001695



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H0350)



                                      ON A

                                     GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 28.9 MILLION
                       (US$ 39.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                         GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA

                                     FOR A

     SECOND COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT



                                  June 29, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Urban, Water, and Disaster Risk Management Unit
Sri Lanka Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 8, 2011)

                    Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupees

                          LKR 1.00 = US$ 0.009
                           S$ 1.00 = LKR 110

                            FISCAL YEAR
                           April 1 – March 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBO     Community Based Organization
CDD     Community Demand Driven
CWSSP   Community Water Supply and Sanitation-1
DGA     Development Grant Agreement
EIA     Environmental Impact Evaluation
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
GND     Grama Niladhari Division
GOSL    Government of Sri Lanka
ICRR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA     International Development Association
MTR     Mid-Term Review
MVS     Multi Village Schemes
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NE      North East
NRWSS   National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
NWSDB   National Water Supply and Drainage Board
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
O&M     Operating and Maintenance
OPCS    Operations Policy and Country Services
PC      Provincial Council
PDO     Project Development Objective
PO      Partner Organization
PS      Pradeshiya Sabha
QAE     Quality at Entry
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (continued)


RLS    Regaining Sri Lanka: Vision and Strategy for Accelerated Development
RWSS   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SEA    Sectoral Environmental Assessment
SRF    Sanitation Revolving Fund
WSS    Water Supply and Sanitation
     Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
   Country Director: Diarietou Gaye
    Sector Manager: Ming Zhang
Project Team Leader: Samantha Prasada Wijesundera
  ICR Team Leader: Raghava Neti
                                    SRI LANKA
                  Second Community Water Supply and Sanitation Project




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component & Other supporting information ............................. 23
  Annex 3. Economic Analysis........................................................................................ 27
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 38
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 40
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 41
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 42
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 56
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 57
  MAP (IBRD 38649)
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Second Community
Country:                Sri Lanka               Project Name:             Water Supply and
                                                                          Sanitation Project
Project ID:             P058067                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H0350
ICR Date:               06/30/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          SRI LANKA (GOSL)
Original Total
                        XDR 28.9M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 28.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 28.9M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Urban Development and Water Supply
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/05/2001     Effectiveness:             08/25/2003        08/25/2003
Appraisal:            12/04/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/06/2003     Mid-term Review:           10/09/2006        10/09/2006
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2009        12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     10                   15
Other social services                                                 10                     5
Sanitation                                                            35                   15
Sub-national government administration                                10                   15
Water supply                                                          35                   50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                      14                   10
Other human development                                               14                   20
Participation and civic engagement                                    14                   20
Pollution management and environmental health                         29                   20
Rural services and infrastructure                                     29                   30

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          Diarietou Gaye                       Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager:            Ming Zhang                           Sonia Hammam
Project Team Leader:       Samantha Prasada Wijesundera         Toshiaki Keicho
ICR Team Leader:           Raghava Neti
ICR Primary Author:        Raghava Neti




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To increase service coverage and achieve effective and sustained use of water and
sanitation services in rural communities in Sri Lanka.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)          Values       Target Years
                  Number of people in rural areas provided with access to improved water sources
Indicator 1 :
                  under the project
Value
quantitative or   0                         1.1 million        719,700         384,100
Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/25/2003                08/25/2003         05/14/2010      12/31/2010
Comments
                  53% achievement with respect to revised targets. Lower achievements are due to
(incl. %
                  the revised targets being unrealistic, as stated in Section 2.2.
achievement)
                  New piped household water connections that are resulting from the project
Indicator 2 :
                  intervention
Value
quantitative or   0                         Not Assessed       162,300         92,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/25/2003                08/25/2003         05/14/2010      12/31/2010
Comments
                  57% households conneted wtih respect to revised targets. Lower achievements
(incl. %
                  are due to the revised targets being unrealistic, as stated in Section 2.2.
achievement)
                  Number and type of beneficiaries and their level of satisfaction with completed
Indicator 3 :
                  systems
Value
quantitative or   0                         80%                                88%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/25/2003                06/29/2008                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          As per an Independent Audit conducted at project completion.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Improved Water points constructed or rehabilitated under the project
Value
quantitative or   0                         Not Assessed       1121            922
Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/25/2003                08/25/2003         05/14/2010      12/31/2010


                                                  iii
Comments
(incl. %          82% achived.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                        Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of water supply subprojects completed and operational
Value
(quantitative     0                           940                 812           709
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/25/2003                  07/23/2004          05/14/2010    12/31/2010
Comments
                  87% completed with respect to original targets due to the reasons stated in
(incl. %
                  Section 2.2.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Number of latrines constructed and operational.
Value
(quantitative     0                           50,000              54,500        45,660
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/25/2003                  02/03/2005          05/14/2010    12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          83% households have access to safe latrines.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                            IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
 1      06/30/2003             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
 2      08/25/2003             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
 3      02/19/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     2.28
 4      07/23/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     2.50
 5      02/03/2005             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     3.85
 6      08/12/2005             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     5.03
 7      03/29/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   12.90
 8      10/24/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   16.69
 9      05/19/2007             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   21.28
 10     11/29/2007             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   25.49
 11     06/29/2008             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   29.06
 12     12/23/2008             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   33.05
 13     05/29/2009             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   34.91
 14     11/29/2009             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   41.38
 15     05/14/2010             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   43.28


                                                    iv
 16    06/21/2011   Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory   43.61


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Sri Lanka is a densely populated island nation of about 19 million people, off the
southern tip of India. About 80 percent of Sri Lanka’s population and 90 percent of the
country’s poor live in rural areas. A significant proportion of the poor also lives in the
tea/rubber estates of the central region. Sri Lanka has many strengths, including leading
developing countries in recognizing the importance of education, health and gender
equality for development. Sri Lanka also has a long standing strength in social
mobilization.

At the time of appraisal, Water and Sanitation service levels were low, with only about
40 percent of the village and small town population having private access to safe water
sources. In the estates, almost 70 percent of the population source their water from rivers,
ponds and streams. Around 30 percent of the population in villages and small towns, and
more than 60 percent of the estate population do not have access to a sanitary latrine.
Rainfall varies between 2500-1500 mm, dividing the country into wet and dry zones,
with the latter being in the North, East and South-East. Ground water was increasingly
being used for potable water, especially in small towns and rural areas. Pollution of
ground water is present in certain areas, which comes from nitrates, fluorides and
bacteriological contamination. Sri Lanka’s protracted conflict has resulted in a significant
humanitarian problem, particularly in the North East (NE). Incidentally, this region also
faces chronic water supply issues being in a dry zone.

The Bank played a major role in the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) sector,
introducing the community based approach in Sri Lanka on a larger scale1. Back in 1993-
98, the Bank had financed the first community rural water supply and sanitation project
(CWSSP) in Sri Lanka, which initiated the concept of community contribution towards
capital cost. The Community Driven Development (CDD) approaches successfully
developed, tested and refined during this project implementation have been adopted
subsequently by the Asian Development Bank funded project in six other districts.

Learning from these experiences, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) had established a
goal of providing access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation to its rural population
(about 19 million in 2001) by the year 2010, through its National Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation policy (2001). This policy aimed to decentralize the responsibilities to local
governments, build their capacity, and involve rural community in planning,
implementation, operation and maintenance of RWSS investments and services.
The second CWSS Project was designed to help the Government implement and further
refine its policy, based on the implementation lessons.



1
 Report No. 18113: Sri Lanka Impact Evaluation Report, Community Water Supply and Sanitation project
(Credit 2442-CE).


                                                 1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

To increase service coverage and achieve effective and sustained use of water and
sanitation services in rural communities in Sri Lanka.
        Key Indicators
    • Percent population in the project area with access to water delivery point within
        200m of residence;
    • Percent population in project area with access to functioning and hygienic
        sanitation system within 50 m of residence;
    • Number and types of beneficiaries and their level of satisfaction with completed
        systems; and
    • Reduced incidence and severity of diarrheal episodes in beneficiary communities
        Intermediate Indicators
        • Number of water supply subprojects completed and operational; and
        • Number of latrines constructed and operational.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. The Key indicators have been changed as below, to align with
the Core International Development Association (IDA) water sector indicators.

    1. Number of people in project areas with access to Improved Water Sources;
    2. Number of new piped household water connections that are resulting from the
       project intervention;
    3. Number and types of beneficiaries and their level of satisfaction with completed
       systems; and
    4. Improved community water points constructed or rehabilitated under the project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiary target group was the rural residents in the Central, North West
and North East Provincial Councils. Details are below:

Group                                                         Original Target         Revised Target2
Central and NW PC, including beneficiaries                    1.1 million             719,700
from some ongoing schemes in Kurunegala
district of North West province
Communities in North East Province                            130,000                 73,783
Communities in estate sector and small towns3                 NA                      7656


2
  Based on detailed baseline collection from the Grama Niladhari Divisions (GNDs) and revisions
consequent to reallocation of funds to support Tsunami Emergency Reconstruction Project.
3
  This was designed as pilot, given the challenges. A study to prepare strategies to support small towns was
taken up, but could not be completed with a clear strategy, and hence no investment support was provided
to small towns.


                                                     2
The primary target group was expected to come together as Community Based
Organizations (CBOs), and participate in planning, implementation and operation and
maintenance of the RWSS services; thereby improving their ownership and sustainability
of these services.

The secondary beneficiaries included the local governments, mainly Pradeshiya Sabhas
(PSs) and Provincial Councils (PCs), whose capacity was expected to be built for
facilitating RWSS services in villages. The other group of secondary beneficiaries
included the community in the Hambantota District of the Southern Province, where
water resources of the Kirindi Oya basin were proposed to be augmented by GOSL, for
which a study was to be taken up4 under the project, to identify feasible investments.

1.5 Original Components

The project consisted of four components, costing US$62.4M as below. Component
details are in Annex-2.

Component A: Physical Investments (US$38.4M)
Component B: Implementation Support (US$4.4M)
Component C: Program Management and Capacity Building (US$12.6M)
Component D: North East Provincial Council (US$7.0M)

1.6 Revised Components

There were no changes to the project components, except that some of the activities could
not progress as indicated below.

Comp         Activity               Reasons
A            Service improvements inNo clear strategy was prepared during project
             Small towns            implementation, and the project had to reallocate
                                    US$7 million for the Tsunami Emergency
                                    operation. Hence no investments were financed
                                    finally.
C        Hambantota District        GOSL took up the study on their own and
         Water Resource             proceeded with implementation of works without
         augmentation study         Bank clearance on Environmental Impact
                                    Assessment. Hence the investments were not
                                    financed by the Bank. See details in Section 2.4.
C        Incremental Operating      The Development Grant Agreement (DGA) was
         Costs                      amended in November 2005 to change the
                                    definition of Incremental Operating Cost and also to
                                    enable disbursements against the Tsunami-related
                                    emergency equipment.
The changes were minor, and did not have any negative impact on achieving the PDOs,
and hence did not warrant Board review.

4
    The study was finally taken up by GoSL, without Bank support. See Section 1.6.


                                                      3
1.7 Other significant changes

The project has faced the following significant changes:
• North-Eastern Region: The original NE PC was split into two separate PCs, and the
   DGA was amended in the middle of 2007 reflecting this. Also due to the continuing
   security issues in this region, the project area was moved to the relatively safer
   locations within the NE province, to Trincomalee and Ampara districts.
• Reallocations: The Tsunami of December 2004 made it necessary to reallocate about
   US$7 million from the project to the IDA financed Tsunami Emergency Recovery
   Project. Funds were allocated to a separate disbursement category (Part Z), through
   which disbursements happened. To that extent, the project funds got reduced (revised
   totals at the end equivalent to SDR24.20 M against the original SDR28.9 M.5
• Extension of the closing date: The closing date of the Credit was extended by 18
   months, from June 30, 2009 to December 31, 2010, to enable completion of ongoing
   works.
• Change of Ministries of RWSS central unit: The RWSS central unit at the national
   level had been under different ministries (Ministry of Housing and Plantations,
   Ministry of Urban Development and Water Supply, Ministry of Urban Development
   & Sacred Area Development, and Ministry of Water Supply and Drainage),
   throughout the project implementation.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Overarching goals: The project supported the goal of GOSL to ensure access to safe
drinking water supply and adequate sanitation to its rural population by the year 2010, as
per its National RWSS Policy of 2001, through decentralization. The project was also
aligned with GOSL’s economic program and poverty reduction strategy: Regaining Sri
Lanka: Vision and Strategy for Accelerated Development (RSL) that aimed to invest in
people; empower the poor and strengthen governance; and implement an effective
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system. The project’s objectives were consistent with
the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy of 2003 for Sri Lanka, which aimed at: (i)
improved access to and quality of public services – water supply; and (ii) expanded
degree of empowerment of communities to address their own development needs; and
complemented developmental efforts in the North-East in support of ongoing peace
process.

Project Design Issues: The project, prepared over three years, reflected the experiences
from the first CWSSP6 (closed in December 1998); mainly with respect to providing
legal recognition to the CBOs, involving women in the CBOs and selection of better
qualified Partner Organizations (POs). The project’s key contribution was on the


5
    This will not be exactly US$7M less due to exchange rate differences over project implementation period.

6
    Implemented in the southern districts of Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura.


                                                      4
institutional side (see Section 3.5 (b)). The Sanitation Revolving Fund concept has been
well designed based on international experiences, which helped in expanding sanitation
coverage in the villages. Similarly, inclusion of Estate Sector pilot was an attempt to
expand WSS services to many of the poorest members of the society, living in the estates.

In terms of scope for improvements in project design, a deeper analysis on affordability
of the communities – particularly with respect to their project capital cost contributions
along with contributions for house connections7; and of the local governments –
particularly the Pradeshiya Sabha’s; would have helped in effective implementation.
While the project had not envisaged evolution of Multi-Village Schemes (MVSs), they
had to be taken up due to water source constraints in some villages, and thus the project
had to deal with the complexities of their implementation. The inclusion of pilots for
small towns and the estate sector, whilst laudable, did make the project more complicated
and probably explains why these pilots were limited (estates) or non-existent (small
towns). The team could not have envisaged the full complexities of the social dimension
of the issues faced in the Kotiyagala estate, which were only learned through the pilot
implementation. The North-East component was included in the project at the last minute
rolling out the program in that area. However, the conflict and the social fragmentation in
that region have delayed project implementation. This might require tailored participatory
approaches and facilitation suitable to that area.

Government/Stakeholder commitment: At the project start, there was firm commitment
by the GOSL to the decentralization agenda as reflected in the National RWSS policy –
which was the culmination of extensive consultations undertaken with the GOSL and
other donors to reach agreement on an appropriate institutional framework for the RWSS
sector. Ownership of the beneficiary community was reflected through a strong response
to cash/labor contribution requirements under the first CWSSP, which was substantially
achieved/exceeded in a number of communities under that project.

Project Risks: Project Risk assessment at appraisal was generally adequate except that
the risk mitigation actions on financial resource capacities of the local governments –
especially the PSs – turned out to be insufficient. Risks related to Monitoring and
Evaluation Capacities of the local governments have not been assessed, and the M&E
system under the project turned out to be unreliable.

A Quality at Entry assessment was done by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) of the
Bank in June 2003, which gave an overall rating of “Satisfactory”. Further details are in
Section 5.1.

2.2 Implementation

Implementation Efficiency: The project implementation was planned in four successive
batches, with a six-year implementation time frame, with the North-East component to
join after an initial study. This has allowed for building on the momentum slowly, based
on implementation experiences. By the original closing date (June 2009), except in the

7
    See details under Section 2.2 Implementation, other factors.


                                                       5
North East, schemes in almost all the four batches had completed implementation. An
eighteen-months extension was needed to complete MVSs and to accommodate slow
implementation performance of the North-East component.

North-East Component: The security situation in the North-East, coupled with the
Tsunami December 2004 which struck this region, impeded progress in that area, with
the result that the project had to move to safer areas (Trincimalee, Ampara districts) in
the same region for implementation, as decided after the Mid-Term Review (MTR). This
region continued to face problems8 of social conflicts, lack of coordination amongst
stakeholders, lack of labor contributions, low capacities of local governments for
implementation and capital contribution and difficulty for mobilizing consultants and
POs, etc. Some measures to improve implementation such as having new community
facilitators, new Project Director for the RWSS Division in the PC, and an
implementation support consultant were implemented only towards the end of the project.

Reallocations: The Tsunami has also prompted reallocation of project funds (see Section
1.7) resulting in the reduction of project targets.

Other Factors: CBO performance: By the end of the project, CBOs have become an
important link to connect the communities with various development initiatives in the
villages. Some of the CBOs have started federating at provincial and national levels,
lending voice to these groups as a whole. See further details in Annex-2.

House connection uptake: The original project intended to provide only public stand
posts as the basic standard of service. Provision of house connections was not intended –
which choice was left to the communities, and those willing had to bear the additional
costs. But later in the project, the key PDO indicators were changed, with one indicator
linked to achievement of progress on household connections, which reached about 53
percent level by project completion, even as 95 percent of the targeted households
showed preference for pipe connections initially at scheme design stage (Refer: Annex-
3). The key reasons for slow progress are: i) cost increments – some households were
unable to afford the cost of connection and meters, which became too high for them
consequent to price escalation9; ii) lag between scheme completion and connections – the
third and fourth batches, which had largely completed just about the closing date
constitute about 77 percent of the total subprojects and 84 percent of the household
targets. In these batches, the schemes were built, ready for the households to connect.
However a lag of about six months to one year is expected for reaching full potential
connections; iii) some households continue to depend on own sources – they are likely to
connect in case their sources go dry. An independent audit (conducted by a consultant
hired by the Bank on the project covering about 100 subprojects, covering 3074
households in 105 Grama Niladhari Divisions (GNDs) assessed that, on an average, about



8
  Ampara was better off.
9
  The wholesale prices doubled in Sri Lanka from the time of project appraisal to project closure, due to
input scarcity resulting from Tsunami (See details in Annex-3). Together with the project’s capital cost
contributions, bearing cost of house connections became unaffordable to some households.


                                                     6
18 percent of the targeted households are unwilling to connect to the systems at project
closing.

In addition, even the formally revised targets (see Data Sheet, Section F) are on the
higher side compared to those achievable within the project implementation period due to
three reasons: i) about 7 percent of schemes have been abandoned before their
commencement, but the targets have not been revised to exclude them – these schemes
have been abandoned due to various reasons such as lack of electricity connections,
issues with regard to finding water sources and schemes being transferred to the National
Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) etc; ii) targets include future population –
the schemes have been built to serve the future population, which is about 20 percent
higher than the current. The targets include service to this future population as well,
which obviously cannot be realized by project completion; and iii) cost inflation and
consequent affordability issue to some households – which results in targets not being
achievable before project completion.

Sufficient attention should have been paid during implementation to address this issue of
low connection uptake and to rationalize the project targets, as it is reflecting on the
overall project performance.

Counterpart funding delays by the GOSL at one instance led to implementation issues in
several PSs, including CBOs having to borrow from moneylenders to continue
construction, or PCs having advanced project funds in lieu of using the expected
contribution by the PSs. PCs and PSs were supposed to provide 5 percent each towards
the cost of the sub-projects. In general, the PSs contribution was short of the mark,
requiring some of the CBOs to contribute more than their allocated share. The
independent audit in sample GNDs showed that PSs have contributed an average of 2
percent. The Bank teams have adequately highlighted these risks during project
implementation and suggested alternatives.

Sanitation Revolving Fund (SRF) has facilitated expansion of sanitation coverage
impressively, with 78 percent of targets of providing safe latrine access to households
being achieved at project completion (Source: GOSL monitoring data). Across the
project, the average loan recovery rate was around 76 percent (Source: GOSL ICRR
report). Some community members have mobilized various other sources of financing
apart from the revolving fund for building toilets. See additional details in Annex-2.

Estate Sector sub-component, though initially appeared to be running smoothly, has faced
problems during implementation, with the estate management not being ready to
contribute costs and social issues cropping up between the population in different
divisions of one estate (Kotiyagala). With this experience, the Bank team advised GOSL
not to go for the final phase of investment but continued helping the implementing
agencies to identify solutions for various technical and social issues, and by participating
in dialogue with various stakeholders.

Operating & Maintenance Issues (O&M): As per the independent audit, 83 percent of the
schemes are reported to be financially sustainable, as they generate sufficient revenues to

                                             7
recover O&M costs. Even as some of the GNDs have been receiving 24x7 supplies,
O&M issues were still a challenge at project completion. Some of the CBOs have gone
for the high O&M cost diesel pump set option because of the lack of electrical
connections (whose cost was not included in the project cost initially) – this will threaten
financial sustainability. Domestic water meters are being used widely (choice left to
community) but without backup calibration/repair support facility near-by – they may fail
and lead to billing problems. Other challenges include some of the sources showing low
yield, and the need to strengthen formal third party CBO audit mechanism – which
presently requires CBOs to submit annual audits to PSs. Going forward, GOSL needs to
think of an adequate back-up institutional support mechanism to the CBOs, even though
it is understood that Central and North-Western provinces have made budget allocations
for retaining the RWSS units beyond the project (Source: GOSL ICRR report).

A Mid-Term Review (MTR) was conducted in October 2006. By then implementation
has been almost completed in the first two batches, firmly proving the strength of the
processes adopted. The Bank team used the opportunity to initiate discussions on the
larger role that RWSSD can play in the sector on planning, policy and oversight
functions10. The team urged the GOSL to establish a sector-wide monitoring program to
facilitate oversight of sector performance, enable analysis of costs/standards and goals for
RWSS, and to allow early identification and resolution of possible sector issues.

Government Commitment was there all through (except for some delays in counterpart
funding), as agreed actions were generally implemented in time, and national sanitation
policy and metering policy were drafted following the suggestions from the Bank team.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design: An M&E system was developed during project preparation, focusing on tracking
of the quality of implementation through outputs. Some of the outcome indicators,
identified during appraisal, were not suitable for easy annual monitoring. For instance,
the indicator on health was dropped (recommended by QAG) as it is not easy to measure
without surveys. Equally, percentages were converted to simple numbers during mid-
term review, as percentages require information on households other than those served.
With the introduction of the Bank’s Operations Policy and Country Services core sector
indicators, further changes were made to the indicators to make them compatible.

Implementation and Utilization: Soon after the project launch computers were purchased
for the local governments, but the computer-based M&E system faced start-up problems.
During the course of implementation too, it faced numerous problems with the system not
being used. The computer-based M&E approach was abandoned by the RWSS Division
during early implementation, stating that the system was faulty. It took the RWSS
Division almost three years to replace the former system with a new one. RWSS units in
the PCs needed to be retrained accordingly, and the strategy of implementation changed
to have only RWSS units in the PCs being responsible for data entry, instead of PSs as
envisioned during preparation. At the PSs, a parallel paper-based system evolved for

10
     QAG team also recommended this.


                                             8
monthly reporting. But there were delays or erroneous data entry by the PSs. Data
reliability of the system was a constant nagging problem, highlighted by various Bank
missions. Establishing a computerized system down to the PS level originally, before
they got into the habit of regularly collecting information from the GNDs, and updating
the PCs etc proved to be too ambitious. Focusing on a two level simplified system from
the beginning, based on the capacities of PSs/PCs/RWSSD at the central level, with
supporting designated staff would have helped.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental: The project required “B” categorization, but for a water resource study
for Hambantota district, which promoted “A” categorization (See details in Annex-2).
The Hambantota study was finally taken up by GOSL, and hence Bank policies related to
Category “A” were not finally applicable.

Overall, environmental management issues including the Hambantota issue were given
due attention by the Bank team. The Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA)
highlighted the issues of water scarcity and quality in the RWSS sector (see Annex-2 for
details of the program designed to address these issues). Water scarcity issues were
expected to be managed through the environmental program at the village level (details in
Annex-2). The activities under this program, particularly the source protection works,
were taken up in a limited extent. Their implementation has, however faced constraints
due to limited funding provided and low capacities at the local government level. The
program had little impact on source protection. Water quality: The POs have provided
satisfactory hygiene education to the community under the project, under the
environmental program at the household level (details in Annex-2). Test kits were
procured and distributed to the community along with supportive training. A water
quality monitoring strategy was developed by GOSL during implementation (details in
Annex-2). However, with significant samples at village level showing negative results
(details in Annex-2), ongoing water quality management and monitoring at that level has
to be improved, which is still work in progress.

The innovative concept of Sanitation Revolving Fund (SRF) helped in expanding the
access to sanitation facilities in the villages, as explained in Section 2.2. RWSSD has
prepared a best practice note on this which should be useful for future programs.

Social: There were no major social issues identified during project implementation. The
project has promoted involvement of women, brought together the community in the
villages through CBOs and helped some community members to take up initiatives
beyond water and sanitation, such as establishing local shops, boutiques, home gardens
etc. However, the North-East region posed peculiar challenges in terms of social
conflicts, families affected by security situation, and cultural issues, etc. Due to this,
getting labor for works and bringing the whole community as a homogenous CBO
became a challenge, which affected implementation. These issues need special focus in
the next RWSS initiative in the region.




                                             9
Procurement: The project involved small works, which did not involve major
procurement. Most project procurement was the responsibility of the villages,
coordinated by the PSs/PCs. Almost all civil works were done by the community
themselves and the quality of works is good. The goods/materials were procured through
National Competitive Bidding (NCB)/shopping procedures. Delays in training, and the
absence of a dedicated procurement nodal officer for considerable period at the RWSS
Division have affected overall procurement management, as the Post Procurement
Reviews highlighted general weaknesses in this area. At the Credit closing, two cases of
misprocurement were declared.

Financial Management: At appraisal, there was “Substantial” risk rating on the CBOs,
local institutions’ capacity to handle financial management issues – which was addressed
through training and capacity building. The PSs initially and the RWSS Division
continually have faced turnover of staff. The covenant of establishing a computer-based
financial management system, has never been fully operational, though there were efforts
in that regard. Despite these challenges, the project disbursements though slow initially,
picked up finally and the Credit was fully disbursed by the revised closing date. To
improve financial monitoring, the Financial Management Reports were fine-tuned in
2010. There have been no major issues in the audits. However, at the end of the project,
the CBOs were left with handling large funds (SRF accumulations, ongoing contributions
from households), and there was no formal audit arrangement (internal audit under the
project covered only a sample), nor was there any institutional back up support
arrangement for continued review of functioning of CBOs. This could be a risk going
forward.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project has strengthened decentralization efforts in the RWSS sector, by moving
away from the Project Implementation Unit and Project Management Unit approach of
CWSSP-I, to establishing a RWSS Division in the Ministry at the central level, RWSS
Units at the PC level and RWSS cells at the PS level. By the end of the project, these
institutions have proved their utility by providing continuous support to the CBOs. At the
Grama Niladhari Division (GND) level, the CBOs have been most effective facilitating
the community to come together, participate in planning and implementation, and
Operation and Maintenance. It is worth noting that the ICRR team visited some of the
CWSSP-I financed schemes which continue to be CBO-operated after several years (e.g.
Kurunegala district). Some of the CBOs have even extended their technical expertise to
neighboring GNDs to plan and implement RWSS schemes. This provides some comfort
for long-term sustainability of the model.

Nevertheless, these CBOs need continued handholding, refresher trainings, monitoring
and O&M back-stopping11; which can only be provided through an effective institutional
back up support from the PSs and PCs. Such an institutional consolidation can only

11
  E.g., resolving technical bottlenecks, meter calibration and maintenance, resolving social conflicts if they
arise, supporting on power supply, water resource management, water quality management, ensuring
proper representation in the CBOs, safeguarding from elite capture, etc.


                                                     10
happen over the long-term, through a continued engagement with the institutions.
Evolving such mechanism often requires more than one project. Though there were some
attempts towards the last phase of the project to develop a follow-on project to CWSSP-
2, such attempts have failed to materialize. Given the closer involvement of the PCs
under the project, the Central and North-Western provinces have already made budget
allocations for retaining the RWSS units beyond the project. It is understood that the
RWSS Division is also making proposals to establish some form of Trust arrangement
under the Ministry of Water Supply and Drainage for Cabinet approval. It is hoped that
these efforts lead to some institutional continuity in the sector, beyond the project.

The project has helped in strengthening the policy framework by supporting formulation
of Rural Sanitation Policy and revising the National Water Policy (both policies to be
approved by the GOSL).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The PDOs, project design and implementation were highly relevant to Sri Lanka’s
development priorities and country context at project completion, as the decentralization
policy of GOSL still holds. GOSL’s 10 year Development Framework – Mahinda
Chintana, supported by the Bank at the time of project completion, focuses on: (i)
achieving more equitable development through accelerated rural development; (ii)
accelerating growth through increased investment in infrastructure; and (iii)
strengthening public service delivery -- all the three themes, supported under the project
as well.

The Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), finalized in 2008 for FY09-12, strongly
emphasizes community-focused projects and projects delivered through local and
provincial governments – the practices adopted under the project. Further this CAS seeks
to prioritize assistance for reconstruction and service delivery in conflict-affected areas,
including support to nascent local government institutions in the East – relevant under the
project as well, which had a component with this objective. The CAS also advises to
pursue openings for policy reforms as and when they appear, and carry out continuous
consultations to build constituencies for policy and institutional changes – which the
project did to some extent.

The global RWSS sector strategy of the Bank promotes governments’ effort to
decentralize management of water services to the local level, coupled with close
community involvement in the planning, financing, implementation and operations and
maintenance – the basic tenets on which the project was designed and implemented.




                                            11
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

A summary of progress at closure, against the key outcome indicators is given below:

# Indicator                                    Target      Achievement      Percentage
I.1 Number of people in project areas          719,700     384,100          53
    with access to Improved Water
    Sources
I.2 Number of new piped household              162,300     92,000           57
    water connections that are resulting
    from the project intervention
I.3 Number and types of beneficiaries and      80%         88%
    their level of satisfaction with
    completed systems
I.4 Improved community water points            1121        922              82
    constructed or rehabilitated under the
    project.
    Intermediate
i.1 Number of water supply subprojects         812         709              87
    completed and operational
i.2 Number of latrines constructed and         54,500      45,660           83
    operational

Causal Linkages against each indicator above

[I.1]. The community has got access to safe water sources which include protected wells,
rivers, streams and rainwater harvesting systems. The sources have been selected through
community involvement, thereby promoting greater ownership. Average consumption
has increased to 68 lpcd from 29 lpcd – a quantum jump. [I.2]. Though originally not
visualized, house connections have been opted for by 95 percent of targeted households.
The primary reason for connecting to the system is found to be to avoid the burden of
fetching water (See Annex-3 for details on time savings).

However, achievements on the above two indicators by project completion have been
low, due to the slow progress on house connections, for the reasons stated in Section 2.2
and the targets being unrealistic as explained in Section 2.2.

[I.3]. Beneficiary satisfaction levels surpassed the target by 8 percent, as measured in the
independent audit – primarily due to the sense of ownership achieved through the CDD
approaches practiced under the project. About 44 percent of beneficiaries are very
satisfied. The high levels of satisfaction of the households connected to the systems, with
the services provided give an indication of the satisfactory outcomes achieved. [I.4].
Achievements against this indicator have been significant at 82 percent level. Water
points would cater to poor people from the community, who may not be opting for


                                             12
household connections. [i.1]. Eighty-seven percent of the schemes completed by project
completion gives scope to further reach households falling under these schemes, through
house connections. [i.2]. Through the SRF mechanism, safe toilet access has improved to
a significant 83 percent of the households in the villages and others are catching up.
About two thirds of the villages surveyed under the independent audit have been found to
have no household without a toilet. The SRF has contributed greatly to sanitation access
and the approach has now been firmly accepted by the community.

The other outcomes include, the institutional and project processes that have been
initiated under the project. These are likely to exemplify as sustainable models for the
country. The methodologies established under the project have improved the ownership
of the interventions by the community. The estate sector pilot has shown the way to
expand the coverage to the marginal communities living in the estates. The efforts made
to reach the community in the conflict affected North-East province and to bring them
together on water related issues have started paying dividends.

3.3 Efficiency

At completion, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the water supply schemes was
computed for the two most popular piped water technologies (pumping and gravity
schemes), which account for 91 percent of water capital costs. Baseline ERRs at
completion are 30 percent and 18 percent, for gravity and pumping, respectively. On
average the achieved time savings are substantial, although below the estimates at
appraisal (70 to 77 minutes/HH/day at completion for gravity and pumping respectively
compared to 120 minutes/HH/day at appraisal). While the benefits at appraisal only
included time savings, the value of incremental water consumption was also estimated at
completion. On average, households connected to the piped water supply system under
the project increased their per capita water consumption from 29 lpcd to 68 lpcd.
Additional benefits, in particular the health benefits associated with water consumption
above subsistence level, are expected to be important but could not be quantified for the
economic analysis. The ERRs at completion remains acceptable under a large number of
scenarios; however, the ERR for pumping schemes falls below the 15 percent threshold if
time savings are reduced by over 8 percent. A full cost-benefit analysis of the sanitation
component was not conducted at appraisal. The analysis at completion focuses on
assessing the efficiency of the sanitation revolving funds in scaling up coverage of on-site
sanitation facilities. The analysis indicates that 70 percent of the sanitation needs in the
participating GNDs have been met, and the financial performance of the revolving funds
is considered satisfactory.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Assessment of the overall outcome of the project has been based on the three factors
listed above: relevance, efficiency and achievement of PDO.




                                            13
There is high relevance of the project objectives and design to the country’s priorities,
both at design stage and at completion. The investments made are efficient – with high
ERRs and benefits of time savings for the community in fetching water, with added
health benefits which cannot be quantified.

The PDO includes two parts: (i) to increase service coverage; and (ii) achieve effective
and sustained use of water and sanitation services in rural communities in Sri Lanka.

On the second part, there is enough evidence that the project approaches have led to
effective and sustained use of water and sanitation services at the community level in the
villages. For long-term sustainability, the community needs continued support beyond the
project on a number of issues: source protection, water quality management, financial
management, operation and maintenance, etc.; institutional linkages for which have not
been very clear by the end of the project. Though it takes a long time to firmly establish
such linkages -- beyond one project -- a road map at the end of the project on this aspect,
if available, would have provided more comfort.

On the first part, when measured against the formal targets related to the key indicators of
PDO, moderate levels of coverage have been achieved (See Section 3.2: 53 percent on
access to safe source and 57 percent on house connections), by the end of the project.
Due to this shortfall, the project’s outcome achievement has been rated as “Moderately
Satisfactory”.

In hindsight, when the indicators have been changed to measure progress against house
connections, either the targets should have been rationalized or some sort of financial
assistance should have been provided to the needy community to bear the costs. But for
this shortcoming in setting of the targets in the first place, the project outcome rating
could have been rated “Satisfactory”.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

As indicated in Section 1.1, about 80 percent of Sri Lanka’s population and 90 percent of
country’s poor live in rural areas. By improving RWSS services in rural areas, the project
has a direct contribution to poverty reduction. The project has also promoted gender
equality, with 40 percent of executive committee members of the CBOs surveyed being
female (as per the independent audit). By bringing together communities in the conflict
affected North-East province, through formation of CBOs, the project is paving way for
improved social cohesion amongst the diverse community (Singala, Tamil and Muslim)
there.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project promoted decentralization, through involvement of RWSS Division
(RWSSD) at central level, RWSS units in the PCs, RWSS cells at PSs and the CBOs at
the GND level. In that regard, the project attempted to move away from the Project

                                             14
Management Unit/Project Implementation Unit model of the first CWSSP, by
establishing and strengthening units/cells within the existing PCs and PSs.
Efforts have been made all through the project implementation to strengthen these units,
through various capacity building efforts, provision of Technical Assistance etc. The
central RWSS unit has played a pivotal role, though it moved across various ministries
(at least four times). The PCs have also played a key role in implementation and overall
monitoring. As per GOSL acts, PSs have been delegated with RWSS service provision
responsibility. Building their capacity has been an issue right through implementation.

At the GND level, CBOs are formed to reach out to the community. These CBOs are
legally registered, but are not a constitutionally recognized institution as such. The PSs
are the nearest constitutionally recognized institutions. Members of the CBO include only
those households from the GNDs that have agreed to benefit from the project and
contributed. The project has helped to demonstrate at scale that these CBOs can bring
together the community; plan, implement and successfully operate and maintain the
RWSS schemes. Some of them have been managing complicated Multi-Village Schemes.
There are other households in the village that are yet to join the CBOs (they continue to
depend on other sources of water, or cash contributions are unaffordable for them). The
challenge is to connect such unconnected households as well to benefit from the
improved systems/services. There are also concerns on the ability of the CBOs to
properly maintain books of accounts, classify expenditures and manage the savings in a
transparent and accountable manner. Only for about 70 percent of the 100 subprojects
studied under the independent audit have both revenue and expenditure data for 2009.
Some of the CBO members have been continuing since the beginning. A formal process
of regular elections would have given opportunity to other members to emerge as leaders.

All this requires good follow-up through well functioning PS/PC institutions to back up
the CBOs beyond the project. It is expected that the linkages developed between the
PSs/PCs and the CBOs, through their involvement under the project, would help in
resolution of immediate issues beyond the project. However, it is necessary to have in
place a post-project transitional road map with roles and responsibilities of various
institutions along with necessary resource allocation process. RWSSD’s efforts in this
regard (See Section 2.5) hopefully would bear fruit.

However, in case the institutional strengthening is likely to happen in future, given the
lower levels of project contributions by the PSs than expected, a realistic assessment of
their abilities to contribute needs to be done for future programs. Similarly, the
institutional approach for Estate sector pilots has to be included in the overarching RWSS
institutional strategy.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The independent audit indicated that about 46 percent of the systems practice continuous
water supply, which was not expected originally at this scale, and this is a very positive
development hitherto unseen in the South Asia region. Similarly, metering of water usage
is practiced universally – which is a path-breaking attempt in RWSS in the South Asia
Region. This was also not expected initially. The project has also taken up


                                           15
implementation of Multi-Village Schemes, which was originally not expected.
Sustainable management of these schemes in future is a challenge, based on world-wide
experience.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The infrastructure created is of good quality. However, source protection, water yield and
consumption management and water quality management are concerning issues. Revenue
and expenditure management by the CBOs is another area where they need to be
supported. With a large proportion of households still unconnected to the systems,
mobilizing them to join the CBOs and benefit from the improved services will require
ongoing support to the CBOs, strategies on which are still evolving at GOSL level.
Therefore, there is a moderate risk to maintenance of development outcome.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The project was formally reviewed by the Bank’s Quality Assurance Group (QAG) for
Quality At Entry (QAE) in June 2003, which rated the project ‘satisfactory’, due to
incorporating lessons learned from the first CWSSP and due to the depth of preparation
work and documentation. All dimensions of QAE assessment were rated ‘Satisfactory’
except the dimension of ‘Bank’s inputs and processes’ which was rated ‘Marginally
Satisfactory’. This was due to the Bank’s inability for maintaining continuity of staffing
during preparation period; and less than adequate treatment during appraisal on
affordability of the financing plan for both the Government and the communities.

The QAE process recommended: a) to maintain staff continuity and to strengthen the
supervision team in developing the broader vision necessary to deal with the issue of
scale and replicability; b) careful monitoring of CBOs’ ability to maintain and collect
revenues to operate the investments; and c) developing alternative institutional structures
for water quality monitoring, given the ambitious nature of the planned water quality
monitoring program.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory




                                            16
The Bank team’s supervision efforts have been regular, with key team members
continuing from the beginning, and the team supplemented with experienced senior staff
as needed. During supervision, the team made efforts to identify and resolve issues --
particularly on critical components such as Estate Sector pilot and North-East component.
Specialist technical inputs have been provided on Kotiyagala Estate, including
participating in workshops with CBOs and Estate Management of this estate, as it faced
problems of water sharing between the communities living in that estate. The progress of
implementation of various batches is mostly on time. Fiduciary and Safeguard issues
received due attention. Social specialist input should have started early-on in the project
(started since June 2005).

Development of alternative institutional models for water quality monitoring, and small
towns’ strategy, though pursued, could not be satisfactorily concluded. The team has also
tried to promote policy dialogue, which resulted in formulating a proposal on metering
and tariff policy (though not implemented), revision of cost sharing norms in estate
sector, and drafting of national sanitation policy (yet to be approved by GOSL). The
project’s transition arrangements after its completion could not be clearly firmed up,
though attempted by the team. The project’s targets against Key Indicators should have
been revised based on the revealed realities on the ground. A number of times indicators
and targets have been changed, but in the end, the targets remained unrealistic, resulting
in the project’s overall outcome performance as only moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team built on the achievements of the first CWSSP, tried to test ground on new
initiatives in the Estate Sector, North-East, and SRF; attempted to establish and
strengthen the institutional units within the existing PCs/PSs; pursued the policy dialogue
using the windows of opportunities that existed. The community driven development
approaches that have been envisaged in GOSL’s policies have been re-tested under the
project and proved their mettle. Development of larger sector vision and scaling-up
requires continued dialogue with the government. On the house connections, though
enough attention could have been paid to rationality of targets and affordability issues,
the project laid foundations for full connections by building quality infrastructure and
making CBOs own that.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The government’s commitment was reflected in formulation of ‘National Policy for Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation’ in 2001. The main government unit is the RWSS Division
in the concerned Ministry. The Project Director and the key staff in this unit have
continued all through the project (except for the Project Accountant position which had a
lot of staff turn-over), despite its movement across various ministries. Generally, there
was a quick follow-up on the mission’s recommendations/implementation experiences
such as drafting of sanitation policy, tariff and metering policy, revising cost sharing

                                            17
agreements, filling-up staff vacancies at PC/PSs or providing them with logistics,
thinking of alternatives for providing implementation support, especially for the North-
East component, etc. RWSSD has also put initial efforts in changing the mindset of
various stakeholders in adopting project approaches, facilitated linkages between
suppliers of equipment and CBOs, which helped in implementation.

Provision of counterpart funding was generally adequate. The covenant related to
establishment and use of computerized financial management software has not been
complied with successfully, though there were attempts made in this regard, and the
software installed faced problems in its application. The computerized M&E proved to be
unreliable and needed cross-checking of data, and it has ultimately been not fully
established to provide quick updates and larger picture on the project’s achievements. A
road map on post-project transitional arrangement was pending by project completion.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The main implementing agencies are the PCs and PSs. The PCs have relatively better
capacity, compared to the PSs who have been found to be short of capacity. Despite this,
as found in the independent audit, the PSs have got actively involved in implementation;
acting as coordinator between CBOs and POs. However, the PSs could not contribute
cash as required (contributed average 2 percent against 5 percent), which became a
burden on the CBOs and the PCs – the latter intercepted fund flows to PSs after
contributing on behalf of the PSs. There was a limited use of M&E for decision making
and there were frequent shifts between computerized and paper based formats for data
collection and reporting. Both the PCs and PSs paid the salaries of their staff, while an
additional incentive was paid to them under the project by GOSL for working on the
project. However, these units have not assumed larger roles for development planning,
linking CBOs with other government programs, etc.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, there was good intent to follow the project approaches and the implementation
was satisfactory. Key issues were regularly followed up and resolved by finding
alternatives. The decentralized units at the PC and PS levels have been supported well for
their functioning, which in turn have responded to their call of duty, though with some
limitations. The critical requirement is to find appropriate transition arrangement, and
continuity of institutional support to the CBOs to enhance sustainability of project
interventions; strategy on which was awaited at project closing.

6. Lessons Learned

The project offers the following lessons, which might be useful in design for future
similar programs.




                                            18
(1) Progress on house connection targets require careful monitoring and
rationalization on a regular basis: It is important to review the targets against key
indicators, particularly where indicators are linked to community mobilization efforts –
such as obtaining house connections, and rationalize them on regular basis based on
ground realities. Else, the overall project performance ratings get undermined, despite the
other positive outcomes of the project.

(2) An analysis of local governments’ ability to contribute has to be done upfront: The
project’s contribution has been to move away from the Project Management Unit model
of the first CWSSP to establish units -- PCs and PSs, within the existing local
governments, with staff and resources. As these units were headed by the Chairman of PS
and the Secretary of PC, there was more scope for political/ administrative support and
integrated planning along with other development programs. However, as a mark of their
ownership, these units have been asked to provide cash contributions (5 percent each) to
the project – which they found difficult, particularly the PSs; and some of them never
contributed resulting in additional burden on the CBOs. Therefore, adequate financial
analysis of the local governments’ ability to contribute has to be done prior to deciding
about their levels of contribution in the programs such as CWSSP; including analysis of
other alternatives to promote ownership.

Institutional sustainability beyond the project and provision of back-up support to the
villages are important elements of CDD projects, which must be given focus right
through project implementation, to see that a sustainable mechanism evolves by the end
of project.

2) CBO model works, but requires whole community participation and institutional
support. The project has formed CBOs to bring the community together. This model has
worked well to promote ownership of project interventions amongst the community, but
the following factors should be considered and addressed in design:

a) Mobilizing community through CBO: CBOs under the project consist of those
   households that chose to benefit from the project. There are others who either depend
   on other water sources (e.g., open wells), or found it unaffordable to get a house
   connection. Such households have not joined the CBO. The CBOs are setting a higher
   connection fee to those households that want to join later. For long-term
   sustainability, efforts are needed to bring the whole community together and provide
   them with equitable service. This may require review of affordability, awareness
   raising and design of inclusive policies.
b) Tariffs, book keeping and revenue management: To make tariffs sustainable and
   equitable, and generate adequate revenues, it is important to train the CBOs on
   appropriate tariff design to be able to raise adequate revenue sustainably. The revenue
   that is generated has to be properly accounted for and used for O&M of the systems,
   which requires appropriate bookkeeping – on which the CBOs have to be trained
   adequately, preferably after the schemes have become operational; and ensure that
   they get used to it.




                                            19
(3) Community contracting is effective. The community contracting adopted under the
project has worked, resulting is good quality works and goods leading to a sense of
ownership and pride with the community, enhancing their confidence in dealing with
similar major activities.

(4) Cost Sharing arrangements must be designed based on affordability. The cost of
meters, house connections and electricity installations have not been financed under the
project, and their costs had to be borne by the community. This caused low uptake of
house connections; or in some instances community opting for diesel generators – which
is costly for O&M. Therefore, it is important to finance the costs of these under the
project; assess the financial affordability of the community and fix the community’s
project contributions within their affordability levels.

(5) Sanitation Revolving Fund concept is effective and replicable. The innovative
design of the Sanitation Revolving Fund has been able to mobilize community action to
improve their sanitation access; and sometimes leveraging these funds to other economic
activities. The approach has proven to be replicable.

(6) M&E systems must be designed taking account of capacity. Insistence on a
computerized M&E system right down to the PS level, in the backdrop of the new
decentralized approach being practiced, and the low capacities of the PSs had been an
ambitious attempt – which was not entirely successful. In order to enhance ownership and
adoption, these M&E systems have to be based on absorptive capacity of institutions. A
two level simplified system (paper based at PS level, computerized at higher level – with
updates linked to fund releases), along with a slow transition to computerized system
would have helped.

(7) Adapt project rules with appropriate modifications to suit conflict-affected areas.
The same project rules have been adapted to conflict affected areas – where there were
challenges to mobilize community and make PCs, PSs to contribute. A different set of
rules and cost sharing arrangements to suit conflict affected areas would have helped.

(8) Estate sector initiatives require estate management and community support. The
issues in provision of water supply and sanitation to estate sector community pose
different challenges, which require getting the buy-in of estate management and
evaluation of alternatives with the community.

(9) Multi-Village Schemes require careful analysis of technical, financial, institutional
and social feasibility. MVSs require careful analysis on technical (source selection and
seasonal use, scheme design, operations), financial (capital and O&M contributions,
O&M costs, tariff levels) institutional (responsibilities for design and implementation,
O&M, asset ownership, replacement), and social (community group formation, dispute
resolution, etc). The project had to deal with Multi-Village Schemes by chance, not by
design. Therefore, it is important to identify early on, potential geographic areas that can
be better served by MVSs (due to water resource constraints), through a strategic plan at
district level; and also draw on existing practices to evolve an effective implementation
and O&M arrangements.

                                             20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The GOSL provided comments on the final draft of ICR (see Annex-7 for details)
expressing overall satisfaction with the positive contributions made by the project in
improving the water supply and sanitation services to the rural community in Sri Lanka
and other tangential benefits that the project has brought-in in terms of building
community capacity, social mobilization, women empowerment, health and hygiene
improvement etc.

GOSL’s main concern was on the rating of the project’s outcome achievement as
‘Moderately Satisfactory’. GOSL’s main argument was that the progress on indicator
related to house connections takes time; that in Batch-4 a substantial number of schemes
had been completed just about the project completion time which require mobilizing
communities to connect; and that there was a rapid progress observed on house
connections soon after project completion. Despite this, there are a number of other
outcomes on which the project’s achievements are satisfactory. If timely revision of the
targets was done, the progress would have been satisfactory. Hence, GOSL stated that
they cannot agree to the rating given.

The ICR has highlighted the reasons behind the moderately satisfactory rating which
result from the targets not being adjusted during project implementation to reflect the
impact of cost inflation and the lag in making house connections to the new networks and
other reasons stated in Section 2.2. If these adjustments had been made the project would
have been rated satisfactory.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not Applicable




                                           21
                             Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                              Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
             Components                                       Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)12                        Appraisal
                                                                millions)13
PHYSICAL INVESTMENTS                           38.4              40.80            106
IMPLEMENTATION                                  4.4               3.39             77
SUPPORT
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                             12.6              11.64             92
AND CAPACITY BUIDING
NORTH EAST                                     7.00               6.54             93

Total Baseline Cost                           62.40              62.37            100
Physical Contingencies                         N/A                N/A             N/A
Price Contingencies                            1.00               N/A             N/A
Total Project Costs                           62.40              62.37            100
PPF                                            0.70               0.70
Front-end fee IBRD                             N/A                N/A
Total Financing Required                      63.10              63.07            100



(b) Financing
                                              Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                                              Percentage of
             Source of Funds                  Estimate        Estimate
                                                                               Appraisal
                                            (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                        11.40           8.91               78
Local Communities                               11.90          17.31               145
IDA GRANT                                       39.80          36.86               93
Total                                             63.10             63.07          100
Reallocation to Tsunami                                              6.7
Emergency Recovery Project




12
     Based on Project Appraisal Document, Annex-3.
13
     After Tsunami Emergency Recovery Project reallocation.


                                                    22
        Annex 2. Outputs by Component & other supporting information

OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT

The project consisted of four components as below:

Component A: Physical Investments (US$38.4M) – to finance investments in water
supply, wastewater drainage and on-site sanitation facilities in the villages; in estate
sector and small towns on pilot basis; and selected subprojects in Kurunegala district of
North-West province (so called “ongoing schemes”).

Component B: Implementation Support (US$4.4M) – mainly to finance Partner
Organizations (POs) that facilitate project implementation.

Component C: Program Management and Capacity Building (US$12.6M) – to build
capacity of national unit, local governments and Community Based Organizations
(CBOs). It has sub-components as below:
       •       Technical assistance and training – for capacity building activities;
       •       Consultancies, Studies and Policy formulation – various technical studies;
               and
       •       Incremental operating costs – to support project administration and
               operating costs.

Component D: North East Provincial Council (US$7.0M) – to support rural water
supply and sanitation investments in the North-East (NE) which was included late under
the project), and their preparatory activities.

Outputs by Component are as below:

Component A: This component financed a share of the capital costs associated with the
service improvements in water supply, wastewater drainage and onsite-sanitation. In the
case of water supply, majority of the project investments have been in the provision of
pipe borne water supply. The Project has 709 sub-projects operational at closure,
implemented in 723 Grama Niladhari Divisions. The number of corresponding household
connections is reported to be 81,431. In addition to the pipe borne water supply the
project has constructed 965 private wells, 770 common wells servicing 2,698
households, 36 tube-wells, 194 rain water harvesting tanks and 116 hand pumps servicing
158 households. The number of people provided with improved drinking water under the
whole project is reported to be 376,447.

In addition, through the Sanitary Revolving Fund (SRF), 45,660 latrines have been
constructed. The SRF has been implemented successfully with a high repayment rate in
excess of 84 percent.



                                            23
Component B: This component primarily financed the engagement of Partner
Organizations (POs) that assisted the communities with the implementation of the water
supply and sanitation works. During the project period, all subprojects were provided
with this facility with each CBO being guided at ground level with PO staff that included
a Project Manager (for a cluster not exceeding six subprojects), a Community Facilitator
(for each subproject) and a Technical Assistant (for two subprojects). The said staff were
supervised by senior staff at provincial level.

After the initial public awareness campaigns and facilitating the setting up of the
Community Based Organizations (CBOs), the PO in each case provided the knowhow for
the preparation of funding applications and worked with the CBO in the planning, the
designing and in the supervision of the construction of the water supply and sanitation
infrastructure. The POs worked closely with the CBOs and the Local Government in the
supervision of the works and provided much wanted technical backstopping at the site
level. In addition to facilitating the physical infrastructure the POs provided the soft skills
necessary for the community to manage the schemes and the CBO to ensure
sustainability. Training was provided to the CBO in the Operation and Maintenance of
the system, tariff setting, procurement, basic project management and record keeping.
The Community at large benefited from them and were also given health and hygiene
education and awareness on environmental conservation practices. The current number of
709 subprojects operational of the 755 that began during implementation is a testimony to
the service provided by the POs. There had been 57 POs working for the project in
various stages. Only 8 POs were found to be wanting in quality of their service.

Component C: Component C comprised of three sub components as below:

a)     Technical assistance to increase capacity of implementing entities

Technical assistance to increase capacity of implementing entities has been carried out at
the centre at RWSS Division, RWSS Units at provincial level, RWS cells at Local
Government Level, the Partner Organizations and the Community Based Organizations.
These were structured training sessions that consisted of pre-organized modules.

b)     Consultancies, Studies and Policy formulation

The project undertook a Small Town WS Study comprised of 3 phases. However, only
two phases of the study has been completed. The project remained engaged in the Rural
Water Supply (RWS) policy formulation as a key stakeholder driving the demand driven,
decentralized local level service delivery model for RWS; that ensures sustainability
through cost recovery. The policy remains in a Draft form at present though it forms the
basis of RWS projects being implemented in the country.

c)     Incremental Operating Costs

Movable assets that include vehicles and ICT equipment have been purchased by the
project and remained in use at all levels of government. The staff of which the salaries



                                              24
were financed by the project were highly trained, and remain an asset in the provision of
RWS service delivery.




                                            25
Component D

With the split of the North-East Provincial council and the country security situation that
prevailed at the time, component D was limited to two districts of the newly formed
Eastern provincial Council. In the Trincomalee district 13 subprojects were implemented
of which 5 were operational and construction of others ongoing. In the Ampara district of
the 28 subprojects implemented 23 projects were operational and construction of others
ongoing.

OTHER SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Capacity Building Organizations (CBOs) Performance

The CBO are groups formed by the beneficiary communities to plan, implement, operate
and maintain the WSS services in the villages. These CBOs helped in capturing the felt
needs of the villagers, facilitated by the POs and local governments. An independent
audit was conducted by a consultant hired by the Bank on the project covering about 100
subprojects, 3074 households in 105 GNDs in Central and North-Western Provinces. In
this audit, it was observed that, by the end of the project in 2009-10, at least 60 percent of
the CBOs met regularly, with an average attendance of 70 percent. About 40 percent of
CBO members are female. Impressive service practices by the CBOs were also observed
such as: quarterly maintenance review, weekly leak detection, etc. The ICRR mission
observed that some of the CBOs extended their operations beyond the traditional RWSS
activities, to other economic improvement initiatives such as establishing rural banks,
rural gardening, local grocery/textile shops, etc.

Environmental Issues

Environmental Categorization

The project required simple investments to improve RWSS services in the villages/estates
sector, resulting in environmental categorization “B”. Since the subproject locations were
not known initially, a Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) was prepared with
guidelines. However, based on GOSL request at appraisal, a Water Resources study for
Hambantota district was included under the project, which necessitated an upgrade to
Category “A”, requiring full Environmental Assessment and triggering of Bank Policies
OP 4.01, OP 4.04, OP 4.36 and OP 4.37. The Hambantota study was finally taken up by
GOSL, and hence Bank policies listed above were not applicable.

Hambantota study

At appraisal, GOSL proposed to augment the water resources of the Kirindi Oya basin in
Hambantota District of the Southern Province, through trans-basin diversion of excess
waters of the Menik Ganga at Weheragala, by building an earthen dam and an unlined
earthen canal to the existing Lunugamwehera reservoir. This involved significant
environmental impacts, especially on the wildlife in some national parks en-route. While

                                             26
funding for the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was available under the project
(which assessment was to lead to separate decision on eligibility of financing of the water
resource augmentation proposal). In order to expedite the process, the Government
decided to fund the EIA with its own funds. While the EIA was on-going there was a
change of government and the new administration decided to use GOSL funds for
construction of the project so the Bank’s assistance under CWSSP was no longer
required.
As a result, the Bank policies listed above were not applicable.

Environmental Program Design

To address the issues of water quality and scarcity issues identified in the SEA, the
environment program of the project was designed at two levels: (i) at household level –
home gardening, composting, hygiene education; and (ii) at village level - source
protection/watershed management activities by the village community, through tree
plantation near sources/catchments, construction of retention walls and drains around the
water source, construction of soil erosion walls in erosion prone areas of the village, etc.

Water Quality Management Issues

As per the independent audit, chlorination is not practiced generally and only 33 percent
of the water samples collected passed bacteriological tests, and 52 percent of the samples
passed physical/chemical tests. This is an area of focus, going forward. A Water Quality
management strategy was prepared during project implementation, primarily based on
CBO level testing of bacteriological parameters and nitrate, and bi-annual testing of
standard drinking water quality parameters. Towards the end of the project, the Ministry
of Health, through the National Water Quality Surveillance Committee, has established a
system on a pilot basis, for testing of samples and treatment in the villages, in
coordination with NWSDB and the CBOs. Linkages between these two strategies were to
be established by project closing.

Sanitation Revolving Fund

Sanitation Revolving Fund has helped in enhancing sanitation access to the community in
the villages. The poor in the village have been given grants as decided by the CBOs. The
independent audit in sample GNDs found that more than 97 percent households in those
GNDs have toilets in aggregate and that the revolving fund is being paid off fully (about
63 percent). Most of the CBOs (87 percent) of the sample GNDs have implemented SRF
funded toilet construction program. The average amount deposited for each toilet
constructed is about Rs. 2000 (US$18).




                                             27
                                 Annex 3. Economic Analysis
                             (including assumptions in the analysis)

Water Supply
1.      The project was implemented in 780 GNDs (project area). As per system design,
the project has the capacity to serve 172,000 households (“target beneficiaries”),
equivalent to 80 percent of the population in the project area. Pipe-borne water supply is
the most popular water technology: 95 percent of the target beneficiaries (equivalent to
162,000 households) have opted to receive access to piped water supply. The remaining
10,000 households have opted for alternative water technologies (rain-water harvesting,
private and public wells, tube-wells, etc). Only 53 percent of the target beneficiaries have
so far connected to the water supply schemes constructed under the project (as of
December 31, 2010), (“the current beneficiaries”). The percentage of target beneficiaries
that are currently receiving benefits from non-piped water schemes is significantly
higher, at 94 percent.
Cost-Benefit Analysis
2.      At appraisal, a cost-benefit analysis was conducted to estimate the time savings
generated by the water supply investments. The cost-benefit analysis conducted at
appraisal has been updated for the two most popular piped water supply technologies:
pipe borne gravity and pumping schemes providing private (yard-tap) connections to
households14. Piped water supply schemes account for 91 percent of total capital costs. In
addition to estimating the time savings generated by the investments, the economic value
of incremental water consumption was included in the cost-benefit analysis at
completion. Additional benefits –such as health benefits, and reductions in coping costs
other than time savings–could not be quantified and were therefore excluded from the
cost-benefit analysis.
3.      Only pipe borne schemes that completed the capital works by December 2010
(the “completed schemes”) were considered for the cost-benefit analysis of the water
supply investments. Schemes that have yet to complete the capital works, accounting for
11 percent of the total number of piped schemes, were excluded from the ERR
calculations at completion.15 The economic benefits were estimated only for households
that were connected to the piped water system by December 2010 (roughly 81,000
households). The cost-benefit analysis relied on the CWSSP II monitoring database for
cost data. The benefits of the schemes were estimated based on a household survey
conducted in a sample of 100 GNDs (villages) in the Central and North-Western
Provinces in 2010 (“the household survey”).
4.      Benefits. On average the achieved time savings are substantial, although below
the estimates at appraisal (70 to 77 minutes/HH/day at completion for gravity and
pumping, respectively, compared to 120 minutes/HH/day at appraisal). The increase in
per capita water consumption, which was not estimated at appraisal, represents an
14
   A quantitative analysis of alternative water technologies was not conducted because information on time
savings is not available for non-piped water technologies.
15
   Both costs and benefits of the schemes that have yet to be completed are excluded from the CBA.


                                                   28
important part of the total benefits: on average, households connected to the piped water
supply system under the project increased their per capita water consumption from 29
lpcd, which is below the subsistence level, to 68 lpcd. The level of per capita water
consumption for connected households is above the minimum requirement of 40 lpcd for
direct consumption, preparation of food and personnel hygiene, recommended under the
current National Policy for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation16. It is worth noting that
the overall benefits are significantly higher than the estimated values. In particular, the
health externalities associated with the reported increase in water consumption above
minimum requirements are expected to result in significant improvements in health
outcomes, which could not be quantified for the cost-benefit analysis. In addition, about
half of the connected households gained access to 24/7 water supply (based on the results
of the household survey). Access to continuous water supply is expected to result in
additional benefits, such as reduction in coping costs, which were also not quantified for
the purpose of the economic analysis.
5.      Costs. Capital costs per household have been adversely affected by the
exceptional inflation that hit Sri Lanka immediately after the Tsunami, and the lower than
expected household connection rates. Since price contingencies were not included in
project costs, the increase in inflation seriously affected the ability of the project to
deliver the target level of connections. When measured at current prices, actual capital
costs per household are more than twice the values estimated at appraisal.17 Actual
gravity costs are equivalent to 30,000 LKR per HH compared to the 13,000 LKR per HH
estimates at appraisal. A similar cost escalation is recorded for pumping schemes: actual
pumping costs are 44,000 LKR per HH, compared to 17,000 LKR per HH at appraisal.
When costs are measured in real terms, unit cost escalation amounts to 35 percent and 45
percent for gravity and pumping schemes, respectively (relative to costs at appraisal).
6.      Economic Rate of Return. Both pipe-borne technologies (i.e., gravity and
pumping) provide satisfactory ERRs and NPVs (above the 15 percent threshold). The
ERRs for gravity and pumping schemes are 30 and 18 percent, respectively. The
satisfactory ERR is consistent with the high level of beneficiaries’ satisfaction with the
project - based on the results of the 2010 household survey, 88 percent of beneficiaries
reported to be satisfied or very satisfied with the project. However, the ERRs are slightly
below the estimates at appraisal, given that the expected level of time savings has not
materialized.18
7.     Sensitivity Analysis. Time savings is the most important parameter affecting the
economic viability of the schemes. The ERR for gravity schemes is robust to changes in
key parameters; however, the ERR for pumping schemes is highly sensitive to changes in
the level of time savings. The time savings for pumping schemes are very close to the
threshold value that result in a minimum 15 percent ERR (71 minutes/HH/day). The
baseline ERR calculation includes only households what were connected to the piped
system at project closure (December 2010). However, the piped water schemes have the

16
   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Division, Ministry of Water Supply and Drainage (2001). “National
Policy for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Sector” <http://www.cwssp.org/rwssd2.html>.
17
   Prices of construction materials were driven upwards due to input scarcity resulting from the Tsunami.
18
   The ERRs at appraisal were 43 and 25 percent for gravity and pumping, respectively.


                                                    29
capacity to accommodate additional connections. As part of the sensitivity analysis it was
calculated how the ERR would be affected by allowing the number of connections to
increase until the target number of beneficiaries is reached. Although the increase in the
number of beneficiaries will have a positive impact on the economic benefits of the water
component, the impact is small. This occurs because the benefits to households
connecting far into the future are discounted more than the benefits to households
connecting to the system early on19. The parameters used and the assumptions made for
the estimation of the ERR are provided in Attachment-1 to this Annex.
Sanitation

8.      A full cost-benefit analysis of the sanitation component was not conducted at
appraisal. The analysis at completion focused on assessing the efficiency of the sanitation
revolving funds in scaling up coverage of on-site sanitation facilities. Although full
sanitation coverage has not been achieved, 70 percent of the sanitation needs in the
participating communities have been met over the course of project implementation. The
financial performance of the revolving funds is considered satisfactory. On average, the
revolving funds’ leverage ratio is 1.7 and the recovery rate 76 percent, although there is
considerable variation in performance across Provinces. Performance data at the
Provincial level are provided in Attachment-1 to this Annex.




19
  Assuming the number of beneficiaries will increase until the design capacity is met, the ERR is
equivalent to 32 percent and 20 percent for gravity and pumping schemes, respectively.


                                                    30
                              Attachment-1 – Economic Analysis

Water Supply

A.      Beneficiaries, Technologies and Geographical Distribution

Project beneficiaries. The project was implemented in 780 GNDs (project area). The
project has the capacity to serve 172,000 households (“target beneficiaries”), equivalent
to 80 percent of the current population in the project area. 162,000 households (95
percent of the total target beneficiaries) have opted to receive access to piped water
supply. The remaining 10,000 target households have opted for alternative water
technologies (rain-water harvesting, private and public wells, tube-wells, etc). Only 53
percent of the target beneficiaries have so far connected to the water supply schemes
constructed under the project (as of December 31, 2010), (“the current beneficiaries”).
The percentage of target beneficiaries that are currently receiving benefits from non-
piped water schemes is significantly higher, at 94 percent..

Technological choice. Piped water supply (yard-tap) connection is the service level
selected by the vast majority of households. The percentage of households that selected
pipe borne technologies is significantly higher than the estimates at appraisal. About 95
percent of the target beneficiaries have opted for receiving yard-tap connections under the
project (see Table 1). The percentage varies slightly across region from 88 to 100
percent. Piped water schemes with yard taps connections account for 91 percent of total
water costs.


Table 1: Percentage of HHs that have opted for Piped Water Technologies (yard tap
                                  connections)

                             Central                    North West              North East
                                         Nuwara                                                       Total
                 Kandy       Matale                     Kurunegala       Ampara       Trincomalee
                                           Eliya
Completion(1)     92%          92%         88%              99%           100%            100%         95%
Appraisal(2)      75%          65%         65%              60%             NA             NA          NA
Notes: (1) Based on the target number of beneficiaries of all active schemes. Source: (1) Monitoring Data;
(2) CWSSP-II PAD.



Geographic Distribution of Schemes. Fifty-five percent of target beneficiaries are located
in the Central Province, 37 percent in the North-West Province, and 8 percent in the
North-East Province (all water supply technologies included). The North Western
Province accounts for the highest share of the capital costs (45 percent) followed by the
Central Province (43 percent). (See Figure 1). The geographical distribution of capital
costs is consistent with the fact that pumping schemes, which are on average more
expensive than gravity schemes, are more common in the North-Western Province.




                                                   31
     Figure 1: Geographical distribution of water schemes’ costs and beneficiaries

     Distribution of Capital Costs   Distribution of Current Beneficiaries   Distribution of Target Beneficiaries
                                                     (HHs)                                  (HHs)
                     N                                  N                                   N
                      E                                  E                                   E

          C
                                                             N                                   N
                                                                                  C
                                                C            W                                   W

                          N
                          W



Note: all water supply technologies included.

B.        Cost-benefit Analysis

A cost-benefit analysis was conducted at project completion for piped water schemes
providing private (yard-tap) connections to households. Only costs and benefits of
schemes that completed the capital works by December 2010 are included in the cost-
benefit analysis (“the completed schemes”). Completed schemes account for 89 percent
of the total number of piped schemes.20 The economic benefits were estimated only for
households that were connected to the piped water system as of December 31, 2010
(roughly 81,000 households). The cost-benefit analysis relied on the CWSSP II
monitoring database for cost data. The benefits of the schemes were estimated based on a
household survey conducted in a sample of 100 GNDs (villages) in the Central and
North-Western Provinces in 2010 (“the household survey”). The household survey
covered roughly 15 percent of project GNDs (equivalent to 13 percent of piped water
schemes), and was complemented by a technical and financial assessment of the selected
schemes.21

About 58 percent of the capacity of completed piped water system has been utilized (i.e.,
58 percent of target beneficiaries have been connected) (See Error! Reference source
not found.), and only 12 percent of the schemes have already reached full coverage of
target beneficiaries as of December 2010. The connection rate at the level of the GND –
defined as the number of households connected to piped water supply as a percentage of
the total number of households in each GND –is 41 percent, slightly lower than the
capacity utilization. The results of the household survey carried out in 100 GNDs are
broadly consistent with the project’s monitoring data: based on the survey results, on
average 51 percent of households have access to a piped water connection in each
sampled GND.22 The household survey data also indicates that about 20 percent of the
households refused to participate in the piped water scheme. The main reason for refusals
is that households have sufficient water. The results are in line with the fact that the
capacity of the water supply scheme is equivalent to about 80 percent of the population in
the participating villages.

20
   Both costs and benefits of the schemes that have yet to be completed are excluded from the Cost Benefit
Analysis (CBA).
21
   The sampling frame for the survey included only Batches 1-3 of the North West and Central Provinces.
22
   In order to ensure data reliability, the survey data was cross-matched with the project data.


                                                     32
                 Table 2: Current and Target Beneficiaries - Completed Piped Water Schemes
                                          (Yard Tap Connections)
              Current Beneficiaries (HHs)   Target Beneficiaries (HHs)                   Current      Implementation
                                                                         Current bene-
                                                                                           bene-           period
                                                                           ficiaries/
                                                                                         ficiaries/
              Gravity Pumping All Piped Gravity Pumping        All Piped     GND
                                                                                       target bene-  Start       End
                                                                          Population
 Location                                                                                ficiaries
 Central      19,742    22,854    42,596    34,303    44,957    79,260           46%           54% Sep-03      Dec-10
   Batch 1       567     1,516     2,083       588     1,834      2,422          55%           86% Sep-03       Jun-04
   Batch 2     3,884     4,741     8,625     4,869     6,739    11,608           62%           74%  Jan-05     Dec-08
   Batch 3    11,081     9,720    20,801    15,577    16,918    32,495           53%           64%  Jul-06     Nov-09
   Batch 4     4,210     6,877    11,087    13,269    19,466    32,735           31%           34%  Jun-08     Dec-10
 North West      821    33,569    34,390       913    49,454    50,367           59%           68% Sep-03      Aug-09
    Batch 1      740       862      1602       805     1,093      1,898          83%           84% Sep-03      June-04
    Batch 2       81     5,612      5693        91     8,911      9,002          53%           63% Apr-04      Feb-06
    Batch 3        0    10,888    10888         17    16,665    16,682           54%           65% Aug-06       Jun-07
    Batch 4        0    16,207    16207          0    22,785    22,785           64%           71%  Jan-08     Aug-09
 North East        0     4428       4428         0    11223      11223             9%          39%  Jan-08     Nov-10
    Ampara         0     4,107      4107         0     9,284      9,284          10%           44% Mar-08      Nov-10
    Trinco.        0       321       321         0     1939       1,939            3%          17%  Jan-08     Oct-10
 Total        20,563    60,851    81,414    35,216   105,634   140,850           41%          58% Sep-03       Dec-10
Note: Completed schemes are schemes that have completed capital works as of December 2010.
Source: Project Monitoring Data.


B.1      Benefits

The two benefits estimated for the economic analysis are: (a) time-savings; and (b) the
value of incremental water consumption.
Time savings. Time savings are measured as the difference in time between accessing
water before and after the project. Based on data collected as part of the household
survey, time savings are estimated at 70 and 77 minutes/HH/day for gravity and pumping
schemes, respectively. The total time spent fetching water is calculated based on the
average number of trips per day and the average trip duration. On average, before the
project, households made 5.6 trips per day to fetch water, with little variation across
technology and Provinces. The average trip duration before the project was 13
minutes/trip. There are limited regional differences in trip duration. For example, the
average trip duration in the Central Province is close to 15 minutes/trip, whereas it is
close to 12 minutes/trip in the North West Province.
Time savings are valued at the opportunity cost of time, equivalent to the rural wage for
unskilled labor, estimated at 54 LKR/hour (2010 prices) based on household survey
data23. It is assumed that 20 percent of time savings is spent on income generation,
whereas the rest is spent on leisure (valued at 50 percent of the wage). 24
Incremental water consumption. The increase in water consumption associated with the
project is estimated at 39 lpcd. Before the project, the average household consumption,




23
   This wage rate is consistent with that reported in alternative sources: Rasseedin, T.M.R. (2007),
“Inflation, Wages and Prices in Sri Lanka: A Trade Union Perspective”, NATURE, Colombo.
< http://www.naturesl.lk/pdf/rp/Inflation_wages_and_price.pdf>
24
   At appraisal the time spent on leisure was valued at 30 percent of the wage rate for rural unskilled labor.


                                                         33
estimated at 29 lpcd25, was below subsistence level. After the project, water consumption
is estimated to have increased to 68 lcpd based on the meter readings that were carried
out as part of the 2010 household survey of selected project schemes. The level of per
capita water consumption for connected households surpassed the minimum requirement
of 40 lpcd for direct consumption, preparation of food and personnel hygiene,
recommended under the current National Policy for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation26.
The increase in water consumption is valued at 0.03 LKR/liter (2010 prices), equivalent
to the current tariff level.27 The estimate for incremental water consumption is likely to
be conservative as it is based on the assumption that the current tariff level is in line with
households’ Willingness-to-Pay for improved water supply.
Non-quantifiable benefits. The quantified benefits are expected to be significantly below
the overall level of benefits. The following additional benefits could not be quantified for
the purpose of the economic analysis:
     •   The health benefits associated with an increase in water consumption above
         subsistence level are expected to be important. However, attributing health
         benefits to sanitation or water investments is complicated due to confounding
         factors influencing health simultaneously.
     •   The additional benefits associated with continuity of supply are also likely to be
         important. About half of connected households interviewed as part of the
         household survey reported gaining access to 24/7 water supply, and 78 percent
         received piped water 7 days/week. Access to continuous water supply is expected
         to generate important additional economic benefits. The main benefit is the
         reduction in coping costs, as beneficiaries do not have to resort to additional
         sources of water to complement piped water consumption.




25
   Water consumption before the project is calculated based on data collected as part of the 2010 household
survey as the product of the number of trips per day per household (4.7 trips/hh/day), the number of
buckets carried per trip (1.48 buckets/trip), and the liters of water per bucket (15 liters/bucket).
26
   Ministry of Water Supply and Drainage, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Division, (2001). “National
Policy for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Sector”. <http://www.cwssp.org/rwssd2.html>.
27
   The tariff level is computed based on billing information collected as part of the household survey data.


                                                    34
B.2      Costs
Capital costs per household have been adversely affected by the lower than expected
household connection rates and the exceptional inflation that hit Sri Lanka immediately
after the Tsunami, as wholesale prices doubled from the time of project appraisal to
project closure. 28 Since price contingencies were not included in project costs, the
increase in inflation seriously affected the ability of the project to deliver the target level
of connections. Nominal unit costs escalation amounts to 124 and 143 percent for gravity
and pumping, respectively. Actual gravity costs are equivalent to 30,000 LKR per HH
compared to the 13,000 LKR per HH estimated at appraisal. A similar cost escalation is
recorded for pumping schemes, where actual pumping costs are 44,000 LKR per HH,
compared to 17,000 LKR per HH at appraisal. Even if the schemes were operating at the
target capacity, costs per household would still be well above the estimates at appraisal.
When costs are measured in real terms, unit cost escalation amounts to 35 percent and 45
percent for gravity and pumping schemes, respectively (relative to costs at appraisal). See
Table 3.
The analysis indicates that majority of the schemes are financially sustainable, as 83
percent of the schemes are reported to generate sufficient revenues to recover O&M
costs, based on the 2010 financial assessment.29 It is also worth noting that the level of
beneficiaries contributions (as a share of capital costs), including both labor and cash, is
above the 20 percent estimated at appraisal. Community contributions account for
roughly 30 percent of the capital costs.




28
  Prices of construction materials were driven upwards due to input scarcity resulting from the Tsunami.
29
  However, it is not possible to know based on the results of the technical assessments whether the current
level of O&M spending is adequate to ensure the economic sustainability of the piped schemes.


                                                    35
               Table 3: Capital Costs per Household and Community Contributions
                        (Completed Piped Schemes, Yard Tap Connections)
                         Gravity Unit Costs/HH             Pumping Unit Costs/HH        Community
                                                                                       Contributions,
                      Based on
                                     Based on Target Based on Current Based on Target Share of Total
                       Current
                                      Beneficiaries    Beneficiaries    Beneficiaries  Capital Costs
                     Beneficiaries
Central                     30,972             17,100           48,886          21,622           30%
  Batch 1                   14,545             14,025           22,777          18,828           30%
  Batch 2                   26,074             20,799           33,696          22,981           30%
  Batch 3                   25,769             18,331           43,078          24,587           27%
  Batch 4                   54,515             14,433           78,633          18,838           33%
North West                  14,389             12,939           35,821          24,315           27%
  Batch 1                   13,480             12,392           22,123          17,448           32%
  Batch 2                   17,519             15,594           35,652          22,453           25%
  Batch 3                          -           24,656           36,346          23,747           27%
  Batch 4                          -                            36,256          25,789           29%
North East                         -                            77,699          30,656           27%
  Ampara                           -                            69,757          30,859           29%
  Trincomalee                      -                           179,315          29,685           15%
Total                       30,292             16,992           43,670          23,843           29%
Notes: As of December 2010. Unit costs include community contributions. Costs for Trincomalee are estimates.
Source: Project Monitoring Data.


B.3        Economic Rate of Return
Both pipe-borne technologies yield satisfactory ERRs and NPVs. The ERRs are 30
percent and 18 percent for gravity and pumping schemes, respectively, implying that the
achieved benefits, in terms of both time savings and increase in water consumption, are
sufficient to guarantee the economic viability of the sub-projects. However, the ERRs are
slightly below the estimates at appraisal given that the expected level of time savings has
not materialized. 30 The lower ERR for pumping schemes is largely explained by the
higher capital costs, compared to gravity schemes (See Table 4). The satisfactory ERR is
consistent with the high level of beneficiaries’ satisfaction with the project - based on the
results of the 2010 household survey, 88 percent of beneficiaries reported to be satisfied
or very satisfied with the project.
                                Table 4: Baseline ERR and NPV (2010 LKR)


                                                  Gravity schemes                    Pumping schemes

ERR (%)                                                 30%                                 18%
NPV                                                  234 million                         147 million
NPV per HH connected as of Dec 2010                    11,000                              2,000




30
     The ERRs at appraisal were 43 and 25 percent for gravity and pumping, respectively.


                                                        36
Sensitivity Analysis

Time savings is the main parameter affecting the ERR. The threshold time savings that
result in a minimum 15 percent ERR are 48 minutes/HH/day for gravity schemes, and 71
minutes/HH/day for pumping schemes. The time savings for pumping schemes (77
min/HH/day) is therefore very close to the threshold value: the ERR for pumping
schemes falls below the 15 percent threshold if time savings are reduced by over 8
percent.

A sensitivity analysis was conducted to assess the robustness of the ERR calculations to
changes in the following additional parameters: (a) the rural wage rate, (b) O&M costs,
(c) time spent on income generation, and (d) value of incremental consumption. The ERR
for gravity schemes is robust to 20 percent changes in all parameters. The ERR for
pumping schemes is sensitive to changes to the level of O&M costs, rural wage, and the
share of time spent working (in addition to the level of time savings).

Allowing the number of beneficiaries to increase until the system capacity is reached will
lead to only a small increase in the ERR. As part of the sensitivity analysis, it was
calculated how the ERR would change if the number of beneficiaries as per system
capacity were reached within 15 years. While the expected increase in the number
connections will have a positive impact on the economic benefits of the component, the
impact would be small, as the benefits accruing to households that connect far into the
future are discounted more than the benefits to households connecting early on.

The parameters and data sources used for the economic analysis are summarized in Table
5.
              Table 5: Cost-benefit Analysis: Parameters and Data Source (2010 LKR)
                                                          Appraisal                 Completion
   Household size                                   5 people       PAD   4.16 people         Monitoring
                                                                                             Data
   Discount rate                                    15 percent    PAD    15 percent          PAD
   Asset life                                       15 years      PAD    15 years            PAD
   Gravity capital cost/HH                          26,000 LKR    PAD    35,721 LKR (*)      Monitoring
                                                                                             Data
   Pumping capital cost/HH                          34,000 LKR    PAD    49,803 LKR (*)      Monitoring
                                                                                             Data
   Community contribution, share of capital costs   20%           PAD    30%                 Monitoring
                                                                                             Data
   Gravity O&M costs/HH/month                       400 LKR       PAD    400 LKR             PAD
   Pumping O&M costs/HH/month                       600 LKR       PAD    600 LKR             PAD
   Time savings – Gravity schemes                   120           PAD    70 min/HH/day       HH Survey
                                                    min/HH/day
   Time savings - Pumping schemes                   120           PAD    77 min/HH/day       HH Survey
                                                    min/HH/day
   Real rural wage for unskilled labor              50 LKR/hour   PAD    54 LKR/hour         HH Survey
   Real wage growth (annual)                        -             -      0%                  ILO
   Increase in per capita piped water consumption   -             -      39 lpcd             HH Survey
   Value of per capita piped water consumption      -             -      0.03 LKR/liter      HH Survey


                                                      37
   Note: appraisal costs converted to 2010 prices. (*) based on current beneficiaries.

Sanitation

The economic analysis of the sanitation component was limited to an assessment of the
efficiency of the Sanitation Revolving Funds in scaling up coverage of on-site sanitation
facilities. Overall, 70 percent of the sanitation needs have been met over the course of project
implementation. The average revolving funds’ leverage ratio at 1.7 and the average recovery
rate of 76 percent were satisfactory, but with significant variation across Provinces. Table 6
summarizes the technical and financial performance of the sanitation component by Province.

                Table 6: Sanitation Revolving Funds – Technical and Financial Performance
                                                 Toilets Built       Toilet
                      Sanitation    Toilets                                  Unit Capital   Funds      Recovery
                                                                     Needs
                     Schemes (N)    Needs      Initial    Total                 Cost      Leveraged      Rate
                                                                    Covered
Central                      489      34,482    16,065    24,181         70%       4,224        1.54        74
  Batch 1                     18       2,016       873     1,816         90%       5,863        2.08         64
  Batch 2                     87       7,709     2,898     4,165         54%       4,512        1.44         78
  Batch 3                    191      15,154     7,582    10,814         71%       3,961        1.43         70
  Batch 4                    193       9,603     4,712     7,386         77%       2,777        1.57         84
North West                   248       9,544     4,683     9,225         97%       4,435        1.95        83
  Batch 1                     12         885       444       886       100%        5,905        2.00        100
  Batch 2                     51       2,855     1,439     2,740         96%       4,793        1.90         72
  Batch 3                     80       3,387     1,705     3,259         96%       4,261        1.91         86
  Batch 4                    105       2,417     1,095     2,340         97%       2,760        2.14         85
North East                    28      10,471     1,612     4,706         45%       3,706        1.54         74
  Ampara                      28       3,234     1,612     2,478         77%       3,706        1.54         74
  Trincomalee                NA        7,237       NA      2,228         31%         NA          NA         NA
Total                        765      54,497    22,360    38,112        70%        3,900        1.66         76
    Note: NA= Not/Available. Source: Project Monitoring Data.




                                                         38
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Toshiaki Keicho           Sr. Urban Environmental Spec.        ECSS3 Team Leader
Inez Fraile-Ordonez       Knowledge & Learning Coord.         EAPCO Team Leader
Kirsten Hommann           Senior Economist                    SASDU Eonomic Analysis
Philippe Dongier          Sector Manager                      TWICT
Deepal Fernando           Senior Procurement Specialist       SARPS Procurement
Sumith Pilapitiya         Lead Environmental Specialist        SASDI Environmental
Parameswaran Iyer         Sr. Water & Sanitation Spec.        MNSWA
Jan Janssens              Consultant                          WBIUR
                                                                     Social
Zarafshan Khawaja         Sr. Social Development Spec.        OPCQC
                                                                     Development
Jelena Pantelic           Country Manager                     BGFWB Team Leader
Enrique Pantoja           Sr. Land Administration Spec.       LCSAR
Andrea C. Ryan Rizvi      Senior Engineer/Economist           SASDE Economic Analysis
Lilian MacArthur          Program Assistant                   SASDO Administrative
Minatullah M. Khawaja     Consultant
Sasanka Perera
Rachel Kaufman
Anthony G. Lee                                                SASSD


Supervision/ICR
Toshiaki Keicho            Sr. Urban Environmental Spec.      ECSS3   Team Leader
Samantha P. Wijesundera    Water and Sanitation Specialist    SASDU   Team Leader
Kirsten Hommann            Senior Economist                   SASDU   Eonomic Analysis
Raghava Neti               Sr. Infrastructure Specialist      SASDU   ICR Author
William Kingdom            Lead Water & Sanitation Spec.      SASDU
Elisa Muzzini              Economist                          SASDU
Gabriella Aparicio         Junior Professional Associate      SASDU
Rosanna Nitti              Sr. Urban Specialist               SASDU
Farahnaz Azoor             Program Assistant                  SASDO Administration
Lilian MacArthur           Program Assistant                  SASDO Administrative
                                                                    Social
Samantha L. Forusz         Program Manager                    HRSAS
                                                                    Development
                                                                    Social
Asta Olesen                Senior Social Development Spec.    SASDS
                                                                    Development
Sumith Pilapitiya          Lead Environmental Specialist      SASDI Environmental
Amali Rajapaksa            Senior Infrastructure Specialist   SASDT


                                           39
Sunethra Chandrika
                              Procurement Specialist           SARPS Procurement
Samarakoon
Miriam Witana                 Procurement Specialist           EAPPR    Procurement
Deepal Fernando               Senior Procurement Specialist    SARPS    Procurement
Paula Reed                    Procurement Specialist           SARPR    Procurement
Santhanam Krishnan            Consultant                       SASSD
Tashi Tenzing                 Sr Sanitary Engineer             SASDU    Engineering
Jiwanka B. Wickramasinghe     Sr Financial Management Spec.    SARFM    Financial Mngt.
Supul Chamikara Wijesinghe    Financial Management Spec.       SARFM    Financial Mngt.
Nicholas Pilgrim              Water & Sanitation Specialist    TWISA
Sriyani de Alwis              Team Assistant                   SASDO    Administration


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                             --                      31.94
  FY00                                            45                      132.35
  FY01                                            58                      170.47
  FY02                                            71                      217.38
  FY03                                            74                      191.44
  FY04                                                                      0.00
  FY05                                                                      0.00
  FY06                                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                                      0.00
  FY08                                                                      0.00
                             Total:           248                         743.58
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                                      0.00
  FY00                                                                      0.00
  FY01                                                                      0.00
  FY02                                                                      0.00
  FY03                                                                      0.00
  FY04                                         23                          98.60
  FY05                                         30                         119.11
  FY06                                         24                          89.09
  FY07                                         37                         146.55
  FY08                                         27                         130.98
  FY09                                         42                         103.84
  FY10                                         50                         171.98
  FY11                                         58                         200.00
                             Total:           291                       1,060.15




                                             40
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
              (if any)

          Not Applicable




                41
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                     (if any)




                      42
     Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Part A: Borrowers Comments on the ICR

The response by the Borrower based on the ICR version submitted on 08th June 2011.

The Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Division of the Ministry of Water Supply &
Drainage as implementer of the Second Community Water Supply & Sanitation Project is
of the opinion that the project has achieved the development objective of the project
“Satisfactorily” having provided water supply to a population of 384,102 through the
construction of 1,054 pipe borne water supply schemes, 5,194 rainwater harvesting tanks,
1965 private wells, 770 common wells, 36 tube wells, 116 hand pumping wells. In
addition the project has provided sanitation facilities to 189,946 beneficiaries through the
construction of 45,660 latrines. Further to these measurable achievements the project has
been able to mobilize an otherwise deprived communities and empowered them in
numerous ways Micro Credit Programme, Health and Hyaline Education Programs,
Home Based and Village Based Environment Programmes etc. These are significant
achievements that cannot be overlooked. The project has also disbursed the funds fully
and the measurable outcomes too are improving with time. The “Moderately
Satisfactory” rating that is attributed to the project is irrational based on set of indicators
set by the Bank. These targets in some cases, were not practically achievable within the
time horizon of the project.

We cannot agree with this rating of the ICR for reasons pointed out in our detailed report
sent on 17th June 2011.

Following facts also to be considered.

   1. After withdrawal of US$ 7 Mn. for Tsunami Rehabilitation, no revision of the
      target has been done based on the field reality and inflation which went up almost
      3 times.
   2. Rating is based on 03 factors consisting 06 components. Except unrealistic
      coverage, target at the closure, all others are satisfactory.
   3. Coverage by the Estate Sector (Pilot) has not been included in the coverage target
      at the closure.
   4. 59 abandoned sub projects consisting 19752 HHs, has not been deducted from the
      coverage target.
   5. Trincomalee district in Eastern Province was badly affected by the conflict. It had
      weak local authorities and POs. Access to some project areas was limited as they
      were located within high security zones. Scarcity of water sources and poor
      participation by some ethnic groups. Under these factors, Eastern PC would have
      been assessed separately.
   6. This project was Community Based, Demand Driven. Development of social
      capital, stakeholder capacity building, were among the objectives. Implementation
      was based on “participatory approach”. But these qualitative aspects were not
      taken into consideration in the rating.


                                              43
       7. 4th batch (heaviest) consists 316 Sub Projects. 273 completed recently. House
          connections are obtained gradually. During the last five months 22979 new house
          connections taken. Balance 46 sub projects consists 19627 HHs. These HHs
          should be deducted from the coverage target.
       8. This is a pilot in all its aspects. Achievements are remarkable. Just because of
          the unrealistic coverage target, it should not be rated as “Moderately
          Satisfactory”.

    COMMENTS ON THE BANK ICR – 2nd CWSSP

    3.4 justification of Overall Outcome rating

    Indicator 1

    375,000 connections out of 719,700 = 52%.

    The original coverage target of the project was set in 2002 at the time of preparation. It
    was 1.1 million. After withdrawal of US$ 7 Mn. for tsunami rehabilitation, the target was
    proportionately reduced from the original target to 719,700. No revision of the target has
    been made thereafter.

    However, immediately after the tsunami, inflation went up almost three times. The
    classic example of this change is appeared in the unit cost.

                               Unit cost at           Actual Unit cost
                               appraisal              at closure
           Gravity             Rs 13,000              Rs 30,000
           Pumping             Rs 17,000              Rs 44,000

    At least, at the time of mid term review, the project coverage target would have revised
    based on the ground situation. Non revision has resulted in setting an unrealistic target to
    achieve. Coverage at the project closure, looks like a low output when compared with the
    unrealistic target. In that context, it does not look fair to consider the project as low. It
    means the mechanism used to measure the coverage seems to be wrong. If timely
    revision of the target was done, the output would have been very high.

•   Some Indicators used for rating the performance, are not suitable for a project of this
    nature. This project is community based, demand driven which is equally concerned of
    developing the social capital to ensure sustainability, while providing safe drinking water
    and basic sanitation facilities.

•   In assessing the project, qualitative aspects are completely ignored, although the whole
    project was implemented adopting the participatory development approach




                                                 44
Eastern Province

Trincomalee district was badly affected by the conflict for long years. When project
started its activities in Trincomalee, immediately after the liberation, there was no time
for people to recover from the ill effects of terrorism.

We observed low performance in Trincomalee district (Eastern Province) due to:

-   prolonged conflict during last 30 years
-   poor participation of beneficiaries particularly by Muslims
-   poor performance by the local authorities
-   Inefficient and inexperienced Partner Organizations
-   Low affordability of people
-   Scarcity of reliable water sources
-   Some project areas were located within the high security zones, etc.

When coverage figures of Trincomalee add to the total, it automatically pushes down the
average.

Since these locations are different to the rest of the project locations, it would have been
better to assess the performance of the Eastern province separately considering these
socio economic conditions. If this was done, project rating on coverage would have
been higher.

Reasons for house connections to be at 52%.

•   Usually, the house connections are obtained by beneficiaries in a gradual manner. Out
    of 316 sub projects of 4th batch, (which is the heaviest batch) 273 have been recently
    completed. Obtaining of house connections takes place, as previously experienced,
    within 4 – 6 months from the commission of the water scheme. This is proven by the
    following figures. During the last five months (since the project closure) 22,979 new
    house connections have been obtained by the beneficiary HHs. When that amount
    adds to the coverage figures at the closure, 52% rises up to 65%, while pipe borne
    coverage of 50% rises up to 64%. This shows that the coverage figures are
    increasing rapidly.

•   The number of sub projects under each batch is given below.

              Batch               No. of Sub               Beneficiary
                                      Projects                 HHs
              Batch I             30                       4,747
              Batch II            138                      24,218
              Batch III           262                      55,531
              Batch IV            316                      91,830


                                             45
    3rd and 4th batches accommodate 77% of the total sub projects and 84% of the total
    HHs. The 1st and 2nd batches coverage is at a very high rate (85%) because ample
    time was taken for obtaining house connections. But in the case of 3rd and 4th, which
    were completed recently, did not get adequate time for the beneficiaries to obtain
    house connections. This situation has an adverse impact on the rating of
    coverage.
•   Connections are being given as and when they are ready to pay the dues
•   Original coverage target includes the future population growth
•   People who have not participated in the project activities at the beginning did not
    want to pay their contributions to obtain the connections. They go behind politicians
    to get the connections free of charge.
•   People using their own water sources continued to do so until those water sources are
    affected by drought or floods.
•   There were 46 sub projects incomplete at the closure, but by 31st May 2011, the
    numbers has come down to 23. These figures are not considered.
•   59 sub projects with 19,752 HHs abandoned before the mid term review but these
    figures were not deducted from the target.

Rating “Moderately satisfactory”

Rating is based on 3 factors
• Relevance;
   o PDO and Design are highly relevant to country’s development target, and
   o It is also very relevant to WB - CAS and
   o It is relevant to global WSS objectives as well.
• Efficiency;
   o Very efficient financial disbursement. 100% disbursed during the project period.
       Efficient ERR. High time saving.
• Achievement of PDO; 2 parts
   o i. coverage; With latest figures as at 31st May 2011, it has gone up to 65%.
       However, the coverage figure taken for rating at closure is 52%. This is the only
       area where progress is comparatively low.
   o ii. achievement of effective and sustained use of WSS services; as sighted in the
       report, there is a high achievement in this area. 46% of the WS Schemes provide
       24/7 supply while the CBOs are managing their quality, quantity and finances
       ensuring long. term sustainability

Performance in all three factors is satisfactory except coverage at the closure. If this is the
situation, why it is rated as ‘moderately satisfactory’? Is it the problem of the rating
mechanism? If so, is it fair to place the blame on the client?

2.4 Procurement

Two cases of misprocurement have been declared.




                                              46
Out of a total of US$ 35 Mn. of procurement only US$ 21,000 equivalent of 0.7% of the
total procurement was categorized as misprocurement

Project has trained CBOs to procure a large volume of pipes, fittings and other building
materials etc. Similarly, PCs also have procured many items of high value.

Because of the two items of negligible value, project procurement component should not
be generalized as weak.

Suggestions

Considering the overall achievements, it should have been rated at least as “Satisfactory”.

Present coverage is just one part of 3rd factor assessed. All other components are
categorized as satisfactory. In such a situation to make a rating based on one fraction of a
component, seems to be unfair by the poor people (CBOs) who have contributed their
time and labour on voluntary basis, hard earned money (more than 30% of the capital
cost) and their knowledge and experience.

Therefore, it is suggested to rate the project as ‘satisfactory’ and if needed to state that
due to unrealistic target, low output figures were recorded at the time of closure.

This project looks a major pilot project testing three different approaches.

•   This Project is the first ever national project of its kind under decentralized project
    approach. It is decentralized to the periphery through provincial and local levels. PCs
    and PSs have never experienced a project of this nature. They were not familiar with
    Participatory Development approach and also partnership with NGOs and CBOs. PCs
    were disbursing large sums of money to PSs making them responsible for further
    disbarments to CBOs and POs. By involving PCs and PSs, they were given an
    opportunity to gain experience and knowledge in the implementation of community
    driven development approach. This is the case with NGOs and CBOs who severed as
    partners. Knowledge imparted to them by the Project is nothing but investment in
    Human Resource Development, which will lead to ensure long-term sustainability of
    the water schemes constructed by the beneficiaries. Therefore, we believe that these
    outcomes should also be given due weightage.

•      The project has implemented a pilot in Estate sector. Estate workers were never
    experienced in organizing themselves for development of infrastructure in the estates.
    Workers have never organized themselves into proper organizations like CBOs. They
    were never experienced in handling large sums of money.

•   Project has had interventions in the Eastern Province. These areas were liberated after
    30 years of terrorism. First time in the history, we have implemented community
    based participatory approach in the WSS sector, through this project. People in these
    project areas have undergone severe social and economic hardships. Therefore, it was
    impossible for the project to organize these people and get them to contribute labour

                                              47
    and cash towards the capital cost of water supply schemes. However, the project has
    developed strategies to overcome these implementation issues and finally brought
    some encouraging results. When considering the above facts, it is evident that the 2nd
    CWSSP is nothing but a pilot project. In that context, achievements made by this
    project are remarkable. Therefore, when assessments/ratings are carried out on
    projects of this nature, we firmly believe that qualitative outcomes should also be
    considered.

Part B: Summary of Borrowers ICR (summarized by Bank team to 10 pages)

1. Cost Analysis
Actual cost: The following table shows the estimated fund requirement and the actual
cost incurred by the project as at the end. It is important to note that the community
contribution is much higher than the estimated. This also shows that the communities
were faced with a lot of hardships in completing the project. Project did not have the
flexibility in changing the cost sharing rules to accommodate the additional fund
requirement due to price escalations, change in designs, or capacity improvements etc.

Table: Estimated and actual project cost.
                                        Estimated Cost                           Actual Cost
                                 Amount in                         Amount in
     Financing Source            UD$ Million           %           US$ Million                 %
IDA Grant ( Revised)                      32.80          59.21%             36.95               58.49%

Beneficiary Communities                   11.90          21.48%             17.31               27.40%

GOSL ( RWSSD,PC&PS)                       10.70          19.31%              8.91               14.11%

                        Total             55.40        100.00%              63.17              100.00%


Average construction cost: According to the table below Trincomalee has recorded the
highest average household cost while Central Province has recorded the lowest.
Trincomalee was considered the worst affected project location due to terrorist activities
that have prevailed at that time. Therefore it was very difficult to organize communities
and get them involved this type of participatory development activities. Mostly women
headed families or families just returned from Refugee Camps were seen in project
locations. As a result they were not in a mindset to take up project work or they did not
have any savings to contribute towards the project.

Table: Fund disbursement for Civil works
                                                            No of HH         Cost per HH
                                Act. Construction cost
       Province
North Western                             848,370,722              50,734              16,722
Central                                 1,465,012,472             104,484              14,021
Ampara                                    223,912,664              11,071              20,225



                                                  48
Trincomalee                                  93,645,548              5,052    18,536
Total                                    2,630,941,406            171,341     15,355


2. Project Performance and outcome

At a glance: At a glance, the project has achieved the targeted quantitative results within
the project period. In the village water supply sector, Project has provided safe drinking
water to over 719,700 beneficiaries in 177,947 beneficiary households in addition to
sanitary toilets for 53,302 households

House connections: Out of the originally targeted 183,313 households for provision of
safe drinking water, 37,115 Households are excluded due to ongoing projects and
abandoned projects. As at date, 88,849 house connections are provided to remaining
target of 146,198 making a progress of 61%. However, this achievement may not be
impressive if the remaining beneficiaries are not in a position to obtain water connections
for the rest of the project life. But the situation is different. Sub projects are designed for
15 years horizon taking into account the potential development that would take place
with the arrival of water. Similarly some of the beneficiaries who have not participated
in project activities are liable to pay a higher connection fee calculated based on
voluntarily labour and mandatory community contribution. Therefore, they are given
concessionary payment schemes to get the water connections. This process may slow
down the speed of increasing the number of house connections. Also the past experience
suggests that 100% house connections are achieved after about 2 years of project
completion. Projects in batch IV have not completed even one year resulting very little
number of house connections.

Table: No. of House connections in Gravity and Pumping schemes As at 30.04.2011
    Province        Target HH          Actual No. of        %
                                        connections
Central               83,387               45,177            55
North Western         50,367               37,585            75
Ampara                 9,537                4107            43
Trincomalee            1,348                 421             31
Estates                1,559                1,559           100
Total                146,198*              88,849            61
    * Excluding ongoing and abandoned projects

Intangible Benefits

The outcome of CWSSP cannot be easily measured. Some key outcomes31 are


31
     Relevant subtitles were provided by the Bank team and text summarized.



                                                    49
•   Time savings: When a family saves time and distance in fetching water, there is a
    complete transformation in the quality of lives of the family and use of time saved for
    productive purposes, which contributes to the reduction of poverty. Average time
    saved in various PSs ranged between 30 min. to 4 hours.
•   Sanitation, Hygiene and Health: The sanitation and hygiene education programme
    combined with safe drinking water supply, greatly improved health conditions of the
    rural populations, with the resultant reduction in health related expenditure and
    contributed to labour productivity. It was commonly seen that the quantity of water
    consumed has drastically gone up with the house connections.
•   Environmental Improvement: The project lays heavy emphasis on the improvement
    of the environment at the household as well as the village level, through which, the
    beneficiary families get used to a culture of environmental protection and
    conversation.
•    Social Development and CBOs: Through the project new leadership and clear
     direction towards socio economic development and entire village rallying round the
     CBO for its development activities. The CBO gradually became the link between the
     government agencies as well as other development agencies such as banks,
     international agencies, INGOs, NGOs etc and the village, an eventually the de facto
     the development centre of the village, promoting social cohesiveness. Quite unlike
     most village level institutions which are nominated or elected without adequate
     preparation of the background, CBOs are formed through a different and a dynamic
     process. Office bearers of the CBO, emerge naturally from the small groups.
•    Women Empowerment: The project has given great relief to women both adult and
     young by relieving them of the drudgery of fetching water for the households. There
     had been many instances where young schools going girls are pulled out from school
     to help the mother to fetch water for the family. Provision of toilets under the
     sanitation programme has saved the embarrassment particularly of women due to
     open defecation. Women office bearers in CBOs has been over 50%.
•    Human Resource development: There are large numbers of intangible benefits such
     as development of management and leadership skills, Human Resource
     Development, building up a self confidant rural community by weaning them away
     from the dependency syndrome etc.
•    Community Capacity Building: CWSSP proved that the community has the capacity
     for development and management of rural infrastructure programs. Their dependency
     attitude was changed to self management. The “Participatory Community
     Development” model developed by the CWSSP can be used with great advantage by
     rural development practitioners both in Sri Lanka and outside.
•    Technology Adoption: Rain water harvesting was introduced by the project, which
     technology has been finding acceptance gradually. The Ferro Cement technology
     was introduced by the project and has gained wide acceptance. This has contributed
     to reduce the tank construction cost by 40%.
•    Willingness to Pay: The willingness of the beneficiary communities to contribute as
     much as 35% of the construction cost as against mandated 20% reflects the
     motivation created by the project to own and manage WSS facilities.



                                            50
•   Sanitation Revolving Fund: SRF under the project was designed to provide financial
    assistance to all the prospective beneficiaries, along with effective hygiene
    promotion program, social mobilization. Beneficiaries who cannot afford to pay are
    given certain concessions at the end, such as loans without interest or part loans with
    grant components or complete grants, as well. SRF is fully controlled by the CBO.

A number of villages have 100% household covered with toilets, as per table below:

                  Table; No of villages with 100% sanitation coverage
               District            No of villages with 100% coverage
               Kurunegala                            195
               Kandy                                 117
               Matale                                 80
               Nuwara Eliya                           67
               Ampara                                  2
               Trincomalee
               Total                                  471


•   Capacity Building of Stakeholders: Capacities of all stakeholders involved in
    project implementation have been further strengthened by the project to ensure the
    effective and efficient implementation of the project. Staff of the RWSS Division,
    PC Units, PS Cells, POs, was continuously trained throughout the project period.
•   Procurement Innovations: It was found that rate of PVC pipes at local level was 30-
    40% higher than the direct supply rates offered by major manufacturers. Therefore,
    CBOs procured PVC pipes directly from manufactures based in Colombo at highly
    competitive rates. Rural communities have gained recognition due to these project
    activities. The CBO managed procurement process was a success, being transparent
    and cost effective. The project was able to prevent delays as well as irregularities that
    could have happened if these procurements were undertaken by officials of local
    authorities and provincial councils. It is important to note that not even a single
    major irregularity reported in the CBO procurement process throughout the project
    period.
•   People’s audit: People’s audit of CBO account in addition to the routine audits
    carried out by the Auditor General, during the project period. The concept of a
    people’s audit was an innovative mechanism introduced by the project. On one
    hand, it ensures transparency. On the other, it ensures the participation of
    beneficiaries in the decision making process without leaving it entirely in the hands
    of the few office bearers.
•   Plantations Sector (Estates): The project adopted innovative strategies to achieve
    breakthrough in implementing community based WSS schemes in the plantation
    sector. Except in Kotiyagala, all WS schemes achieved a high degree of success.
    There was a highly structured social system within the plantations inherited from the
    colonial days. There was a huge social gap between the plantation managers and the


                                            51
     workers. The project succeeded in persuading the senior managers to sit round the
     table with the workers in order to take decisions relating to WSS schemes.

3. Lessons learned32

CBOs and Community Involvement: The project had succeeded in establishing links
between the CBO and mainstream development process future development initiatives.
Networking amongst CBOs and with other government agencies helped the CBOs to
widen their horizons and to engage in varied economic and social activities. Community
involvement has helped in harnessing indigenous knowledge, promotion of a sense of
ownership, good governance including people’s supervision of accounts and peoples
audit.

CBOs: There is something unique in the establishment of the CBO itself. Whereas most
other village institutions are established at the behest of a public officer, the CBO is
formed by enlightened small groups who are formed after the interaction with
beneficiaries. Small groups take great care to select the right office bearers including the
chairman because they are in turn responsible to the larger beneficiary community.

Assistance to CBOs: It may be necessary for a regular agency to service the CBOs in
respect of technical, financial and management matters and also provide training and to
expose them to new developments in respect of above has clearly surfaced. This
structure would facilitate networking and building up a pyramidal organization, starting
from the grass roots, divisional, district and national level apex organization. This would
give stability to the CBOs after the closure of the project. However, the project was
developed with the decentralized approach to link the CBOs to the PSs, and the Provinces
through the RWSS Units. Therefore, there will not be an urgency for a national agency.

The project heavily depended on training as a tool to buildup human resources within the
sub project area. The skills offered and knowledge imparted through 38 training modules
developed by the project enhanced the overall capacity of the beneficiary villagers both
for management of CBOs as well as for self employment. Continuous training in capacity
building is of paramount importance for the stability of the CBOs. Every time new office
bearers are appointed, they are exposed to training. There is a special training
programme at the commencement of every activity.

The importance of training the CBO office bearers in financial management on a
continued basis has been strongly felt. Very often the trained CBO members leave the
portfolios leaving the new hands to takeover. The importance of preparation of annual
financial statements and independent Audit cannot be over emphasized.



32
  Relevant sub-titles were provide by the Bank team and text summarized and reorganized within the
subtitles.



                                                  52
Social Mobilization: Through awareness creation, it was possible to sensitize the people
to the eligibility of a higher quality of life for themselves as well as for their younger
generation. This is strong motivation factor for them to use their skills and the hidden
potential to the maximum. The innovative social mobilization process which helped to
achieve the above goals was a major contributory factor to the success of the project.

Beneficiary Contribution / Selection Criteria: Although the project insisted on a
contribution by the beneficiaries in the form of cash and labour, it was sensitive to the
needs of the poorest who are unable to make this contribution. In respect of water
supply, the CBO is given the discretion to offer concessionary rates to this vulnerable
group. Even in respect of sanitation assistance, the CBO is persuaded to construct the
toilets for the poorest.

It is important to select the deserving villages using correct selection criteria. The
scarcity of drinking water is obviously the main criterion. Since the beneficiaries have to
bare 20% of the capital cost, it is necessary to asses the capacity of the beneficiaries to
make their contributions towards the construction of the water scheme. There can be
some locations where, the need is much higher but they are not in a position to contribute
as much as 20%. Project should have had the flexibility to change these criteria as and
when needed.

Presently the project sets apart a flat amount as the contribution per family based on the
technology, for all CBOs irrespective of the individual circumstances. This has created
some problems for some CBOs who have to spend more for construction on account of
inaccessibility to water sources and difficult terrain. Project should have had some
flexibility in determining the household cost ceilings.

Need for establishing links to Economic Programmes: A trend has been observed for
the CBO finances to become weak after 2-3 years, after initial excitement disappears.
Therefore, as a part of building up financial stability, economic programmes need to be
introduced to enhance the capacity to pay the water tariff. Activities such as
diversification micro credit and other economic activities enhance the income of the
community. This facilitates the payment of water tariff which is critical for the smooth
functioning of water supply schemes as well as of the CBO.

Accountability: It is important to make the office bearers accountable to the beneficiaries,
through organizing regular meetings, and oversight by the Project – to prevent misuse of
funds by the office bearers.

PSs, PCs involvement: The Provincial Councils have their own units under a Regional
Director appointed by the project which oversee the implementation of sub projects. This
model has far reaching implications as there would be continuity of servicing the CBOs
and the water schemes after the closure of the project. Further more, this ensures that
WSS systems get absorbed into the regular institutional system. The involvement of the
PCs and PSs is further consolidated by the requirement that they should contribute 5% of
the capital cost.



                                            53
Eastern Province: A strong lesson that the project learned by implementing sub projects
in conflict affected areas in the Eastern Province is the need for flexibility in respect of
minimum contribution by the community, including labour contribution. A case in point
is that it is not possible to get the labour input where muslim women are chief
householders. Furthermore, they do not work alongside men. However, in areas like
Rathmalkatuwa, where all three communities live, Muslim women have provided labour
willingly even under very difficult circumstances equally together with men.

Technologies: The project selected technologies most appropriate for the beneficiaries so
that they could easily absorb them without external assistance. But the project does not
intend to keep them at the same level of technology in the future as well. Programmes
were conducted to impart knowledge on computing, generation of computerized billing
systems, credit portfolio monitoring etc. They were also exposed to advanced
technologies in pipe fitting, repair of water pumps and water meters etc.

Sustaining Beneficiary Interest: The project was conscious that it would not be possible
to uplift the standard of life of communities through supply of water and sanitation.
Where the activities were confined to the supply of water and sanitation, the CBOs found
it difficult to sustain the interest of the beneficiaries after these services were offered and
the CBO as an institution became almost irrelevant. It is in this context, that diversified
activities were promoted to maintain the momentum and to sustain the interest of the
beneficiary community. Diversification of CBO activities is promoted with a special
purpose in mind. It enhances the quality of life of the beneficiaries and also increases the
capacity to pay the water tariff. This is the finest way to ensure the complementarity
between the CBOs and the beneficiaries.

Sustainability Focus: The continued emphasis on sustainability was the most important
feature in the project. The project was right through conscious that the CBOs will have to
manage one day without the patronage of the project. It was also conscious that the
sound management of the CBO is absolutely necessary from the very commencement.
There are numerous examples of water supply and sanitation infrastructure facilities
provided by government, INGOs and NGOs without preparing the background for the
proper use of these facilities. In the case of water infrastructure facilities, they go into
disuse in view of lack of institutional arrangements for operation and maintenance. In
the case of sanitary facilities there are many instances where the facility had never been
used for the purpose intended.

Community Ownership: One of the finest strategies that worked was the inculcating the
concept of ownership of the facilities from the very inception. Since the beneficiaries
participate in the planning, design and construction of the facility they get this sense of
ownership. This is further strengthened by the contribution made by each individual
beneficiary in the form of cash and labour. The significance of this changing attitude
should be understood in the context of the dependency mindset of the rural communities
which was inherited from colonial times. “The government is the giver of everything and
the recipients have to only enjoy what is given”. This misconception had not only killed
the initiative of the people, but they tend to blame the government for all their woes.



                                              54
A special feature in the project was that the community remains in the centre while the
project staff was relegated to the background. This was a fine strategy to persuade the
community to be responsible for their destiny. This also promoted initiatives of the
beneficiaries to manage their affairs to their best advantage.

Women Empowerment: The personality of the rural women that the project succeeded in
building up could be seen in sub projects such as Kandemeeya where all office bearers
are women. They have come forward from their “withdrawing” mentality to manage the
affairs not only of the households but of the village as well. The active involvements of
women were seen in virtually all CBOs. It is fair to comment that few institutions may
have contributed to the empowerment of women as much as CWSSP.

4. Sustainability

Many factors contribute to the sustainability of the project. At planning stage itself,
CWSSP gave thought to sustainability aspects and commenced many activities keeping
this dimension in mind.

Since CBOs will have to continue as independent entities, it is imperative that their
financial status should be strengthened. This would mean systematic accounting, book
keeping and auditing. Similarly, total transparency should be observed in respect of all
transactions and the membership should have access to all records of the transactions.
CBO officials are well trained on these activities by the Community Facilitators.

The CBO office bearers make all efforts to maintain a high quality of management and
institutional setup. Responsibilities are delegated to different people for different
activities such as maintenance, billing and water tariff collection etc. In some complex
water supply schemes, these activities are being carried out by paid workers under their
supervision. Water supply schemes run for more than 4 to 5 years have proven that these
systems are very effective.

Establishment of Water Quality Surveillance System is of utmost importance to maintain
the quality of water. Chemicals such as chlorine are used where necessary in addition to
filtration systems with roughing and slow sand filters. Water samples are tested at regular
intervals for bacteria and chemical contamination where appropriate. National Water
Quality Surveillance Committee at the Ministry of Health has already established a
system for close interaction with the NWSDB district offices and the CBOs for the
testing of samples as well as for purification of contaminated water.

As a part of the diversification programme, new activities such as water bottling, mini
hydro are being investigated by the CBOs. However, if there is a financial support, CBOs
could provide a platform to experiment Solar Power and Wind Power for pumping
schemes.

CBOs are being transformed to “Village Development Centers”. This is already
happening in most of the villages where the CBOs standout as strong institutions.


                                            55
The CBO office bearers have established links with divisional and district level
government agencies and this has greatly facilitated inflow of government assistance to
rural villages. Strong linkages are being established with other service providers such as
NWSDB and other extension services of the line ministries.

In view of strengthening CBOs as accepted institutions, particularly after the closure of
the project, CBO Federations have been formed at village to national level. They can be
an independent force that can negotiate with the government with regard to RWSS
services. In some districts, CBO federations are already formed at Divisional and District
level and are playing a significant role.

Under the decentralized project implementation mechanism, it is expected that the
provincial RWSS Units, formed under the direct supervision of the Chief Secretary to
continue even after the closure of the project to take care of the RWSS functions. It is
encouraging to note that the Central and North Western Provinces have already made
financial allocations in their annual budgets for RWSS sector activities. This will ensure
the existence of these Units as permanent bodies to make presence within the provinces.

As envisaged in the project proposal, PSs and the Divisional Secretaries are very much
involved in the project. DS and the Chairman of the PS are the co-chairmen of the
Divisional Coordination Committee (DCC) therefore; they are involved in the project
implementation right from the beginning. This has created a unique opportunity for the
CBOs to approach them even after the project is completed. More importantly, the DS
has the powers to interfere with all aspects of CBO activities. Any complain made with
regard to malpractices, irregularities or non compliance, DS could intervene and bring the
situation under control in order to establish good governance. Therefore, the CBOs while
enjoying the freedom to work as an independent body should adhere to the countries law.

However, in order to bring about a uniform national organization to look in to the affairs
of the CBOs operating rural water supply schemes, RWSS Division has made several
attempts to create a legal entity such as an Agency, Fund or a Trust as requested by the
Ministry of Water Supply and Drainage through a Cabinet paper. The final report
including a draft for the formation of a trust fund deed is now ready to be sent to the
Cabinet of Ministers for approval.

The methodology developed by CWSSP particularly for the involvement of the
beneficiaries is now being used not only in other RWSS schemes but also in other
development projects. Rural development programs such as Gamaneguma, Maganuguma,
Samurdi etc. are adopting these mechanisms to ensure active participation and
involvement of the beneficiary communities.




                                           56
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


                          Not Applicable




                               57
                     Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document of Second Community Water Supply and Sanitation
   project
2. Bank mission documents – Aide Memoires, Internal Status Reports
3. Other project documents – Project Agreement: IDA GRANT NUMBER H035 –CE,
   dated June 24, 2003, Sectoral Environmental Assessment (February 2003), Integrated
   Safeguard Data Sheet, dated November 26, 2002
4. Country Assistance Strategy, dated April 23, 2003 (Report No. 25413-CE)
5. Country Assistance Strategy, dated May 07, 2008 (Report No: 43471-LK)
6. Government of Sri Lanka’s
       a. National Policy for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Sector (2001),
       b. Draft National Policy for Rural Sanitation (June 2006)
       c. National Rain Water Policy and Strategies (Rural) -1st draft March 2006
       d. Pradeshiya Sabha’s Act No. 15 of 1987
       e. Mahinda Chintana 2010 – The Vision Ahead




                                         58
                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 38649

INDIA                                 80°E                                                             81°E                                                           82°E




                                                                                                                                                        SRI LANKA
10°N
                                                                                                                                    SECOND
                  it                                                                                                         COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY
              a
                                                         Point Pedro
                                                                                                                             AND SANITATION PROJECT
          r
       St
      k




                               Jaffna
 Pal




                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT DISTRICTSS
                                                                     Elephant Pass
                                                                                                                                                             SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                             PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                     Killinochchi
                                                                                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                Mullaittivu                                                  RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                             MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                              Bay of
                       Talaimannar                     Manakulam                                                                                             RAILROADS
                                                                                                              Bengal
                                                                                                                                                             DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
9°N                              Mannar               NORTHERN
                                                                                                          Pulmoddai
                                                                                                                                                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                             Vavuniya
 Gulf of
                                                                                                      TRINCOMALEE
                                                                                                                             Trincomalee
 Mannar
                                                   NORTH CENTRAL                                                    Thambalagamuwa
                                                                          Rambewa                                              Mutur
                                              Anuradhapura
                                                                                                              Kantale
                                                                         Galkulama
            Kalpitiya
                                                                                                                                                                           INDIAN

                  Puttalam                                                  Habarane
                                                                                                                                                                           OCEAN
8°N                                                                                                                                                                                                            8°N

                             NORTH                                                   Dambulla
                             WESTERN                         Maho

                                                                            Omaragalla                                                     Batticaloa
                                                                                                                                              Kattankudi
                                               KURUNEGALA
                  Chilaw                                                              MATALE                                    EASTERN
                                                                        Ibbagamuwa
                                               Kurunegala
                                                 Pothuhera                                                                                         Kalmunai
                                                                          CENTRAL
                                                                                       KANDY                                                 Ampara

                Negombo                Ambepussa                                Kandy
                                                              Kegalla
                                                                                                                   U VA                            AMPARA

7°N                                                                             NUWARAELIYA                   Badulla                                                                                          7°N
          COLOMBO
 Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte                                                                                                                                      Pottuvil

                   Moratuwa
                                 WESTERN                                                                                             Monaragala

                                                                    Ratnapura
                                                                                                                    Wellawaya


                           Kalutara                            SABARAGAMUWA
                                                                                                                                                           Kumana              SRI LANKA
 Laccadive                                                                                                                           Kataragama



          Sea
                                                                                     SOUTHERN
                                                                                                                        Hambantota
                                                     Galle
6°N                                                                                         Tangalla                                                                                                            6°N
                                                                          Matara
                                                                                                                                                                           0       20        40        60 Kilometers
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                           0     10     20        30     40 Miles
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                          81°E                                                            82°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                            JULY 2011
