Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2791-NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
SECOND MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 1, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its colltents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:             CFA franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00:                  CFAF 210
CFAF 1,000:               US$ 4.76
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg):           2.20 pounds
1 metric ton:             0.98 long tons
1 hectare (ha)            2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km):         0.62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS
ALC              Associations Locales de Cooperatives
CCCE             Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CFJA             Centre de Formation des Jeunes Agriculteurs
CNCA             Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
CPR              Centre de Promotion Rurale
FSF              Farm Supplies Fund
GMV              Groupement Mutualiste Villageois
IFAD-FIDA        International Fund for Agricultural Development
INRAN            Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique du Niger
ONAHA            Office National des Amenagements Hydro-Agricoles
PMU              Project Management Unit
SCET
International    Societe Centrale pour l'Equipement du Territoire
International
SICONIGER        Societe Industrielle et Commerciale du Niger
SONARA           Societe Nigerienne d'Arachide
SONIPRIM         Societe Nigerienne de Commercialisation des Primeurs
SONITEXTIL       Societe Nouvelle Nigerienne des Textiles
UNCC             Union Nigerienne de Credit et de Cooperation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
SECOND MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Niger
Amount:              US$16.7 Million
Terms:               Standard
Pro-ject             The project comprises a five-year program intended
Description:       to increase farm incomes and improve the welfare and
standard of living of the rural population of Maradi
Province and strengthen and improve the existing project
organization through: (a) the expansion of improved
cultural practices in rainfed farming areas; (b) training
the extension staff in the "Training and Visit" system;
(c) agricultural credit for the purchase of incremental
inputs and farm equipment; (d) development of 740 ha
of irrigated farming; (e) construction and equipment
of an irrigation center; (f) applied agricultural
research; (g) a seed multiplication program; (h) develop-
ment of functional literacy and health programs, and
maintenance activities for the wood plantation and
livestock programs financed under Credit 608-NIR; (i)
technical assistance to the Project Management Unit
(PMU); (j) a project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. The
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
and the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE) would contribute US$12 million and US$7 million
respectively. The project would benefit 63,000 farm
families in rainfed agriculture and 2,600 in irrigation
development. Risks are small for the rainfed component.
Benefits from the irrigation component may be lower than
expected if double cropping should fall short of appraisal
targets. Consequently special attention will be paid
during supervision to extension work in irrigation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost: 1/                     Local          Foreign         Total
-----------US$ Million-----------
Civil Works/Construction                0.2             0.3            0.5
Irrigation Works                        1.5             3.9            5.4
Vehicles, Equipment,
Other Investments                    0.7              3.4            4.1
Incremental Agricultural
Credit Program                       3.7              1.8            5.5
Expatriate Staff                        0.7             2.9            3.6
Local Staff                             8.8               -            8.8
Other Operating Costs                   4.5             2.5            7.0
Central Evaluation Unit                   -             1.2            1.2
Base Cost Estimate        20.1            16.0           36.1
Physical Contingencies   1.2               1.2            2.4
Price Contingencies        5.4             3.6            9.0
Total               26.7            20.8           47.5
%                   56              44            100
IDA     IFAD      CCCE      GOV'T    FARPIERS     TOTAL
…U____________---IJS$ Million---------------------
Local Cost      8.1       7.0      2.4        7.7        1.5        26.7
Foreign Cost   8.6        5.0      4.6        2.6         -         20.8
Total    16.7      12.0       7.0       10.3       1.5        47.5
%        35        25        15         22         3         100
Estimated IDA      FY          FY          FY          FY          FY         FY
Disbursements:   1981         1982        1983        1984        1985        1986
--------------US$ M-illion--------------
Annual           1.6         2.9         3.25        3.67        3.53        1.75
Cumulative       1.6         4.5         7.75       11.42       14.95      16.7
Rate of Return:      28%
Appraisal Report:   No. 2817-NIR
NIap: IBRD 14531
1/   Project costs are expressed net of taxes since Government has indicated
that it intends to exempt the project from import duties and identifiable
taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A SECOND MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Niger for the equivalent of US$16.7
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a second rural development
project in Maradi province. The International Fund for Agricultural Develop-
ment (IFAD) would provide a loan of US$12 million, and Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) a loan of US$7 million. The terms of IFAD and
CCCE loans are to be agreed between these organizations and the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum:  Niger" (RN 1109a-NIR) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 13, 1976. An economic mission
visited Niger in October 1978 and issued a draft report; the main findings of
the mission are incorporated in the following paragraphs. Annex I contains
country data. An economic updating mission revisited Niger in February 1980.
Background
3.        Until recently, Niger was a resource-poor country.  Consumption as
a proportion of GDP was high and sometimes in excess of domestic production.
Accordingly, gross domestic savings were very low or negative, and most
investment, modest at 12 percent of GDP, was financed by foreign savings.
This trend was reversed in recent years thanks to rapidly growing uranium
revenues: in 1978, uranium mining acounted for 13 percent of GDP, about 75
percent of total export earnings, and about one-third of government revenue.
As a result, gross domestic savings represented 9 percent of GDP in the
period 1975-78, while the country's resource gap decreased substantially
from 14 percent to less than 7 percent of GDP. The resource gap is estimated
to have further declined to about 4 percent of GDP in 1979. Despite the
encouraging trends, Niger, with a per capita GDP of about US$250 in 1978
remains among the 29 least developed countries of the United Nations.
4.        With uranium revenues already significant and expected to
increase substantially over the next couple of decades at least, Niger's
overall development prospects have improved. However, the restricted
possibility of mobilizing domestic savings was not, in the past, the only
or even the most critical development constraint. Despite the enhanced
availability of domestic financial resources, a number of formidable
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the Dosso
Agricultural Development Project (Report No. P-2659-NIR).



- 2 -
natural, economic, and human constraints to development still have to be
overcome or alleviated gradually so as to ensure self-sustained economic
growth in the long run. Thus although rainfed agriculture sustains about
80 percent of the population, four-fifths of the country is desert or
semi-desert and in the rest, soil fertility is low and probably declining;
rainfall is inadequate or irregular and costs of irrigation schemes are
unusually high; the country's landlocked position induces high transport
costs and sometimes serious delays in delivery of external trade goods;
with the primary school enrollment rate of 17 percent, the level of formal
education is amongst the lowest in Africa; acute shortage of qualified
personnel is felt at all levels in many fields, while many of the government
development institutions are still at an embryonic stage.
Economic Growth
5.        Real GDP grew at 3 percent per year during the last six-year
period (1972-78), while population grew at 2.7 percent. Between 1972 and
1975, real GDP recorded negative growth, mainly as a result of severe
drought-induced setbacks in agriculture and livestock, compounded by the
resulting recession in agro-industries. In the subsequent three years
(1976-78), however, the economy picked up considerably to achieve an annual
growth rate of over 9 percent.
6.        Niger's recent economic development has been characterized by a
notable structural change towards an accentuated dualistic growth: the
booming "enclave" uranium mining, and related activities such as transport
and construction, in contrast to modest growth in traditional sectors, in
particular in agriculture and agro-industry. The fastest growing sector
has been the mining sector which is dominated by uranium. Production of
uranium concentrates increased rapidly from some 400 to about 2,000 tons
between 1971 and 1978, while its export prices almost quintupled from
US$20/kg to US$98/kg. Present estimates indicate that uranium production
reached about 3,000 tons in 1979, providing over three-quarters of total
exports and about 40 percent of Government revenue.
Public Finance
7.        Over the last seven years, sound fiscal management, with the help
of rapidly rising revenues from uranium mining, has enabled the Government
to generate substantial current budgetary surplus. This amounted to about
CFAF 9.2 and 14.1 billion in FY76/77 and FY77/78 respectively. This
permitted rapid growth of capital expenditures in absolute as well as in
relative terms from CFAF 2.6 billion in FY75/76 (about 10 percent of total
budgetary expenditures) to CFAF 14 billion in FY77/78 (32 percent). As a
result, French budgetary grants, which averaged about CFAF 1.2 billion
annually over the period 1970-75, were discontinued, and more importantly,
the contribution of budgetary savings to total public investment increased
from 10 percent in FY70/71 to more than 25 percent in FY77/78. On the
other hand, the tax base has been undergoing significant changes in recent



- 3 -
years. First, total Government revenue now relies heavily upon uranium
mining, which accounted for about 30 percent of this revenue in FY77/78.
Second, in an attempt to ease the tax burden of low-income groups, a
number of measures were introduced: livestock head taxes were abolished in
FY74/75 following the 1973 drought; the head tax levied on the population
aged 14 years and over was completely abolished in FY77/78; and finally,
income taxes on monthly salaries below CFAF 15,000 were eliminated beginning
FY77/78. The foregone revenues from those sources are estimated at about
CFAF 3 billion.  Those fiscal measures reflect Government's increasing
concern with the problems of social equity and particularly the fate of the
rural poor.
Money, Inflation and Interest Rates
8.        Money supply increased relatively rapidly during 1976 and 1977.
Compared to 17 percent over 1972-75, the annual rate of monetary expansion was
high at 30 percent. The acceleration of money supply was attributed mostly to
massive increase in foreign assets, which at end December 1977, reached a
record level of CFAF 22.3 billion, equivalent to about five and one-half
months of that year's imports. During the first half of 1978, money continued
to grow, though at a lower rate than in the previous years. This time, the
main factor was the fast growing credit to the private sector. The bulk of
credit expansion in the first six months of 1978 resulted from credit demand
in the construction and transport sectors, in part because of the construction
of the Tahoua-Arlit road.
9.        In sharp contrast with the average 8 percent over the period 1972-75,
the annual rate of inflation in 1976 and 1977 was high at over 20 percent.
Due to the normal harvest in 1977/78, inflation levelled off somewhat in the
first half of 1978 at an estimated annual rate of 12 percent. Three major
factors contributing to recent inflation include the supply constraint in basic
commodities, especially in food, rising prices for imported goods, and rapid
monetary expansion.
10.       The rediscount rates by the Central Bank were raised in July 1975
to 8.0 percent for standard loans and to 5.5 percent for "priority" loans.
The commercial banks are allowed a spread of up to 5 percent, with a
maximum of 9.5 percent for priority sector loans such as Government,
housing, small-scale enterprises, and agricultural trade. These interest
rates are negative in real terms, when account is taken of inflation.
Balance of Payments
11.       In spite of the rapid increase in export earnings from uranium,
Niger's balance of payments continues to be characterized by a trade deficit:
the imports required for operating the economy as well as for new capital
formation including development of new uranium mining still exceed foreign
exchange earnings. This trade deficit was, however, more than compensated by
the inflow of foreign private and public capital so that the overall balance
of payments showed a substantial surplus until 1977. However, preliminary
estimates indicate an overall deficit of US$17 million in 1978: the low level
of buffer stocks necessitated imports of foodgrains worth some US$15 million,



- 4 -
while imports of capital goods were accelerated so as to speed up the imple-
mentation of development projects. Over the near to medium term, however,
Niger's trade balance should improve if only because of expected further
increases in uranium export earnings. The recovery of agricultural exports
(mainly groundnuts) is still uncertain.
Development Planning
12.       Government development objectives are broadly reflected in the
Interim Program, which proposed a program of public investments of CFAF
78.2 billion (US$320 million) for the 1976-78 period. The Program emphasized
infrastructure and power (46 percent of total investments), agriculture (33
percent) and development of human resources (18 percent). About one-fourth
of total investment was expected to be financed by domestic resources.
While the final outcome of the Interim Plan will not be known for sometime,
indications are that actual implementation will fall short of targets primar-
ily due to absorptive capacity constraints. A Five Year Plan is currently
under preparation. It is expected to further the general strategy outlined
under the Interim Plan.
Foreign Aid
13.       Between 1971 and 1977 Niger's total recorded net flow of resources
from DAC countries and multilateral agencies averaged about US$80 million
annually, of which 95 percent was on concessionary terms. The European
Development Fund (FED), France, Germany and Canada remain Niger's major aid
donors. In the last two years Arab oil-producing countries have expanded
their progams of lending to Niger.
14.       At the end of 1978, external public debt outstanding amounted to
US$394 million, including an undisbursed amount of US$200 million. A Canadian
loan in the amount of US$44 million was written off late 1977. Bilateral
loans, mostly from the People's Republic of China, France and the Federal
Republic of Germany, accounted for 47 percent of total debt in 1978, and IDA
credits, totalling US$64.6 million, represented 16 percent. Debt service
payment amounted to US$9.3 million, and the ratio of debt service to exports
of goods and non-factor services was about 3.2 percent in 1978, down from
5.2 percent in the previous year. Debt service payments were projected to go
up to US$14.9 million in 1979, while the debt service ratio would remain
virtually unchanged in view of expected increases in uranium exports.
Development Issues and Prospects
15.       Niger now stands at the threshold of a new era of economic develop-
ment. Tentative projections for 1985 indicate that over the period 1979-85
the economy would grow at an annual rate of between 6.5 percent and 4.5
percent in real terms depending on the upper or lower limit of price forecasts
for uranium. With the 1978 constant price for uranium prevailing throughout
the period, value added from uranium mining will increase at an annual rate of
18 percent, its exports earnings will go up to US$850 million in 1985 (com-
pared to US$200 million in 1978), and its contribution to Government revenues
will rise to about US$270 million in 1985 (compared to US$59 million in 1978).



-5-
However, caution appears warranted given a probable decline in uranium prices
in the next couple of years. Depressed uranium prices, if they materialize,
will result in significant cuts in exports earnings and government revenues.
16.       The major issue facing Niger is how to best use the increasing
financial revenues from its exhaustible uranium resources so as to lay a sound
basis for self-sustained economic growth in the future. In the short run, the
most serious and difficult economic management problems are to strengthen the
economy's limited absorptive capacity, and to assure balanced growth and
income distribution between rural and urban areas.
17.       The new circumstances of Niger raise important and difficult
issues centering essentially around the appropriate balance between public
and private investment and present consumption, especially the satisfaction
of basic needs of the lower income groups; the development of human resources;
and the management of financial reserves; and the appropriate exploitation
rate of uranium reserves over an extended period of time.
18.       While the long-term development potential of Niger thus appears
promising, though subject to sharp ups and downs due to uranium price fluctua-
tions, it is also a formidable challenge, both for the local authorities
and for the foreign governments and agencies that have traditionally provided
assistance to this country. For indeed, Niger remains a basically poor
country, much poorer in terms of standards of living of the people - in rural
as well as urban areas - than even the modest figure of US$250 per capita
income would suggest. The revenues from uranium will ease only one of the
many obstacles on the road to a broad based and sustainable growth. The
physical and human constraints are much more difficult to overcome. While the
government will, under the best circumstances, be in a position to contribute
more than in the past to the cost of development projects, external funds
should continue to be provided on concessionary terms in view of Niger's
extreme poverty.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN NIGER
19.       Beginning with an IDA credit for road construction in 1964, seventeen
IDA credits, including two supplementary credits, have so far been approved
for Niger totalling US$120.0 million. Past Bank Group lending was heavily
concentrated on transport, communications and rural development. Of the
seventeen projects approved to date, five aimed at expanding and upgrading
the domestic road network, one provided for improvement and extension of
existing facilities at Niamey international airport, and one for the instal-
lation of a more reliable telecommunications system.  The Association's
lending to date for the rural sector includes seven projects for drought
relief, rural development, agricultural development, forestry, irrigation and
livestock. Annex II contains a summary statement of these credits as of
March 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
20.       In keeping with Niger's overall development strategy, future Bank
Group lending will increasingly focus on efforts to ensure some degree of
food self-sufficiency and to improve the incomes and standard of living of



- 6 -
the rural population; to upgrade and expand physical infrastructure; to
develop alternative approaches to training and educational reform; and to
diversify the economic structure and expand modern sector employment. We
will also continue to advise Government on policy issues and options through
our economic and sector work.
21.       Bank Group lending in the agricultural sector supports Government's
generally sound strategy, namely regional productivity projects, gradual
development of the country's irrigation potential, provision of services
to pastoralists, and crop-livestock integration. Due to the severity of the
natural constraints and the present state of technical knowledge, agricultural
and livestock development in Niger will be slow and difficult. However,
experience with ongoing projects has demonstrated that some potential exists.
22.       For the two fiscal years 1980-81, IDA's lending in the rural
sector will consist of the Dosso agricultural development project, approved in
December 1979, and the proposed second phase of rural development for Maradi
Province. An education project to strengthen the Ministry of Education and
train extension agents and technicians in agriculture and livestock production
is being prepared. A second line of credit to the Banque de Developpement de
la Republique du Niger for small scale enterprise is also planned.
23.       In transport, we plan to place emphasis on assistance for the
construction of a network of secondary and access roads to support the Govern-
ment's agricultural program while continuing our support for maintenance of
the existing infrastructure; the recently approved feeder roads project will
mark a first step towards this objective. In education, our objectives are to
help the Government address the urgent problem of developing qualified high
and middle level manpower, particularly for agricultural development activi-
ties, and to achieve some expansion in enrollment, improvement in the quality
of existing institutions and development of non-formal education programs.
In addition, all future projects will also include, as needed, training,
technical assistance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening
institutions.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
24.       Share in GDP and Exports.  In 1970, the rural sector accounted
for about 60 percent of GDP and 80 percent of exports; now, the sector
accounts for about 45 percent of GDP and 25 percent of exports.  This dramatic
change reflects the rapid rise in uranium production but also slow development
of the rural sector. Recent crop production has been disappointing, particu-
larly groundnut production, which has declined from 200,000 tons (shelled) in
1965 to about 80,000 tons. This decline is attributable to unattractive
producer prices, drought, and subsequent difficulties in reconstituting seed
stocks. These difficulties were reinforced by repeated attacks of groundnut
diseases (aphids and rosette virus). Although farmers have switched into
grains and cowpeas, agriculture now accounts for less than 25 percent of GDP
and 10 percent of exports. Livestock production was disrupted by the 1973



- 7 -
drought which, according to Government estimates, reduced the national herd
from 4.2 million cattle to 2.2 million, and from 9 million smallstock to 7
million. Although herd reconstitution has begun, pre-drought cattle numbers
cannot be reached for another decade. Increases in prices of livestock
products have, however, largely offset the reduced volume of production;
livestock now accounts for 20 percent of GDP and 15 percent of exports.
25.       Food Balance.  Before 1973, Niger was self-sufficient in basic
foodstuffs in normal years. Over the three drought years 1973-75 however,
cereal imports averaged about 120,000 tons/year, equivalent to only about
10 percent of normal annual production but a much higher proportion, perhaps
50 percent, of marketed production. This disquieting experience drew in-
creased attention to 'cereal production - a hitherto neglected subsector - and
this attention has not waned despite the good harvests in 1976/77 and 1978/79.
Although some recent projections have suggested that there would likely be
an important millet and sorghum deficit in the years to come, present indica-
tions are that, provided rainfed farming productivity projects are implemented
as envisaged, Niger will continue to be about self-sufficient in cereals but
that production will be vulnerable to the vagaries of climate. In good years,
surpluses will be marketable in northern Nigeria; poor-year deficits will be
met by imports.
26.       Institutions.  The Ministry of Rural Development has main responsi-
bility for the rural sector. The Union Nigerienne de Credit et de Cooperation
(UNCC) is responsible for cooperative development, input supply, seasonal and
medium-term credit recovery and primary marketing, as well as the management
of some agricultural projects. In October 1978, the Government adopted new
statutes for the cooperative system, and it is expected that in the long term,
UNCC would disappear and cooperatives would become self-sufficient and ensure
their own supply of inputs, commercialization and extension work. It is
unlikely that these new statutes could be implemented quickly. The Caisse
Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA), established as an offshoot from UNCC,
is responsible for provision of funds for agricultural credit, review of
loan applications, and book-keeping for consolidated cooperatives' accounts.
The Office National des Amenagements Hydro-Agricoles (ONAHA) is responsible
for all irrigation projects: running, managing and maintaining the existing
schemes, preparing and regularly updating a survey of the irrigation projects,
and carrying out the extension work in liaison with UNCC. In secondary
marketing and processing of the main crops, parapublic companies have been set
up to compete with the private sector.
27.       Constraints and Challenges.  The climate imposes a severe limit on
the area where cultivation is possible, and even in that area, uncertain
rainfall makes farming a hazardous occupation. Soils are generally poor and
in many areas fertility is declining as fallow periods are being shortened,
reflecting increased pressure on land stemming from population growth (2.7 per-
cent per year). The decline in soil fertility may, in many areas, have reached
a point where it is now worthwhile to intensify land use. Water, though abun-
dant underground, is found in only a few valleys and irrigation is costly,



- 8 -
with investment costs above US$10,000/ha.   The distances to marketing
points, both internal and external, are enormous, putting Niger at a
disadvantage with competitors in export markets (over US$100/ton to ocean
port); yet the country's isolation fails to provide much inducement for
import substitution since natural protection against imports is offset by
diseconomies of scale caused by the limited size of the local market.
Despite the expansion in uranium production and related activities, productive
employment opportunities outside the rural sector are increasing by only a
few thousand per year, while the working age population increases by 40,000-
50,000 each year. Unless income opportunities can be expanded in the rural
sector, present dry-season migration to neighboring countries will increase
and perhaps become permanent.
28.       Oblectives and StrateRies.  Government has responded to these
constraints and challenges by selecting a two-fold objective: to exploit
the potential in rainfed crop and livestock production, and to increase the
area under controlled irrigation. In rainfed agriculture, the strategy is
to set up a regional "Productivity Project" in each province whereby improved
services of extension, input supply, credit and marketing would be made
available to smallholders. It is Government's intention that such projects
should cover the whole of the cultivable part of the country by 1980. By
1980 such projects, not always covering the whole of a province, were being
implemented in five of the six relevant provinces including the Maradi
Project, financed under Cr. 608-NIR (US$10.7 million). In controlled
irrigation, Government aims at a modest rate of development, of about 1,200
ha per year, while building the institutions that could later manage a more
rapid rate of implementation of new perimeters.
29.       Niger follows a policy of subsidization of agricultural inputs and
equipment, financing the cost of subsidies with revenues from its uranium
earnings. Subsidies represent a large proportion of costs; in the case of
fertilizer, as much as 60 percent. While this level of subsidy is acceptable
in the short run to facilitate introduction of improved cultivation techniques
in an environment surrounded by acute climatical risk, the Association has
advocated a continuing review of subsidies in order to avoid misallocation of
resources. For Government, however, the aspect of distributing part of
uranium revenues to the rural population is paramount.   Implementation of
this subsidization policy does not pose an unreasonable financial burden on
Government: expenditures on input subsidies represented 1.5 percent of the
capital budget in 1978, and are projected to reach at most 8 percent by
1985. The Association has obtained Government's agreement (under Credit
851-NIR) that subsidy policies will be reviewed periodically in order to
correct unexpected and undesirable side effects.
The First Maradi Rural Development
Project: Experience and Conclusions
30.       The first project (Credit 608-NIR) was designed to implement Govern-
ment's policy of making better use of the potential in both rainfed agricul-
ture and livestock production and introducing controlled irrigation in the
area. These objectives were to be reached over the three year project



- 9 -
period (1977-1979) through improvement of the extension service, input supply,
strengthening of cooperative institutions, expansion of training programs,
study of the optimum means to develop irrigation in the Goulbi de Maradi,
pilot irrigation development, feeder roads construction, fuel wood planta-
tions, and improvement of livestock services. Total project cost was esti-
mated at US$11.9 million, and the IDA Credit was US$10.7 million. The -
first two years of project implementation were devoted to establishing the
institutional foundation and the project management unit, and physical results
were modest. Actual field development progressed significantly during the
third year and brought encouraging results. Several appraisal targets have
been achieved, notably: (a) the cooperative development program was extended
over 812 Mutual Guarantee Groups; (b) the training center equipment was
improved and buildings were enlarged; (c) each of the 15 Local Cooperative
Associations (ALC), which were established one year ahead of schedule, was
equipped with a Rural Promotion Center (CPR), to train young farmers and their
spouses. Results at the CPRs are highly promising, both from a training and
from an agricultural standpoint; yields at the CPRs have almost doubled in two
years, and about 300 young farmers are being trained each year; (d) about 400
demonstration plots were set up by farmers each year and have confirmed the
high response to the proposed package of improved cultural methods; and (e)
the road, health, livestock, research and functional literacy components were
carried out successfully and have met the appraisal estimates. On the other
hand, the project, also showed some weaknesses:  (a) the extension service's
achievements fell short of appraisal targets and the extension training
program was too ambitious; (b) the study of the pilot irrigation project
was not completed in time to allow implementation of the planned 500 ha
irrigation scheme before the project's end on December 31, 1979; and (c) the
fuel wood plantations had to be reduced by 50 percent. In retrospect, the
first Maradi project must be considered as a successful pilot project which
has laid an effective institutional foundation, collected necessary basic
data for designing the development of the project area, trained field staff
and tested the proposed extension themes. It is not surprising that the
physical impact is still modest as it normally takes more than three years
for a project starting from scratch to achieve a notable impact at the farm
level. The encouraging results obtained during the third year, however, make
it possible to foresee a continuing momentum even in the absence of a follow-
up project, and an economic rate of return of about 16 percent.
31.       The project implementation period ended in December 1979, and it is
expected that the proposed second project will start in mid-1980. To ensure a
smooth transition between the two projects, Government has decided to extend
the first project by six months to June 1980, to permit the improvement of
training for the extension staff and starting the irrigation works. Financing
during this period will be ensured by a US$2.0 million EEC Special Action
Credit, recently approved on the same terms and conditions as the Maradi Rural
Development Credit, and by Government, who will finance the balance, estimated
at about CFAF 500 million (US$2.4 million).



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       In May 1978, the Government of Niger informed IDA and CCCE of its
interest in obtaining their assistance for financing a follow-up and an
extension of the ongoing Maradi Rural Development Project (Credit 608-NIR),
which was scheduled to be fully disbursed by the end of 1979. A feasibility
study for the follow-up project was financed under Credit 608-NIR, carried out
by consultants, SCET International (France), and submitted to Government in
April 1979. The appraisal mission and CCCE representatives visited Niger in
May 1979. Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington
from April 2 to 4, 1980 with a Nigerien delegation led by Dr. Annou Mahamane,
Minister of Planning. Annex III contains supplementary project data. The
Staff Appraisal Report No. 2817-NIR is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors.
Project Area
33.       The project area (see Map 14531) covers 15,944 km2 and four
of the six administrative districts of the Maradi province. It is limited to
the south by the border with Nigeria. The province's climate is Sahelian
and characterized by a dry season of about eight months. Annual rainfall at
the border with Nigeria is about 750 mm and declines to about 550 mm at the
northern limit of the project area. Interannual variations are high and
distribution is very irregular. There are no major surface water resources
available for irrigation in the province, except the seasonal river, the
Goulbi de Maradi; and outside the flood plain of the Goulbi, there is no
renewable groundwater source permitting significant irrigation development.
Consequently, agricultural production is primarily rainfed, with the inten-
sity and type of production closely governed by rainfall. The total popula-
tion of the project area is about 600,000 inhabitants with the majority of the
population living in small villages of about 300 inhabitants. The population
density within the project area is about 38 inhabitants per km2.
Project Objectives and Description
34.       The main objectives of the proposed project are to support Govern-
ment's policies of increasing rainfed agricultural production and extending
irrigation in order to improve farm incomes and the general welfare of the
rural population, specifically: (a) improve the incomes of 63,000 farmers,
increasing the productivity of their rainfed farming, by introducing intensive
cultivation practices through effective extension, credit and input supply;
(b) increase income security for 2,600 farmers through the development of the
irrigation component in the Goulbi de HIaradi prepared under Credit 608-NIR;
and (c) strengthen and improve the existing project organization. The project
would be implemented over five years, mid-1980-1985 and would include:
(a) expansion of improved cultural practices in rainfed farming
areas to increase production of cereals, cowpeas and ground-
nuts for the benefit of 63,000 farmers;
(b) a training program involving the "Training and Visit system"
for extension staff, and training for cooperative staff, young
farmers and blacksmiths;



- 11 -
(c) agricultural credit for the purchase of incremental inputs
and farm equipment;
(d) development of 740 ha of irrigation for the benefit of 2,600
farm families (bringing the total to 840 ha including the 100
ha developed under the Special Action Credit);
(e) construction and equipment of an irrigation center, construc-
tion of a new CPR and additional buildings for the extension
of 19 CPRs and the training center;
(f) applied agricultural research;
(g) a seed multiplication program;
(h) development of functional literacy and health programs, and
maintenance activities for the wood plantation and livestock
program financed under Credit 608-NIR;
(i) technical assistance to the PMU; and
(j) a project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
The project would also contribute to the financing of technical assistance
and equipment for a Central Technical Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to be
established at the ministry level in Niamey.
35.       Rainfed Farming.  The project would improve the agricultural
practices of approximately 63,000 smallholders, who would adopt the use of
improved and treated seed on about 87,000 ha. Of these 26,000 small-
holders would adopt the use of higher density plant populations and fertili-
zers on about 45,000 ha, and nearly 10 percent of them would be equipped with
animal-drawn equipment. The more advanced technology would involve better
seedbed preparation, the use of improved seeds, higher plant population,
appropriate fertilizer use, timely weeding and thinning for all crops, and
pest control on cowpeas. The total incremental area to be improved under the
project through the employment of the above mentioned techniques would reach
81,500 ha of cereals, 26,900 ha of groundnuts, and 6,000 ha of cowpeas. The
existing extension staff would continue to be trained using the "Training and
Visit system" adapted to local conditions and the extension structure would
be reorganized by the strengthening of supervision staff and the introduction
of more efficient working schedules.
36.       Training.  The project would benefit from the "Centre de Formation
des Jeunes Agriculteurs" (CFJA) and its 120 ha farm which was reorganized and
improved under Credit 608-NIR. All training activities would be managed by
the project's Training Division. In addition to training extension staff,
CFJA would continue training blacksmiths. The "Centres de Promotion Rurale"
(CPR) program would continue training young farmers and their wives in farming
practices, functional literacy, health, nutrition and small-farm animal
raising.



- 12 -
37.       Input Supply and Credit. The project would supply inputs and farm
equipment through the operation of a Farm Supplies Fund (FSF), administered
by CNCA on behalf of the project. The estimated input requirements over the
project life are: 8,300 tons of triple superphosphate; 4,500 tons of urea;
1.2 million fungicide packets; 118,000 liters of insecticides; and farm
equipment, including about 1,500 sprayers and 2,500 animal-drawn sets and
oxen. The Project Management Unit's (PMU) Cooperative Support Division would
secure inputs with funds from the FSF. Inputs and equipment would be dis-
tributed on credit in kind to farmers through their respective Mutual Guaran-
tee Groups (GMV). The UNCC would, on behalf of CNCA, organize the accounting
of the credits granted to the farmers by the GMV and credit repayments. CNCA
would assume credit risks to GMV with Government guaranty. Credit terms and
conditions would be consistent with those laid down by the Monetary Union of
West Africa. The rate for short-term agricultural credit for seasonal inputs
is currently 9.5 percent. Loans for farm equipment would be repayable over
four years, also at 9.5 percent a year. Since annual inflation for the last
three years was not less than 15 percent, and it is expected to remain at this
level in the near future, there is consequently an indirect subsidy element
in Government's rate policy for agricultural credit.
38.       Irrigation Development.  The project would develop the irrigation
component prepared under Credit 608-NIR and begun under the Special Action
Credit. An irrigated area of 740 ha (net) would be developed through:
drilling 54 wells; equipping tubewells with electric pumps; reinforcing the
existing electric line and extending it to cover the whole project area;
constructing the irrigation and drainage schemes and on-farm works; construct---
ing access roads to the tubewells as well as tracks for access to farms,
constructing a flood protection dike; and constructing offices, houses,
workshop and warehouses. The implementation of irrigated plots with irriga-
tion canals, drainage system and land levelling will take place over four
years. Except for the drillings, all works will be done on force account.
Test drillings have been made in the project area and information about the
water supply and drilling cost is satisfactory. Irrigated cultivation would
start in the first project year over 100 ha developed under the Special
Action Credit. The area would be progressively extended over a total of 840
ha, or about 2,600 farmers. Individual plots would have a gross area of 0.38
ha.   On the irrigated schemes, all farmers would adopt the full package of
improved cultural practices. A contract between Government and the farmers
(cahier des charges) will clearly define the conditions of land allocation
and obligations of both parties. A condition of effectiveness would be that
the contract documents (cahier des charges) for land allocations have been
approved by the Government (Section 7.01 (c), draft Credit Agreement.



- 13 -
39.       Applied Research.  The project's rainfed farming activities are
based on a few simple agricultural techniques which have proven successful
tmder the first project, but there is potential for more research to identify
further improvements. The project's applied research section would continue
to carry out its activities on rainfed farming systems, fertilizations,
seed varieties and plant protection. In addition, a new program for irrigated
crops would be conducted at the Tarna (INRAN) research station located within
the project area; the progam would cover selection of varieties adapted to
irrigation, fertilization, plant protection, water requirements and irrigation
timing. The project's applied research section would maintain research
plots at the CPRs and in farmers' fields according to programs designed with
the support of Tarna research station. Farming systems research on two types
of farms, one located on the plateau sandy soils and the other in the Goulbi
flood plain, would be carried out by the Tarna station to determine the
efficiency of improved farming techniques, the time devoted to each cultural
practice, and the economic impact of improved cultural methods.
40.       Seed Multiplication.  The project would also finance the costs of
the seed multiplication section. The Tarna research station would second to
the project the specialized staff to control the seed multiplication program
and to assess the seed quality of groundnuts, millet, sorghum and cowpeas.
Multiplication programs would be carried out at CPRs, the CFJA and at selected
multiplication centers in the project area.
41.       Health and Functional Literacy.   The health component begun under
the first project would be continued through (a) financing of refresher
courses every two years for first-aid volunteers and midwives posted in the
villages; (b) annual training of 80 first-aid volunteers and 80 midwives; and
(c) financing of supervision costs of village level staff.  The functional
literacy program, which under the first project reached some of the CFJA
trainees and all village level cooperative staff, would be extended from 247
to 375 village centers over the project life.
42.       Fuel Wood Plantations and Livestock.  In the light of past experi-
ence, promotion of tree plantations would be limited to the maintenance of the
existing village fuel wood plantations over about 120 ha, the creation
of five plantations at the new CPRs in the district of Guidan-Roumji, and the
production and distribution of trees to be planted around houses in the
villages. Since livestock development in the area is being supported princi-
pally by a separate Bank-financed project (Credit 885-NIR), this project would
limit its activities to the pilot promotion of milk production through financ-
ing the purchase of 250 cows on credit over five years.
43.       Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.  The uncertainty surrounding data
on farming in the project area creates a particular need for an effective
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. This unit would provide a dual service: to
the Project Manager as a data collection, analysis and advisory unit, and to
Government and other project financiers as a source of information for
effective project supervision and assessment of performance. The Unit would
first determine, in cooperation with project management, the key indicators
needed to effectively monitor project success, and determine the most cost-



- 14 -
effective and rapid means of collecting these data. Supervision missions will
give special attention to this Unit during the crucial first year after its
establishment. The project would also participate in financing the implementa-
tion of a Central Technical Monitoring and Evaluation Unit at the level of
the Ministry of Rural Development, in order to monitor, evaluate and coordi-
nate all agricultural project activities throughout the country (Section
4.03, draft Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation and Staffing
44.       Project activities would be planned and either executed or coordi-
nated by the Project Management Unit (PMU), already established under the
first project and headed by the Project General Manager, who would be respon-
sible to the Minister of Rural Development. All activities carried out by
PMU, with the exception of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, which would
be attached directly to the Project Manager's office, would be organized
into two departments: (i) Administrative, Commercial and Financial and (ii)
Technical. PMU's Irrigation and Civil Works Division would become a branch
of the Office National des Amenagements Hydroagricoles (ONAHA), and the
Project Manager would be the ONAHA representative for the Maradi province
(Section 4.03(c), draft Credit Agreement). PMU's Cooperative Support Division
would pursue its activities and provide additional training to the existing
organization in cooperation with UNCC. Other sub project activities, i.e.,
health, functional literacy, forestry and livestock would be carried out by
the respective government services operating at the provincial level, and the
use of funds would be monitored by the General Manager. Due to the shortage
of trained staff with the necessary experience, the proposed project would
include a substantial element of technical assistance. The project would
provide qualified and experienced specialists, including: the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit Chief, Training Division Chief, Works and Equipment Section
Chief and Chief Mechanic. In addition, the "Appui Cooperatif aux Projets
d'Aide Alimentaire en Zone Sahelienne" of the FAO/ILO (ACOPAM) would second
free of charge the Adviser to the Chief of the Cooperative Support Division,
and the French organization "Volontaires du Progres" would second the Black-
smith Trainer. To allow local staff to take advantage of the training offered
by the project, and to provide for sufficient technical and managerial con-
tinuity, Nigerien counterpart staff would be appointed.
45.       Consultants would be recruited to:  (a) assist the Irrigation and
Civil Works Division in implementing the irrigated scheme; (b) carry out a
groundwater study; (c) assist the Chief of the Applied Research Section in
setting up and implementing applied research programs and trials; and (d)
prepare a possible follow-up project. The consultants for the irrigation
development would be provided by SCET International (France), which carried
out the irrigation feasibility studies. Consultants for research would come
from the INRAN station at Tarna. The consultants for the groundwater and
follow-up project studies would be internationally recruited. The qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment of all consultants
would be satisfactory to IDA. (Section 4.02, draft Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
Cost Estimates and Financing
46.       Total project costs for the five-year implementation period are
estimated at CFAF 9.96 billion (US$47.5 million) with a foreign exchange
component of 44 percent. Government has indicated its intention to exempt the
project from all identifiable taxes and import duties. Base cost estimates
reflect mid-1980 prices. Project costs include physical contingencies of 14
percent for the irrigation component, 5 percent for vehicles, and 10 percent
for all other expenditures, except staff, since specifications and quantities
are clearly established. Expected price increases amount to 23 percent of
project base costs. Since the total number of project beneficiaries, for both
rainfed and irrigated production, is estimated at 63,000 farm families, the
cost of the project per family will amount to about US$735. The investment of
the irrigation component financed under the project (740 ha) is estimated at
US$8 million (without price increases). A part of investment (equipment and
on-farm works) has been absorbed, however, under the Special Action Credit;
including these costs, investment per ha without price increases amounts to
US$12,000 and cost per family to US$3,900; this is reasonable under West
African conditions. For the rainfed component the cost of project services
including incremental inputs is estimated, without price increases, at US$30.3
million or US$480 per farm family. The project would provide for 45 man-years
of technical assistance at an average unit cost of US$107,000, based on recent
experience in Niger, and 54 man-months of consultant services, with an average
base cost of US$10,300 per man-month, of which US$7,700 for fees, US$1,550 for
allowances and US$1,050 for international travel.
47.       The proposed IDA credit of US$16.7 million represents 35 percent of
total project costs. The International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) would provide a loan of US$12 million, and the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) a loan of US$7 million. The terms of IFAD and
CCCE loans are to be agreed between these organizations and Government.
Fulfillment of conditions preceding initial disbursement of IFAD and CCCE
loans would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit (Section 7.01(a)
of the draft Credit Agreement). Total external financing would be US$35.7
million or 75 percent of total costs, covering 100 percent of foreign exchange
costs and 56 percent of local costs. Government would contribute 25 percent
of total costs or US$11.8 million which would finance 11 percent of the
investment expenditures, 63 percent of the incremental agricultural credit
program, 46 percent of local staff; and 14 percent of the price contin-
gencies. CCCE would finance (a) 26 percent of the investment expenditures,
i.e., irrigation works for US$1.9 million (including US$0.8 million for
technical assistance) and vehicles and equipment for US$1.05 million; (b) 14
percent of the operating costs (US$2.75 million), including US$1.8 million for
expatriate staff; and (c) 14 percent of the provision for price increases
(US$1.3 million). The cost to be borne by the CCCE contribution includes the
total cost of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in Maradi (US$0.8 million).
IFAD would finance the balance of US$12 million pari passu with IDA. Benefi-
ciaries of the project would contribute US$1.5 million through: (a) cash
payments for agricultural equipment (US$0.05 million) and (b) water charges
to be paid for irrigated production (US$1.45 million).



- 16 -
Special Accounts
48.       To ensure the efficient and timely implementation of the project,
Government would establish two revolving funds to prefinance project activities
as follows: (i) a Farm Supplies Fund with the National Agricultural Credit
Bank (CNCA), with an opening line of credit of CFAF 200 million for prefinanc-
ing procurement of inputs. This Fund will be replenished thereafter with an
additional line of credit of CFAF 220 million in 1981, the subsidies to be
paid annually by Government on agricultural inputs, the proceeds of cash sales
of inputs and implements, repayments and charges on agricultural credit and
such additional funds provided by Government as and when necessary to cover
shortfalls due to defaults on loans and to price increases; (ii) project
operating costs will be financed through a Special Project Account with the
National Development Bank (BDRN) with an opening line of credit of CFAF 150
million. This account will be replenished quarterly to allow adequate
financing of the project over every three-month phase. Establishment of these
revolving funds with the initial lines of credit, would be a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA Credit (Section 7.01 (b), draft Credit Agreement).
Procurement
49.       Procurement of equipment, farm implements, inputs and tube well
drillings amounting to approximately US$14.3 million would be through
international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines in the
case of contracts over US$100,000, and through competitive bidding in
accordance with local procedures acceptable to IDA for contracts less than
US$100,000 (amounting to about US$1 million). For contracts of less than
US$30,000, competitive shopping would be employed (approximately US$0.7
million). Wells would be drilled and pumps acquired under existing contracts
let under the Special Action Credit and through international competitive
bidding procedures (approximately US$2.4 million). The electric power
line would be constructed by the national utility company (NIGELEC) under a
negotiated contract satisfactory to the Association (US$0.7 million). For
civil works (US$0.5 million for buildings), contracts would be through local
competitive bidding. The services of internationally recruited staff includ-
ing technical assistance for the irrigation component (estimated cost, US$8.1
million) would be obtained following procedures acceptable to IDA. Part of
the irrigation works (about US$3.4 million) would be done by force account.
Disbursement
50.       Disbursements of the IDA credit would be against import documenta-
tion and certified records of expenditures. For disbursements made against
certified records of expenditures (estimated at about US$3.0 million),
documentation would not be submitted for review by IDA, but for review by the
financial coordinator of IDA-financed agricultural projects, at the Ministry
of Rural Development in Niamey. Once certified by the coordinator, a full
copy of this documentation would be retained at his office for scrutiny by IDA
missions. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against the
following items: 58 percent of total expenditures for civil works/buildings



- 17 -
(US$0.3 million); 54 percent of total expenditures for irrigation works
(US$1.9 million); 45 percent of total expenditures for vehicles and equipment
(US$1.6 million); 25 percent of total expenditures for the incremental agri-
cultural credit program (US$1.5 million); 30 percent of total expenditures for
expatriate staff and technical assistance for the irrigation component (US$1.9
million); 39 percent of total expenditures for audits and surveys (US$0.6
million); 40 percent of total expenditures for PMU local staff and other
operating costs (US$6.2 million). An amount of up to US$0.7 million would be
allocated to finance equipment and expatriate staff for the Central Technical
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in Niamey and the operating cost of the
financial coordinator. An amount of US$2.0 million would be unallocated.
Accounting and Auditing
51.       The accounts of the project's first phase were satisfactorily kept
and audited, and the project's Administrative, Commercial and Financial
Department would continue to be responsible for keeping project accounts in
accordance with sound accounting practices. Audited balance sheets reflect-
ing the project's operational and financial position would be submitted to
IDA annually. The project accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and the audit report would be submitted to IDA within four
months of the closing date of the project financial year (Section 5.02,
draft Credit Agreement).
Benefits
52.       Building on the foundations laid by the first Maradi project, the
project would provide improved inputs to some 63,000 farm families, represent-
ing 90 percent of the rural population in the project area, and extension
advice to about 40 percent of these. Project activities in rainfed agriculture
would lead to incremental production of 22,800 tons of cereals; 12,400 tons of
groundnuts; and 4,400 tons of cowpeas; the economic value of this would amount
to US$11.7 million annually at full development. Most of the project benefits
would be reached by the end of the project period in 1984-1985. The project
will also provide additional income, and employment in the long dry season,
through the development of an irrigation scheme, which will benefit about
2,600 farm families in the densely populated Goulbi de Maradi area. Except
for the irrigation component, employment creation is not a primary objective
of the project, as labor supply in the rainy season is already short at
planting and weeding; however, the project would improve the intensity of
employment by raising the number of days of gainful employment. Economic
rates of return are as follows: rainfed farming (76 percent of project costs),
36 percent; irrigation (21 percent of project costs), 14 percent; total
project, 28 percent.
Prolect Risk
53.       Experience has shown that agricultural development in the Sahelian
Zone is inherently risky. However, for this project the adoption targets and



- 18 -
expected yield increases of the rainfed component are conservative; they are
based on the experlence of the first project and take into account both the
incidence of low rainfall years and of groundnut diseases; lags in adoption
may occur but tests show that the project is not too sensitive to this risk.
Likewise, the project is not unreasonably sensitive to steeper than anticipated
increases in local costs as a result of the impact of increasing uranium
revenues on the domestic price level.
54.       The irrigation component has limited risks on the cost side, as
the civil works equipment has been procured under the Special Action Credit
and contracts for well drilling and for pumps (the main capital cost com-
ponents) have been concluded under that Credit and would apply without change
to the follow-up contracts under the proposed project. However, the irrigation
component has substantial risks on the benefits side.  A shortfall might occur
if double-cropping targets are not fully achieved; if double cropping were
less than 30 percent (as opposed to the 50-80 percent envisaged), the rate of
return of the irrigation component would fall below 10 percent. Special
attention will be paid, therefore, during supervision to extension work, and
land holdings could be repossessed if farmers are unwilling to double crop
(Section 4.09, draft Credit Agreement).
55.       Due to the dominance of the rainfed component, there is no reason-
able expectation of the project falling below a 10 percent rate of return.
In any event, the risk of a lower rate of return of the irrigation component
must be accepted in the interest of pioneering irrigation development
based on under-ground water resources in this arid and resource-poor country.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Niger and the Association and the Recommendation of the committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness would be that (a) all conditions
precedent to initial disbursement of the CCCE and IFAD loans had been ful-
filled; (b) Government had established the two funds to prefinance project
activities with the lines of credit; and (c) the contract documents (cahier
des charges) for land allocation in the Goulbi de Maradi irrigated scheme had
been cleared and approved by Government.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 1, 1980






- 21 -
ANNEX I
TARLE 3A
NICK - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RzFNnICE GRoUPS (ADJUSTED AVIERGES
YIGER                                                /
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                             - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL          1267.0                                                SALE        SANE    NT  HIGHER
AGRICULTUL      180.0                               NOST ECET      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME      INCOM
1960 fl   1970 fl1 EST7IATE Lb     REGION /L  GRODP L    GROUP L
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                80.0       110.0    160.0           223.6      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     5.0        25.0    '35.0            86.7       88.9      251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULAATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       3.1         4.0      4.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 4.8        8.2       9.4           13.6       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      2.0         3.0       4.0           18.4       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    17.0       22.0      27.0           53.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       43.8        44.5      43.0           44.4       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                       53.0        52.6      52.2 f         52.7       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 3.2         2.9       4.8 A          2.8        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.5        2.7       2.7            2.6        2.4         2.7
URBAN                            4.5         6.3       5.5            5.8        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    52.4       52.3      52.2           46.9       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    28.4       25.7      25.5           20.6       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.1         3.5       3.5            3.1        2.9         3.2
FAMILY FLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..        .,            2.5       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           99.2       100.0      96.0           94.2       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  93.0       83.0      80.0           90.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRASS PER DAY)        74.0        72.0      69.0           55.2       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       ..        24.0 /R   23.1           17.1       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     ..          ..       ..              ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   35.9       38.5      38.5           43.7       45.8        53.3
1NFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                        200.0       162.0 LE                 138.4      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             *-        20.0      27.0           22.4       26.4        31.1
URBAN                             -.        37.0      36.0           66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                             ''        19.0      26.0            10.4      14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         1.0       3.0           23.9       16.1        37.5
URBAN                              ..       10.0      30.0           70.3       65.9        69.5
RURAL                             ..          ..       1.0            14.2       3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        71000.0 /b  58260.0  41060.0        21757.5   13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    7500.0 /h  7040.0   4970.0          3473.8    6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                          2200.0     1850.0   1200.0           645.4    1157.6        786.5
URBAN                              ..      350.0    160.0            172.9     183.3       278.4
RURAL                              ''     4250.0   3460.0           1292.6    1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED        10.4 li    34.7 /1     *             19.2      19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..            4.9        5.2
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..            5.0        4.8
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..            4.7        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER RO0M
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..              ..       1.8         2.3
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..      25.9        28.3
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..
RURAL                             ..          ..        ..              ..       8.7        10.3



- 22 -                                                 ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
NIGER - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
NIGER                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) X
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  5.0         14.0      17.0             52.1       62.9         75.8
FEMALE                 3.0         9.0       12.0            37.6        45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   0.3          1.0       2.0              8.0       14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 0.1         1.0        1.0             5.0         8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 4.0            3.0       2.2              7.2        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            43.0 /h      39.0      41.0             43.2       38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                          17.0        20.0       21.0             22.8       19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         5.0           ..        ..             20.3       36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.3          1.0       1.9              3.9        3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0        36.0         ..             40.1       31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..              2.2        2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   0.3          0.5       0.5              3.9        6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           0.2        ..              1.2        1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       770.0 /k   1900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    9.3          9.9      10.1             32.6       24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              97.0 /k     91.0         ..             73.3       60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  1.4         2.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..        ..             42.0       39.8         37.8
MALE                                 59.3         58.3      57.5             54.8       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                 ..           ..        ..             27.3       19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1          1.0        ..              1.2        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   23.0            ..        ..             25.7       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.0            ..        ..             55.1       45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.0            ..        ..              5.8        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0            ..        ..             14.5       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     133.0            108.8       88.5        155.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      63.0             74.1       71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            124.4      100.8        143.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      40.0             59.6       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      35.0             26.8       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      35.0             47.6       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1976.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income
($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /f  Age 15-59 and 60 years and over respectively;  /R  1972;  /h  1962;
/i  1964; Li  1966;  /k  Excludes labor force of Niamey city, nomad population and foreigners.
September 1978



-  23-                                                                        Annex I
DEFINITIO(NS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note-   Altho-gh the data are drawn fr   sources generally jodg.d the nest authoritative and reliable, it should also be noted that then may not be inter-
sationally ttparable beca-.e of the latk of standardised definitione and contepta u-d by different  -ountrine  in colle-ting the d.ta.  The dts ars, noenthelesa,
useful to dos-ribo orders of naguitode, iudicate trends, and uharactenrie  certain  ajur differences bhetween tonunetrs.
The adloeted grou..p  --ges for each indicator are populatioo-wsighted Se.-trir m            an, *cnloding the eetreme values of tho indicator nd the most
populated country in oath group.  Coverage of .o.ntries anong the indio-tore dapends or av-ilfbilitv of dets sod is not  ntifor.m    De to lack of data,
group averages for capital Surplus Oil Euporters and indicators of access to eater and etrets disposal, housing. inctee dietribution and poverty are
simple popolation-ueighted g.omotric near-  without the exclusion of notreme values
LAND AREA (thousnod  q. kn)                                                           Population per hospitsl bed - total, oeban,  and rur-l - Population (total,
Total - Total surisce ares comprising land area and inland  aters,                     urban, and r.ral) divided by their respective number of hnspital bade
Agricultural - Mont recent estimate of agriculturl area used temporarily               vilsble in public and private general and specislised hbapitel and ra-
or po-eanently fon crops, paeture., market and kitchen gardens or to                 habilitation centers,  hspitals are establishments peraently staffed by
lie follow.                                                                          at Is at one phynicias.  Etablibmhopte penviding principally custodial
oars are nut included. Rara1 bnspitala. howeer, include health and medi-
iNP fib CAI'IA (0X1) - GNP per .apits estiestes ot current mrket prices,                cal censtre not pernently steffed by a phyelcian (but by s mdical a-
Calculated by sane convrsion c.ethod as World Benk Atlas (1975-77 basis);            sisitst, nunse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient a.conadation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                           provide   limited range of medical tcilities
Admissions Per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to on discharges
ENERGY CONSUFMPTION PER CAPITA - A ons.  con-umption of cofaercll aneogy                from hospitals divided by the umbnr of bads.
(teal and lignite, petroleum, netersl gas and hydro-, neolear and gao-
thoosal olectricity) in kilegra-m  of coal equivalent per capit.                 HOUSING
Average  iS_ of household (nerse  per household) - total, urban, end rtal-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                         A household consists of a group of individuals  h. ahare living quarter
Total  population,  id-ye-r (millions) - As of Jely 1; if not available,               and their min meals   A boarde  or lodger may or may not bh  incledd in
overage of two sod-year  atiat; 1960, 1970, and 1977 date.                           the household for statistical parp.sss   SOtatistical definitiona of house-
Urban colotien (p rcent of total) - Ratio of urban to total pnpela-                    hold nary.
tion; different definitions of orbhn areas may effect tompsrsbility                A reose number of persons par room   total, urban  nd rural - Averag  num-
of data aeong  -ountrios.                                                            ber of persons per trom in all, urban, and  urel  oupi-d conventionel
P-oolation density                                                                     dwellings, respectively.  Deellinge seclude non-pertmnet streettres and
Per_so. bi. - Mid-ysar population por  quare kilcanter (100 hectares)                 .ooccOpied parts.
of total ores.                                                                     Access to  leotnicity (percent of dwellings) - total. erhan, and rural -
Per so. be. agriculture land - Compoted as above for agricultural land                Conventional Idellings with electricity in living quartre * percentage
only,                                                                                of total, orben, aed rora1 dwellings respectively.
Ponplotiun age strutore (percent) - Children (0-14 yearn), corking-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 yeart and over) as p-rcentages of mid-           EDUCATION
year population                                                                   Adjusted enroll met ratios
PopuIstion growth rate (percent) - tothl, and urban - Compeund annual                Priary school - total, and female - Total snd female enrollment of a11 agee
growth rotea of total and urban mid-yesr populations for 1950-60,                    at the primaty level as percentages nf respeotively primry school-age
1960-70, end 1970-75.                                                                popeltioons; normaly includes children  sged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rats (per thou..nd) - Annual live births per thoesend of                   different lengths of primary education; for countries with universa  ede-
mid-yor population; ten-year arithmetic aveneges ending in 1960 ond                  cation enrollment my exceed 100 percent since some popils are a     elew or
1970 and five-year awerage endine it  1975 for mast reonot estimte,                  sboe the officia1 echoel  ge.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                 Secondar  achoel - tota1, asd female - Computed as above; secondary  duc.-
year populstiou; ten-yenr  rithoaetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970               tien requires at least four years of approved primry inatructine; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimte.                        videe general vctational, or teacher training instrmeti.ss for pupils
Grtos  reprodution rare - Average nu-ber of daughteoar.   .e-en will besr              usually of 12 to 17 years of age; torrespend ence c.uses are generally
in her norl -eproductive period if ehe experien-es prenent age-                      excluded,
specific fertility raten; ....lly five-year aversges ending in 1960,               Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                      clude te-hni-al, industrial, or other progrems which operate independently
Pamily planniu - i ccs_ tor.. .nn.a1 (thousands) - Annual number of                    or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-co-troI de-iceo under auspices of nationol family              Pupil-teahber retis - primary, and  Yecendar   -          Total students enrolled in
planning program,                                                                    primary and  econdary leve1s divided by numbes of teachers in the terre-
Panily pIanning-users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                       spending levels
married  -omen of child-bearing age (15-44 pears) who  use birth-control          Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devi-e to all Xartiod women in same age group.                                          percentage of total edult population aged 15 ye.s.  and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                  CONSUMIPTION
Ielse of fued production per topita (1970-100) - Index somber of per                Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger c-rs comprise mater cots
capito annel production of oll  food coemoditie.                                   seating lees than eight persons; excludes tsebelsces, hearses and military
Pe iato oupply of nior       percent of  eurene)-Compuind fro                    vehitle..
energy equi-nlent of net food supplies ouiluble it country per cts                Radio rPceiters (Per thousand population) - All types of receivere fur radio
per dy.  Availablo aupplirs comprise dtudstic production, imports lees             broadcost- to general public per thousand of populotion; secludes unlicensd
exports, and changen in stock.  Net sopplies euclude animal feed, seeds,           receiv-rs it countries ond in yeare when registration of radio sete was in
quantitinooused in food processing, and losers in dietribution.  Re-               effect; data for recent years way not be compareble sInce most ceuntri.s
qoi-nntsw vre esItinat2d by PhO bhsed on phyeiological needs for nor-              obolished licensing.
no1 activity and health coneidering environmental temperature, body               TV receivers (pet thousand pepulation) - TV receivers for broad.ast to generd
aeights, age aud sex distributions of population, and ellowing 10 per-               public per thousand population; .cludes unlicensed TV receivers incoun-
ceot for caste et household level                                                    trios and in yearn when registrotice cf TV sets was in effect
Per capita supply of Protein (grame pet day) - Protein content of per               Noespap,r circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the anerage nincule-
capita net supply of food per doy   Net supply of food is defined an                 tin of "daily genera1 interest newspaper", defined en a periodical publi-
ubove.  Reqoiremette for all countries established by USDA provide for               cation devoted priartily to recording general news   It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                be  daily" if it appears at leant four tines a B ee.k
of anima Iand poles  protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.         Cinea annual attendants psr cepit, per veer - Eased on the numbec of tickets
These otandaeds are -lovr than three of 75 grano of total protein and                sold during the year, including admissiess to drinn-inc inemas and mobile
23 grane of animal protein as an  -nerge for the vorld, proposed by                  units.
PAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein aupply from onimal and pulae  - Protein supply of food          RhPLOYIIENT
derived from animals and polses in grams per day.                                 Total labor fore (thousands) - feonomically active persons, including armed
Child (egos 1-4) mortalitY rate (per thoue.nd) - Annual deaths per thoon-              forces end oneeployId hbt excluding housecivee, utudents, etc.  Defii-
and io age group 1-4 years, to children in thin age group.                           tions in various countries are not comprable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                               Agriculture (percent) - Lebor force in farming, forertry, hunting and fishing
Life enpectancy at birth (yearn) - Average number of years of life                     as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages rnding in 1960, 1970,              Indutry (peret) - Lanbo  forte in mining, coestrecton, meoufactuning and
end 1975.                                                                            eletricity, cerad  s  as pecentea ofrttllhe   ec.-
Inftn mortality rats (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infante under                Participation rate (percent) - total   le, end female - Total, male, and
use ye.. of age per thousand live i   rbis.                                          female labor forte an percentagee of their respective populations.
A..cce  to safe cuter (percent of population) - total, urban, and roral -              These are ILO's odjoated p-rticipation rates reflecting sge-sex
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                 structure of the populatigyr  sod long tine trend.
sairfe ctr supply (includes treated eurface waters or _utreated but               Ecoonoic dependencv ratio -}Ratio of population undec 11 and 65 and over tn
unrontsLinat2d water such s that from protected boreholes, eprings,                  the labor forte in age group of 15-64 yeats.
and eanitary cells) as percenge   of the ir    P  tine populations.
Io on urban urea a public fountain at eta"tdpust lotated not mote                INCOME DISTRIBPTION
than 200 mets ft  a house may be considered an being within rea-                  Percenttag  of erivate income (both in csbh and kind) receined by richesi 5
sutuable access of that house.   It  ortal ar.s reasonable n.c..s could              percent, richest 2lpercent, pnosest 20 percent, and poorest h0 percent
imply that the h.u.e.ife or members of the household do not have to                  of h-heold.
spend a dinproportiounta part of the day in fetching the family's
ater needs.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to ecureta disposal (percent of poPulation) - totel  urban, end              intimted absolute poverty income leve1  (US$ pet capIta) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urbat, and rural) served by eucrete                   Absolote ponerty isnme level ie that income level below which e minimal
dispoeal as percenitge- of their respective populations.   ECrreta                   nutritiocolly adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is net
dispoa.l may include the collection and disposal, with or without                    affordable.
treatment, of human oucreta and w_et_-water by w-ter-boron  systems               istimated relative povertc incoe level (US$ peer capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and  imilar installations.                                 Relative pu-erty income level is that incoMe level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by eumber of practicing                   per capita personal income of the tountry.
physicians qualified from a medical -chool at univreriy level                     Estinated population belm poverty income level (percent) - urban and eruol -
Population pc( nursinc person - Ppoplation divided by number of                        Percent of populatitn (urhan and rural) cit are eith-r "Dbsolute poor" or
practicing male and female gradouate nurses, practical  aurses, and                   "relativr purr' whichever in greater.
assiotant norrses.
Econosit and Suciat Data Division
focureic Anolysis and Projections Deportment



- 24 _
COiY - DATA - NIGh
a? flx CAPITA IN 1976: 15$250
MMS WATtIZAL PRODUCT TS 1978                 n                                 ANI!UAL LATE Of G204W  M. C0W3TAXT 1972 PRIdCE)
USS Mltle           J,                                       \§1972 * 76
OF at M4arket Prices                     1,282           lo0 .                                         3.8
Cross DomEstic Invtetment                  525            25.4
arose National Sevings                     154            u2.0
Current Account SBalance                  - J4            .4.0
1xports Of GoOde, ~'FS                     288            2.                                           53
beports of Geods, NY$                      370            26.9 8.2
pUTrPir. LABloR FORCE AND
PRODLATtVITY IN 1978
Value Added  F        Costs5
rieuts*ue              154       42.5
Ijdustry2l              7.7 S0
iervices-              305        134
- -A&L               1T7 L12O
U<NT FINANCE
-wral Ce gorr.sent
.JAF billicL.)                  S of CDP
IZL4/75   -1977/78            1975       1978
Current lRvenues                22.4        44.5             13.4        15.6
of which uronirzn revenue    ( 2. 5)      (13.1)              1.5)       4.6)
gr-rrenr E    rPend!tures      _17,5        30.4             10.5       10.6
curret  Jalance                  4.9        14.1   .            9         5.0
Copitel t!penditure              1.9        14.1              1.1         5.0
iternl Aetat.                                0                1.8
Overall Dalanez                ; .                             1  
NOI4tY. CREDIT AND PIE 
M1971     1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      !978U_
(CEAF billion at end- f year)
Money and Quest Money                    12.1      12.9      15.5      20.3      22.3      29.2       37.6      46.5
Bank credit to Public Sector             -2.3      -3.5      -3.4      -7.2    -11.5    -12. 3      -16.4    -10.2
Bnk credit to Private Sector              9.7      10.7      12.5      21.0      28.5      28.6      32.7       38.7
PERCVNTAGES OR INDEX NUIEERE
Ceneral Price Index (1970 = Iro)        104.2    114.4    127,8    132.1    144.1    178.1    219.2    250.0
Annusl percentage changed tn:
General Price Index                                 9.3       11. 7      3.4       9.1     23.6       23.0      11.4
74nk credit to Pubitc Sectos
lank credit to Private Sect.,                      10.3      16.6       68.0     35.7        0.4      14.3      18.4
^ Staff estimates.
Not available.
Not applicable.
I/ Mostly uranium rinta,
2/  Including Coerrnment ;nd d:ttes and taxes on imports.
3/ As of May, 197d.
February 5, 1979



-25 -
COi,rY DATA - Nlt7*  t
ThA! PAY?MTS AWD CAPITAL FUlVS
(in milltins of cucrrent UWS)
sIJLACI OF IPAYM!S                         19750      1978 A          MnCRiN?DISE ZXOPMT9   (Annual Awure: 1975-70)
Exports of Goods, NFS                     167.6      288.2                              mS Million
ipnrrc of ( oodt.  NFS                    226 5       369.6
itesourge rap (deficit * -)               -58.7       -61             Livestock           29.2                   16.3
uranium            117.1                   67.4
!nter,St Paveents (not)                   -10.7       -15.0           Croundauts           8.2                    4.7
r'orksrs  Re' ittanet                     -18.7       -25.0           All                 19.3                    1
ocher Factor Payments (net)                 3.0                        TOTAL              173.                  100.0
et Trarsfers                              77.1        36.3
Balance on Current Accounts               * 8 0   -   85T2 EmRNAL DIST, DEC.(flS  31. 1976
Direct Foreign investmnt (rnt)             15.8        38 4           Public Debt, inel. guaranteed             284.0
Not MLT Sorrowings                        17.0   -   30.0            Won-Guarante.d Privat  Debt
Total outstanding and                     U5I1
Disbursements                      (16 8)       (  )              disbursed
Repayment                          ( 1.8)        ( )
other  _t_J       _-i9.s                                              DEMT SERVICE RATIO  FOR 1976
chanze in Reserves (end year)               5.0      -16.8            Public Debt, tncl  guaranteed
Foretin Reserves (end year)                51.4       67.6            Non-Guaranteetd Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstnding and disbursed             5.4.
; of imports                          12.8       15.0            ISED/IDA LENDING. Decmber 31. 1978
RAT or EXCHANGCE                                                      OUtsbading and disbursed                   34.6
Undisbursed                               43.3
1971    USSI.oo: CFAF 277 03                                       OutstandLns ircl undLsbuic d               n.90
?577.   US$100    CFAF 252.21
i973:   US$l oo    CFAF 222.70
1974:   US$1o00    CFAF 740 50
1975:   US$1 00 *  CFAF 214.32
1976:   US$100 =  CFAF 245.00
1977:   US$1.00    CFAF 245 00
1978:   US$1.00 z CFAP 220.00
!r-tlu'hng errors and ommissions.
2  Recorded exports only.
Staff estimates,
not svylabte.
not epplicable.
I brusry 5,1979



- 26 -                  ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as at March 31, 1980)
Credit                                                               US$ million
Number   Year   Borrower              Purpose                Amount (less cancellation). /I
IDA      Undisbursed
Seven credits fully disbursed                                 20.0
441     1973   Republic of Niger   Drought Relief             2.0          0.2
608     1975   Republic of Niger   Maradi Rural
Development          10.7          1.4
612     1976   Republic of Niger   Niger Third Highway   15.6              4.3
634     1976   Republic of Niger   Telecommunications
Project               5.2          3.1
800     1978   Republic of Niger   Forestry Project           4.5          2.9
809     1978   Republic of Niger   Employment Creation
Project               5.0          3.9
851     1978   Republic of Niger   Irrigation                15.0        12.8
885     1979   Republic of Niger   Livestock                 12.0         11.8
886     1979   Republic of Niger   Feeder Roads              10.0          9.8
967 /2  1979   Republic of Niger   Dosso Agricultural
Development          20.0         20.0
Total                                              120.0         70.2
of which has been repaid3/                         0.2
Total now outstanding and held by IDA              119.8
Total undisbursed                                                70.2
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/2   Approved but not yet signed.
/3   As of February 29, 1980.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at January 31, 1980)
Nil.



- 27 -                       ANNEX II
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 441 - Drought Relief Project, US$2.0 Million; Credit of
December 7, 1973; Effectiveness Date: May 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit aimed at helping the population in drought-affected areas
to reestablish their self-sufficiency through redevelopment and improvement of
their farms and herds. The project, which comprised seven sub-projects
(training scheme, construction of rural warehouses, spot repairs of a feeder
road, engineering studies of an irrigation project, construction of erosion
control facilities, protection of gum tree and construction and operation of
calf feeding units is completed, but the final disbursement request has not
yet been submitted.
Credit 608 - Maradi Rural Development Project; US$10.7 Million;
Credit of February 6, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
October 8, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
This project includes provision of production packages to farmers
in 15 Associations Locales de Cooperatives; strengthening of cooperative in-
stitutions, expansion of training programs, study of optimum means to develop
the irrigation potential of the Goulbi de Maradi, construction of 80 km
of roads, planting of 500 ha of fuelwood plantations and improvement of
livestock services. The feeder roads program has been fully carried out. The
small fuelwood plantation component was terminated after two years in view
of the apparent lack of motivation among the farmers. The remaining project
components are progressing satisfactorily but the irrigation component was
scaled down to only 110 ha due to initial delays in carrying out the feasibility
study.
Credit 612 - Third Highway Project; US$15.6 Million; Credit of March 5,
1976; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project includes: (a) a four-year program of periodic mainten-
ance, including procurement of equipment and training of specialized public
work staff, (b) construction and improvement of the Zinder-Nigerian border
road (113 km) and of the Maradi-Nigerian border road (40 km) and (c) consulting
services for supervision of road construction and a survey of the domestic
11   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report problems
which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
construction industry. Construction of the Maradi-Nigerian border road was
completed ahead of schedule and the Zinder-Nigerian border road is expected to
be completed shortly. After a successful training program and equipment
procurement, the four field brigades started maintenance work last April. The
study of the domestic construction industry is currently underway.
Credit 634 - Telecommunications Project; US$5.2 Million; Credit of
June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: November 9, 1976;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
This project includes installation of automatic switching equipment
with cable and subscriber distribution networks; provision of trunk switching
equipment, three VHF links and one HF radio link, overhead line and carrier
equipment; civil works, miscellaneous equipment, vehicles and tools and
services of engineering and financial consultants. Procurement is completed
and the main contracts have been approved by the Association. The project is
experiencing a 24 percent cost overrun that the Government has agreed to
finance on its own budgetary resources. Progress has been made in carrying
out the institution building component of the project.
Credit 800 - Forestry Project; US$4.5 million; Credit of June 7, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: February 7, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
This project will assist Government in its efforts to establish 400
ha of pilot irrigated plantations and 700 ha of pilot rainfed tree plantations;
improve the rural forestry activities of the Forestry Department; finance a
training program in extension services; provide assistance to research and
a workshop maintenance unit.  The Project MIanagement Unit created within the
Forestry Department to assist with coordinating and monitoring project activi-
ties is now fully operational and project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily.  About 300 ha of rainfed tree plantations were established
this year, and preliminary work was carried out for the establishment of about
200 ha of irrigated tree plantations during the next campaign.
Credit 809 - Industrial and Artisan Sector Employment Creation Project;
US$5.0 million; Credit of June 7, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 7, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This project aims at assisting Government in the promotion of more
labor intensive employment creation in Niger's industrial and artisan sectors
while strengthening the sector's institutional infrastructure, by providing
a line of credit, training and technical assistance to BDRN, including the
development of a bank management training program of the Ecole Nationale
d'Administration, financial and technical assistance for creation of OPEN, the
new agency created under the project to provide technical assistance and
training for local enterpreneurs, and by assisting the Artisans Center to



- 29 -                   ANNEX II
improve the productivity and employment of artisans affiliated with the
Center. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily except for the
Artisan Center component which has experienced considerable start-up delays.
Credit 851 - Irrigation Project; US$15.0 Million; Credit of February 15,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims to assist the Government in expanding cereal and
vegetable production along the Niger River through development of a 1,550 ha
polder; providing agricultural development services on neighbouring irrigation
schemes (1,215 ha) and dryland farming plots (9,000 ha); and in creating the
necessary institutional framework for the implementation of its irrigation
development program through establishment of a national agency (ONAHA) which
would integrate and strengthen the activities of construction and management
of the irrigation schemes. The project will also finance the preparation of a
feasibility study for a nearby polder, as well as the services of a financial
coordinator to be attached to the Ministry of Rural Development to assist in
accounting and financial management of the various IDA-financed agricultural
projects in Niger. Due to initial delays in credit signing and in the award
of contracts for equipment and engineering services, construction of the
irrigation works started in March 1980. Project activities in 1979 included
construction of buildings and recruitment and training of staff.
Credit 885 - Livestock Project; US$12.0 Million; Credit of April 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
A combination of health and productivity services will be available
to herd owners in the pastoral and cropping zones. An innovative approach
will be taken by establishing Associations of Pastoralists, legally recognized
cooperative entities based on existing social groups. Members of these
Associations will have access to a greater range of health services, new
forms of credit for backgrounding and breeding, improvements to existing
wells and extension of watering points and advice on range management.
In addition to the goals of increased livestock productivity and greater
participation of herders in management of animals, water and pasture re-
sources, the project will provide assistance to the Livestock Department to
develop competence in delivery of productivity services. The project manage-
ment unit (PMU) has been established and project implementation is just
getting underway.



- 30 -                   ANNEX II
Credit 886 - Feeder Road Project; US$10 Million; Credit of April 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 10, 1979: Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project will improve 1,000 km of feeder roads which support
Government's agricultural program and create an appropriate structure for the
execution of comprehensive feeder road programs. The project will finance
highway construction equipment and spare parts; labor, materials and supplies
for the improvement program; offices for and technical assistance to the newly
created Feeder Road Technical Section to aid in implementing and monitoring
the improvement program and in training technicians, mechanics, equipment
operators and training officers. Final draft tender and contract documents
for equipment procurement and proposals for technical assistance have been
reviewed by the Association. Notification of contracts is expected shortly
and equipment delivery is scheduled to be completed by mid-1980.
Dosso Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 Million;
This Credit has not yet been signed. The project comprises a
five-year program intended to increase farm incomes and improve the welfare
and standard of living of the rural population of Dosso Province and to build
up an extension service through: the introduction of improved farming practices
for rainfed cereals, cowpeas and groundnuts; the improvement of vaccination
coverage, delivery of drugs and feed supplements and animal husbandry practices
for beef cattle and work oxen; the construction of small-scale irrigation
schemes for 200 ha of bottomlands; the introduction of a Training and Visit
extension system; the strengthening of the farm input and implement supply
system; and applied research. Training, extension, input supply and credit
services would be made accessible to about 80,000 farm families, of whom
25,000 are expected to adopt the recommended improved practices.



- 31 -                  ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 1 year
(b) Agency that prepared the project: Consultants/PMU
(c) Date of the first presentation to the Bank: May 1978
Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project:
September 12, 1978
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: May 14, 1979
(e) Completion of Negotiations: April 4, 1980
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Government would make satisfactory and timely arrangements con-
cerning the replenishment of the Farm Supplies Fund and the Special
Project Account (para 48);
(b) farmers on the Maradi irrigation scheme would pay a recovery
charge at a level mutually acceptable to Government and IDA
and their level would be reviewed from time to time; Government
would compensate for any shortfall in farmers' water charges
(para. 38);
(c) irrigated land could be repossessed if farmers do not comply
with their financial obligations or cropping rules (para 54);
(d) the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of all
consultants would be satisfactory to IDA (para 45);
(e) project accounts would be audited by independent auditors
(para 51);
(f)  as conditions of effectiveness:
(i) all conditions precedent to initial disbursement of the CCCE
and IFAD loans had been fulfilled (para 47);



- 32 -                  ANNEX III
(ii)  Government had established the two funds to prefinance
project activities with the lines of credit (para. 48);
(iii)  the contract documents (cahier des charges) for land alloca-
tion in the Goulbi de Maradi irrigated scheme had been approved
by the Government (para 38).



NIGER
350S/- 350                                                                                                 SECOND MARADI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
DEUXIEME PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
D DAKORO                                         |           r_'                                                   DE MARADI
Project Area/Zone du Projet
450/> Project area/Zone cj prolet I
e/ %  ///// Extension under MaradiIl Proiect/
0//Extension du projet MaradilL
Prpsdirvigated area /
500                                                                      j                                                                       \ (     I Future zone irriouee
C CPR.-_phase I
, kKornoka /                                                                              __                      *gurofane  A    C PR. - phase I
Isohyets in millimeters /
o~>  \   |  MAYAHI                                                 -    400 lsohyetesen millmetres
J           Province capital/Prefecture 
oD    Administrative district center/
7 0 0  AG E RIA\SAdministrative district boundary
yjirguD  MraM       rcp°  Vnrsm                  HLimite d'arrondissement
-   S,5~~~~~             ----Province boundary/ Limitededepartement
600                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T $AU  ,International boundary/
Fronti&re internationale
'c,Z~ Rivers/Rivibres ou Goulbi
ou ou ou                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Major roads/ Routes principales
ALGERIA /A[GERIE       .
650       Atchi  ko                                                       tm          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
D irotawo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                   ~          i
MADAROUNE       ~~Angot Roum1i i~doi                                             WorlB.nks~ tiff -1-olysel for 
I                                                                                                                                                                               N1 IonissaK          /I
lua                                               .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ierp or to which ii,s aiiaohad  Arohonomp
0  700       Gobi                                  '50                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The d--s-,na,n usd and sheA,.~ho-P
W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d otpy on   ihe par of the                                                                             oerpeet pm IscCeCHAD 
m                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Wofid Bash anddin ffl,.tao any  PE%~  NIMEY FldIT A
rognan on heealo, ao 1 ~of,._1  VCOLTA' ~    ka              \,
L..  Maratca                                                      any ierr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_,ir or any -nd-r-ten  HAUTEi                  ia
CO                            5~~~~~~~~~~~ SMo,a   0                                                                       noons_111 of-sobhondariso  VOLTA ~~IN I G E R I A      CAMERLb.-



