CREDIT NUMBER 1026 NIR
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Maradi Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1980
1


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1026 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 6           , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER (hereinaf er called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Asso-
ciation).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for
a loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to nine million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 9,700,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Fund;
(C) the Fund has appointed the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement, and the Association has accepted
such appointment;
(D) the Borrower has applied to the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (hereinafter called CCCE) for a loan
(hereinafter called the CCCE Loan) in an aggregate principal
amount of 7,000,000 dollars equivalent to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and CCCE; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Fund Loan Account" means the loan account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement;
(b) "Special Drawing Right" and "SDR" mean a special drawing
right allocated by the International Monetary Fund, as valued from
time to time by the International Monetary Fund;
(c) "PMU" means the Project Management Unit established
under the Development Credit Agreement (Maradi Rural Development
Project), dated February 6, 1976, between Republic of Niger and
the Association;
(d) "Central Technical Monitoring and Evaluation Unit" means
the unit established by the Borrower for purposes of coordinating
the monitoring of agricultural projects in Niger;
(e) "Project Area" means the D6partement de Maradi;
(f) "ONAHA" means Office Nationale des Am6nagements Hydro-
Agricoles of the Borrower; and
(g) "CFAF" means "Franc de la Communante Financiere
Africaine", the currency unit of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to sixteen million seven hundred thousand dollars
($16,700,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article III of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1990, and ending
January 15, 2030, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on January 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and the
Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the Credit and the amount of
the Fund Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Fund Loan Account, respectively, in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Fund Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, as such allocation may be modified from time to time
pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agree-
ment between the Borrower, the Association and the Fund.


﻿Section 3.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account for
expenditures made (or, if the Association and the Fund shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Association a written application in such form
and containing such statements and agreements as the Association
or the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal,
with the necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall,
except as the Borrower,    Association and the Fund shall other-
wise agree, be made prouptly in relation to expenditures for
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as
the Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether
before or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Association or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
the amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds
from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account and the
funds to be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be
apportioned by the Association between the Credit and the Fund
Loan as indicated in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, or as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Association and the Fund.
Section 3.05. When the Association shall have approved
an application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account


﻿- 5 -
to or on the order of the Borrower in accordance
with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement; and
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received
an application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan
Account in the aggregate amount specified in
such notice, that it has approved payment of the
portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in the amount set forth in such notice, and
that the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund Loan
Account in the amount set forth in such notice is
eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Credit or
the Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled,
applications by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be
deemed to be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied
for from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account only, and the
provisions of this Article III except for Section 3.04 hereof
shall continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount
credited or to be credited to such Account shall have been
withdrawn or cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
the Association may, on behalf and for the account of the Fund,
enter into special commitments to pay amounts, out of'the proceeds
of the Fund Loan, to third parties in respect of the cost of goods
required by the Project, subject to the provisions of this Agree-
ment concerning the allocation and apportionment of the proceeds
of the Fund Loan. The Fund has advised the Association that any
such special commitment shall, once it has been notified to the
Fund, constitute an obligation on the part of the Fund to pay,
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of
the Fund Loan, the amount to be disbursed out of the proceeds of
the Fund Loan in fulfillment of such special commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate agricultural, engineering, administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall establish and maintain:
(i) in the National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA)
a Fund for Farmer's Supplies (Maradi) with an
opening line of credit of CFAF200 million and shall
replenish such Fund by deposits therein of: (A) a
further line of credit of CFAF220 million prior to
September 30, 1981; (B) the amount required as
subsidies on agricultural inputs for the current
season, prior to September 30 of each year begin-
ning in 1982; (C) the proceeds from cash purchases
of inputs and implements, down payments on pur-
chases made on medium-term credits and repayments
and charges on medium-term loans, beginning on
September 30, 1980; and (D) amounts equal to any
shortfalls due to defaults on such loans and to
increases in the prices of non-incremental inputs;
and
(ii) a Special Project Account (Maradi) in the Develop-
ment Bank of the Republic of Niger at Niamey with
an initial deposit of CFAF150 million for the
purpose of financing expenditures required for the
Project, such Account to be replenisied each
quarter by the Borrower on the basis of a budget
made by the Director of the Project, in order to
have at all times sufficient funds to meet the
financing requirements of the Project.
Section 4.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part B of the Project and the research program included in
Part F of the Project, and PMU and the Central Technical Monitor-
ing and Evaluation Unit of the Borrower to carry out their func-
tions, the Borrower shall employ consultants and experts whose


﻿- 7 -
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.03. For purposes of carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall:
(a) (i) maintain PMU with such functions, responsibilities
and organization as are set for.th in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
and (ii) provide PMU with such' funds, facilities, services and
other resources as required for the purpose.
(b) The qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of employment of persons assigned to the positions listed below
shall be satisfactory to the Association:
PMU: General Manager, Advisor to the General Manager,
Director of the Administrative, Commercial and Financial
Department, Technical Director, Agriculture Division
Chief, Advisor to the Agriculture Division Chief,
Cooperative Support Division Chief, Irrigation and Civil
Works Division Chief, Works and Equipment Section Chief
and Training Division Chief.
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit under Part J of the Project:
Chief of the Unit.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) ensure that all local staff
employed by PMU is retained for such periods of time as shall be
required for purposes of the Project; and (ii) appoint the General
Manager of PMU as the representative of ONAHA in the Project Area.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not later than December 31,
1980, appoint an assistant responsible for agricultural extension
to each of the administrative district chiefs in the Project
Area.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿- 8 -
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Fund, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and work and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's and
the Fund's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association and the Fund a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the Derformance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-


﻿-9-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association prior to allocating more than 0.38 hectares of land
irrigated under Part B of the Project to any one family unit.
Section 4.09. (a) The Borrower shall allocate land irrigated
under Part B of the Project only to farmers which undertake to
cultivate it in accordance with appropriate practices, including
double cropping, and to pay the fee referred to in Section 5.03 of
this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall deprive any farmer who fails to
fulfill the undertaking referred to in paragraph (a) above from
his or her rights in respect of land irrigated under the Projecc.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause PMU to maintain or cause to be maintained separate
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, including
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditures;
(b) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditures and shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts
referred to in Sections 4.01 and 5.01 of this Agreement for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association and the
Fund as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of


﻿- 10 -
such accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in
Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure have been used to make payments for
goods received, or works or services performed, and that such
goods, works and services were eligible for financing under this
Agreement and were used in the carrying out of the Prcject;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) In furtherance of the Borrower's policy
to recover from beneficiaries the recurrent costs of operation
and maintenance and the capital costs of the irrigation works to
be carried out under the Project to the fullest extent possible
and desirable, taking into account the need to provide incentives
for farmers to participate in the Project, to encourage efficient
use of water, and to use any surpluses for similar projects or for
other bigh-priority purposes, to relate the level of the fee
levied on beneficiaries to their ability to pay and relative
income levels, the Borrower shall ensure that ONAHA charge and
collect from farmers or farmer groups which cultivate land irri-
gated under the Project a per-hectare fee for the use of water.
Such fee shall be set not later than October 31, 1980, at a level
satisfactory to the Association and the Fund.
(b) Thereafter, the Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association from time to time on the level of such water charges,
taking into account the criteria set forth in paragraph (a)
of the Section as well as changing price levels, and to the extent
that the conclusions of said review shall so indicate, shall
revise the level of such water charges appropriately.
(c) The Borrower shall maintain separate accounting for
the costs recovered from water users through such water charges,
and shall furnish to the Bank annual reports thereon.
(d) The Borrower shall provide such amounts, in addition to
those recovered from the water users in accordance with the
provisions of this Section, as shall be required to operate


﻿- 11 -
and maintain, in accordance with appropriate agricultural and
engineering practices, the irrigation facilities included in
the Project.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall: (a) set producer prices for
agricultural products at a level sufficient to induce farmers to
produce for the market; (b) review those prices annually; and
(c) announce such prices each year at such time as shall be
appropriate.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PMU or for the suspension of its operations; and
(b) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan (including the Fund Loan
and the CCCE Loan) made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agree-
ment providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and


﻿- 12 -
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) or (b) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Association has been notified by the Fund and the
CCCE that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Fund Loan and initial disbursement of the CCCE Loan pursuant to
the Fund Loan Agreement and the CCCE Loan Agreement (other than
the effectiveness of this Agreement), respectively, have been duly
fulfilled;
(b) the Borrower has arranged for the lines of credit
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(c) the Borrower has approved the "cahier de charges" to be
used for purposes of land allocation.
Section 7.02. The date            qt9 /91?  is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Sect n 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
5.03 and 5.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date 30 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 7.04. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have
come into force and effect and the Development Credit Agreement
shall have failed to come into force and effect by the date


﻿- 13 -
specified in Section 7.02 of this Agreement or a later date
established by the Association for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions, or (ii) the entire principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges which
shall have accrued on the Credit shall have been paid before the
Fund Loan Agreement shall have terminated, then, notwithstanding
the provisions of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 of the General Condi-
tions, the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be, or
to remain, in force and effect but only to the extent required for
the purpose of implementing the Fund Loan Agreement and of orderly
settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties there-
under, subject to such modifications of the Development Credit
Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the Association
and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.05. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have terminated, or (ii) the Association shall notify
the Borrower that its appointment as Cooperating Institution under
the Fund Loan Agreement has terminated, the provisions of this
Agreement shall, to the extent that they relate to the Fund Loan,
forthwith terminate.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
B. P. 862
Niamey
Niger
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIPLAN                            5230 CND
Niamey


﻿- 14 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Amjyc Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:                               % of
Expenditures
Amount of the Amount of the       to be
Credit Allocated   Fund Loan      Financed
(Expressed      Allocated         by
in Dollar    (Expressed in Associ-
Category           Equivalent) SDR Equivalent) ation      Fund
(1) Civil works            300,000        180,000     58%     42%
under Part H
of the Project
(2) Irrigation works     1,900,000      1,120,000     40%     30%
under Part B
of the Project
(3) Vehicles and         1,600,000        950,000     40%     27%
equipment
(4) Agricultural         1,500,000        880,000     22%     15%
credit
(5) Expatriate
experts, con-
sulting
services for
Part B of the
Project
(a) Adminis-         1,900,000                  100%
trative,
commercial
and finan-
cial Director,
Assistant to
said Director,
Agronomist,
and Mechanic


﻿- 16 -
% of
Expenditures
Amount of the Amount of the       to be
Credit Allocated   Fund Loan      Financed
(Expressed      Allocated         by
in Dollar    (Expressed in Associ-
Category           Equivalent) SDR Equivalent) ation    Fund
(b) Irrigation
engineer and
Chief of
Civil Works                  1,150,000
(6) Audit, surveys          600,000      350,000     36%     28%
(7) Local staff of        6,200,000    3,650,000     35%     26%
PMU and other
Project opera-
ting costs
(8) Goods and ser-          700,000      420,000     58%      42%
vices for Central
Technical Monitor-
ing and Evalu-
ation Unit
(9) Unallocated           2,000,000    1,000,000
TOTAL   16,700,000    9,700,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policies of the Association and the Fund that no
proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufac-
ture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of
any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policies of the Association and the Fund.


﻿- 17 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement or the date of
the Fund Loan Agreement, whichever shall be the later.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph I above, and without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Association
has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit or the Fund
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan which
are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
provided, however, that no such reallocation of proceeds of the
Fund Loan shall be made from Category 5 (b) to Category 5 (a); and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
5.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan and the Association may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement
or of the Fund under the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and/or the Fund Loan
as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or the Fund
Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to improve farming practices in
the Project Area and increase agricultural production.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Improvement of farming practices related to the culti-
vation of cereals, cowpeas and groundnuts.
Part B:   Irrigation development of about 740 hectares in the
Goulbi de Maradi.
Part C:   A program of credit to farmers in the Project Area to
finance farm equipment and inputs on the following terms
and conditions:
Annual
Item                    Terms of Loan            Interest
1.   Farm Equipment                 4 years                9.5%
2.   Groundnut seeds                1 year                25.0%
3.   Other inputs                   1 year                 9.5%
Part D:   Training of extension agents and provision of extension
services to farmers in the Project Area.
Part E:   Extension of the existing "functional literacy program"
of the Borrower to about 130 additional training centers
in the Project Area.
Part F:   A seed multiplication program and a program of applied
agricultural research on experimental fields.
Part G:   A health program including training of first-aid volun-
teers and midwives.
Part H:   Construction and equipping of an irrigation center, a
training center and a new "centre de promotion rurale",
and extension of about 20 "centres de promotion
rurale".


﻿- 19 -
Part I:  Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation unit
to monitor the progress of the preceding parts of
the Project and to evaluate the economic and social
benefits derived from them.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
,delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in t.he evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the p;.ocurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 21 -
Niger may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Niger if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Niger equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group


﻿- 22 -
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference fnr Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Categories (1) and (2) of the table set
forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be
procured in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of
this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or
group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Wells may be drilled and pumps may be acquired under existing
contracts let under the Special Action Credit Agreement, dated
March 21, 1980, between the Borrower and the Association as
Administrator of the Special Action Account established with funds
contributed by the Member States of the European Economic Commu-
nity, provided, however, that the Borrower has established to the
satisfaction of the Association that such goods and services will
be provided at a reasonable price.


﻿- 23 -
2.   Contracts for goods, other than pumps, estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent and $30,000 equivalent or more and
contracts for civil works other than the irrigation works referred
to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Part may be procured through
competitive bidding on the basis of local procurement procedures
in effect on the date of this Agreement.
3.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $30,000
equivalent may be procured through negotiated purchase after
solicitation of quotations from at least three suppliers.
4.    Irrigation works, other than drillinag of wells, may be
carried out on force account, provided, however, that the cost of
the works to be so carried out does not exceed in the aggregate
the equivalent of $3,400,000.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 24 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan
Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Functions, Responsibilities and Organization
of PMU
1.   PMU shall have such functions and responsibilities as shall
be necessary for the proper execution and supervision of the
Project, including:
(a) planning and programming of the Project execution
schedule and the monitoring thereof to ensure that works are on
schedule and in compliance with established performance standards;
(b) coordination with all ministries, authorities, and
agencies of the Borrower in respect of the execution of all
aspects of the Project and liaison with the Association; and
(c) ensuring that funds are available in the Special Project
Account referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the Development
Credit Agreement as required to meet payments for expenditures
incurred in connection with the Project.
2.   PMU shall have two Departments, whose heads shall report
to the Project Manager:
(a) Administrative and Financial Department, responsible for
project accounting, staff administration, financial arrangements
for agricultural credit and for crop marketing, and project
evaluation.
(b) Technical Department, responsible for planning and
implementing either directly or indirectly all physical aspects
of the Project. The Technical Department shall comprise four
divisions: Agriculture, Cooperative Support, Irrigation and
Civil Works, and Training.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the          -day of
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


