Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11209-RU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RUSSIA
EMPLOYMENT SERVICES AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
OCTOBER 28, 1992
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:11209-RU         Type:  (SAR)
Title:   EMPLOYMENT SERVICES AND SOCIAL
Author: T. KING
Ext.:33006 Room:H3-164 Dept.:EC3HR
Country Department III
Human Resources Development Division
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Ruble (Rb)
EXCHANGE RATE: RUBLES PER S
Pysgid            Official Rate             Auction/MIFCE Rate
(Average)                    (Average)
1987              0.6328                           n.a.
1988              0.6080                           n.a.
1989              0.6274                           8.9
1990              0.5856                          18.8
1991              0.5819                          59.0
(End of Period)          (End of Period)
Dec.        1991               0.5571                          169.2
Jan.        1992                n.a.                           230.0
FeL.        1992                n.a.                           139.0
March       1992                n.a.                           160.3
April       1992                n.a.                           143.6
May         1992                n.a.                           113.0
June        1992                n.a.                           144.0
July        1992                n.a.                           161.2
August      1992                n.a.                           205.0
September   1992                n.a.                           254.5
October 6   1992                n.a.                           342.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
International System of Units (SI, "Metric System")
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ERT         -     Early Response Team
FES         -     Federal Employment Service
MIS         -      Management Information System
MSP         -      Ministry of Social Protection
OECD        -     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCU         -      Project Coordinating Unit
PPF         -      Project Preparation Facility
RFEC        -      Russian Federation Employment Committee
SWO         -      Social Welfare Offices
TCP         -      Technical Cooperation Program
RUSSIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFICL USE ONLY
VIA
RuePOn=N  SURVcKs AnD SCIAL            LaOTCTO  PRGINO
Table pf oantents
1I.  S3CTOURbL BACSCROCWD .................................................... 2
the Labor Market....................................
DUployment Services .................................... ........... 4
Traing.. .....................* ............................... 6
Pensions and Other Cash Benefits ....................................8
Bank's Role and Strategy .................................. ....     10
Donor Coordination..........................10
III. L38QOs VROQM IZZEuT UZP3RIUCS ........................................11
Umploymnt services in Industrial Countries........................1.
Lessons from Bank Bxperlence. ......................a................ 14
Project tationale and Objective. ....................... ..   ........... 15
Rationale for Bank Financing -................. ......... -.... -15
Project objctives   ..... ... ........................             15
Project Bvolution .....a................. ... ....... . .    .. ... *i.S
Project Description ................................................17
Detail  leatured.                ..................   .       -.18
troject Coordination unit ......................................  lS
Staff Training Unit ..............................................l-
Dellvery of Unemployment Benefits and DEployment   rves ........ 18
Labor Market Policies and Management systems ..................... *19
zram  &ervLces ..................
Labor Market Information Syste    ............................. 21
This report iL based on the findLigs of an appraisal misiLon that
visited Russia September 6-15, 1992 comprLsLng Timothy KLng (MisLion
Leader), Lynette Wardle (Operations Officer), Robert Hall and Anna
Stasxewlcz (Consultants) and was assisted by Tanya Proskuryakova and
Dditry Petrin of the BDank" Moscow Office. in addition to the staff and
conoultants mentioned above who participated ln appraisal, Donna
udgerton and Rifky Taher (Consultants) assisted ia preparation LsLsions.
go Dahlborg (Training SpecialLt) participated ln the preappraLial
mssLion from May 19-June 15. JonL Elugman (roung Professional) and
Ealinl SrLnLvas (Operations Asesitant) havo contributed to the writing
of this Report. Msesrs. Russell Cheetham and Robert Liebenthal aro the
responsLble Director and Division Chief, respectLvely.
This document has a rised ds budoa and may be used by d t onl la tho pefo,ma,
of tahr offici dues. Its contlets my ot otpwte be dioseo withot WOW Bank authol. on.



2. oont    cont-d.I
Bmpoymnk r llag......................  2
Minitry of Social Protection (UN) ................................ 23
Design of a Hodern Social Securlty Systm .......................... 23
V.   PRo3C? C0Sm, IWaNCi        NA M        AunYms r   aND  lFMUTiATZO24..............24
cost of the Profect................................ 24
sumarry of ProJect Co6ts........................................24
Bal. of Cost  stimt  ............................................2S
Custam DutLes and  axes ...........................................2S
Contingency al.o.    . .............................         ........ .25
Foroign  xahang  Cmonent ............25
Project t?iancing ..................................................26
Management and rmpl.ementation.. ................0026
aanagement .......                                              . 26
Management Functions..  2.....................2
Status of Prparto .............................................. 32
L       .bur.At. .............o                                       33
Accounts and Audits .............
VI?. A3333!S8 AND ...........  ..............34
Aemental  t    ............3
V22* AORNMOM" MM ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      CO.., 0.0..3



1ii
1.   Employment by sector and gender
2.   Education levlsi of workforce
3.   Description of the System of Unemployment and Related Benefits
(including revenues and expenditures of the Employmnt Fund)
4.   Detailed Cost Bstimates
5.   Computerization
6.   Project Coordination Unit
7.   Project OperatiOns schedule ande      ark
1.   tederal Employment Service
2.    Ministry of social Protection
3.   Staffing Requirements
Documents id Dat2a Avalable in the Project File
1.   Action Program - Employment Policies and Programs, May 1992,
Robert . Hall
2.   St.ngthening the Bmploymnt Comitte   n         t System,
May 1992, Willim S. Leisb
3.   Design of a Mass Rdundancy Respons System, May 1992, WilLiam Sswitt
4.   Computerization Assesment and Recosmendations for the Employmnt
Serices of the Russian Federation, May 1992, Donna Edgerton
5.   Russias  The System of Cash Denefits, May 1992, Nicholas arr
6.   Traiing Reconnaissance Report, June 1992, Richard Johanson,
Claudio de loura Castro, Milan Rubr
7.   Public Services Employment Programs - design for a stand-by public
works for peiods of massive unemployment, May 1992, Robert T. H311.



Uorrosuer        Russia
ftletciaziAs:   fedeal   a loymet Servie
iniLtry of Social Protection
mounts           U8$70.0 milLion
T!em             Repayment in flfteen years, including five years of grace,
at tho SRD standard variable interest rate.
ftojwt
Objectives      The p$ricLpal objective of this project, which is to be
imlemented between February 1993 and October 1994, is to
quicLkly devlop the capacity of the 13S to process the
antLicpated upsurge of benefit claims frm the rapaly
growing numbers of unemployed following economic
restructurLng and privatization. It is also aimid at
developing the capacity of the 88 to cay out active
employment policies, including retraLning, at assisting the
351 deelop improve penions administrationg to refom the
penLon system and comence the design of a odern social
security system. Indee ths project will provide the
framework for successor projects in the areas of employment
servies, social protection and training.
Project
Description    The loan would finance equpment and technical assistances
(a) to rapldly improve the lu's capaclty to regiter and
pay befits to the uneployed, and to introduce comuter
systems, policies, standards and related softwarel
(b) to bulld the longer term capacLty of the FU and the
(i) for the Ms  to design programs,  enablng
mechanism  and monitorLag methods for the   pvemt
of labor mrket polLcies and nt system  to
sengthen progam services, including model
emloymnt offiees and progrum  to del wLth mess lay-
offs, and standby public srvice/end or temporary
employment pograms to develop systms for monitoring
labor markets and poverty levlap to strength      '
efforts to organize job training for the unemployed in
the new skills require  by a markt oomy and in the
preparation of curricula and training materials 



Y
(11) for the 51Ps to improve the opeational
*ffectiveness of the NIP and, as an important
prepaatory pha" to a plannd  1994 project, develop
and test the autoation of cash benfit delivery oa a
Pilot baSIS in selcted regions and in the degign of
benofits prgram    and
(iLL) to lnltiate the design of a modern social
security schme and the devlopmet of a master plan
for the differet agencLes involved wlth erWloyment
servLces, cash beneflts and social assistance,
together with rec nation  for phasing and a
detaLled design for the next phase.
basLk.           lly providin  the necessary equipment ad training and by
strengtheni  the managemnt of the INS, the project would
help create the capacity to provide timely support for the
anticipated Lare numbers of unmployed in the short-tem,
and in the longer-tem would assist devlopmnt of a modern
wide range of labor arket pollcies supporting the
restructuring of RusSia's economy, and a computerized socLal
securLty sstem.
3JE,3       S    The main riLk is that the project timetable, whleh is
ambitious, will be delayed. This risk is partially
mitigated by the trong      t_ t of the nS and W5P
personnel involved, and by the politLcal and socLal pessure
on the employment srvices that may be expected as
unemployment grows. Xn any case, the urgency of the need
does not permLt a more relaxed timetable. A second risk is
that organizational changs may weaken effetiveness or
reduce receptivlty to foreLgn advice. This rilk is
acceptable since the 13 has recently been glven an
independent mandate and clear authorLty to accelerate
decision-makng. a third rlsk is that local authoritLes
will proceed so ind pndently of the central 1W   d M1P
that the adoption of the project's im ro vmnts w11 not
proceed. Thio risk will be addressd by emphaslsing local
consltation (efforts to date to involve local offices
initiated throb  bilatea donors and continued nr the
111 ar alredy paying dividends) and staff traLning, which
Will be             under the project. Ioreover, local
offices will be requird to meet criterLa, still to be
determined, to be eligible to rceive comput es ad
equLpment.



vl
Estim:atedl Project Costs:
-------U$ milln---
1.  Project Coordination Unlt        15.0        1.4         16.4
2.  Staff Training                    9.6        0.5         10.1
3.    s  iteft and Service Delivery   5.5       38.8         44e3
4.  Labor Market Management                      0.7          0.7
S.  Pr0ram Services                              6.1          6.1
6.  Labor Market InformatLon  ystye              1.7          1.7
7.  laployment Traing                 1.7        8.8         10.5
8.  Long-texm Design                             0.6          0.6
9.   Salaries                        33.3                    33.3
10. 11P Pilot                                    7.1          7.1
11. Refinancing PF?                              1.5          1.S
Total Base Cost             LI7    L.2            1J32.1
PbysLcal Contingencoss       -          -            -
Price Contingencies         0.1        0.6          0.7
Total Project cost                    ALA         133,
linancina PRMS
--    nUS$  mlilln -o--
Government                     63.0         -          63.0
Bank                            2.2       67.8         70.0
Total FLancing Plan               Ala        AA0
-stimted DiAburpenats
Da  i    Year
M93       FY94      FY95
--us$ Millions--
AnnaI                               20.0      40.0      10.0
CUulative                           20.0      60.0      70.0
ZEon_cic Rate of Rleturns Not Applicable
1Mw                      NIWD  24013



EMPOYIMETSVCS ANED SOTLPUM?CflN  RO9
z. I ncrTozm
1.1  The Soviet economic system was extremely inefficient.  Both the
structure of output and techniques of production reflected a great waste of
resources. Nevertheles the economy exhibited one positive features most of
the population shared a sense of economic security and lnvoluntary
unemployment was virtually unknown. Most individuals had security both of
income and of access to basic social services.
1.2  The adjustment process has crated high inflation and serious anxiety
for millions of people. Many cammoditLe now cost twenty to thirty times what
they did two years ago, and real incomes have fallen sharply. Although
involuntary unemployment has not yet appeared on a significant scale, many
people are no longer receiving their contractual salaries, and must be very
worried indeed about th41r future. Fear of unemployment is widespread.
Without some reassurance that adjustment and reform are not going to involve
personal destitution, public support for present economlc policies may
disappear.
1.3 Economic adjustment will require a temporary decline in output that
leads to some relative deprivation and personal hardshLp problem.. it is
widely agreed that governments have a responsibility to provide some sort of
"safety net" to prevent the emergence of the most serious problems of poverty.
Many individuals -- pensioner., the unemployed, and others - need an
effective system of cash benefits which will provide a minimal real income.
Essential social services have to be preserved, particularly in cities. While
the need for social protection in RuLsia is particularly acute at the present
t,ime, the provision of a safety net entails more than anti-poverty measures
alone. systems of social security and other public services that are
compatible with efficient employment and production systems have become
integral and permanent features of all OE¢D economies. Such system normally
include: (a) income support measures for those who would othrwise have less
than acceptable living standards, based on eligLbillty for various cash
benefite  (b) proactiv employment services; and (c) unlversal access to basLc
health and education servicso. All of thes  measures are justified ln term
of efficiency as well as equity. A cash benefit system and adequate public
social services can liberate labor maket policies from the need to embody
socLal distributional as well as effLelncy objectives. Proactive employment
services can lead to a more effLcient reallocation of labor and a reduction of
time lost ln unemployment and, by the Lnclusion of retraining, can help to
improve the human capital stock on which living standards largely depend. A
striLt distinction between a welfare-oriented safety net *nd effLeLency-
enhancing labor market reform and human resource development li therefor
largely artificial.
1.4 In the next few years, the World Bank expects.to provide Russia wlth
both financial and technical assistance for the development of social



2
protection in a modern market economy. The present project is the first of a
series planned to establish a modern social security system, to reform and to
improve health services, and to support national training efforts to upgrade
the human capital base. The proposed project concentrates on the weakest link
ln the safety net, the employment servLces, which must be bullt up almost from
scratch as quLckly as possible. The project will improve the ablilty of the
employment servlies to provide job seekers wlth accurate job placement and
counselLng, opportunities for further trainlng and, as a last resort, public
service employment. The project supports the development of curricula and
materials that are needed for training of the unemployed, but whlch can be of
broad applicatLon for the general modornizatLon of traLning. ThLi is an
essential preparatory phase for a stand-alone training project which is
envisaged to follow in FY94. Employment servLies need also to be buttressed
by complementary programs for social protectLon, and the project contains
assLitance for the design of the other elements of a social security system.
II.  S ORAL BACXGROND
The Labor Market
2.1  The population of worklng age, deflned ln Russia as men aged 15 to 59
and women aged 15 to 54, was 84.2 million in 1991. In 1989, the most recent
year for which the relevant data are available, the participation rate for
women of workLng age was B4.3%, which is very high by international standards,
and 87.6% for men. At the same time 23.7% of men aged over 60 and 16% of
women aged over 55 worked, reflectLng a system in which those above retirement
age have been encouraged to continue in the work force without loss of
pension. Russia is hlghly urbanized, with 74% of the population resident ln
cities, although urbanization has bean slowing downs ln 1989 only 8 rural
dietricts recorded posLtive net mlgration; in 1990 there were 20; and
reportedly in 1992 there has been on average a positive net mlgration to rural
areas. There exist serious constraints to labor market mobility, and
therefore to effectively functioning labor markets. Geographical mobility of
labor has been hampered by the scarcity of housing and the absence of anything
that resembles a normal housing market, and also by a system of residence
permits that has deterred internal migration. in recent years other
dimensions of structural change have also been slow. In 1990, 30.9% of
employment was provided by industry, 13.1% by agrLculture, and 56% in
construction, transport and services (Annex 1). These proportions had changed
very little during the preceding decade. The state-owned sector is by far the
largest employer, accounting for 77% of total mploymaent (56.8 mllion people
worked at state enterprlses in 1991), although its share has been falling (in
1985 the stato provided 90% of employment).
2.2 The labor force is characterized by high levels of education, wlth few
dLfferences by gender. Literacy rates are close to 100% and rates of
secondary school completion exceed those ln the U.S. About 15% of adults have
hLgher educatLon, and fewer than 30% have less than a complete secondary
schooling (Annex 2). As noted below, Russia also possesses a very large
network of training instLtutLons at all levels. Combined wlth the hlgh levels
of investment that characterLsed the Soviet economy, the potential for high



3
levels of labor productivity and livlng standards was considerable.
Inefficiencies in the labor market were one reason why this was not achieved.
2.3   In the Soviet labor market, as in others, most individuals were free to
seek new employment in response to alternative opportunities, although until
very recently unemployment was in principle illegal. Turnover rates were not
very different from those in OZCD economies -- higher than Japan or France,
but well below those in the US. But turnover very often did not reflect the
movement of labor to more productive uses. Managers had little leeway to
manipulate wages or bonuses in response to a need to attract labor, and had
little incentive to reduce staff even if this could be done without reducing
output. MaintaLning extra labor was deslrable to be able to maximize gross
output at peak plan p.riode; if labor was released, it mlght not be feasible
to attract lt again. Once the wage fund was reduced, lt might not readily be
restored. S rational managers hoarded labor, overstafflng was widespread,
and an excess demand for labor was pervasive. A ocmmon estimate li that
overstaffLng averaged 20-25% of the labor force in state enterprises.
Attempts at enterprlse reform during the eerestrgik perlod (1986-90),
deslgned to make enterprlses more cost-conscious and profit-minded, failed to
induce indivldual managers to pursue the search for cost-saving methods to the
extent of laying off workers.
2.4   The amount of redundant labor must have Lncreased dramatlcally recently,
slnce the decline ln industrial output of nearly 20% sLnce 1990 has not been
matched by any signlflcant release of labor. An increase in the level of
unemployment is therefore not only inevitable but necestary if economlc reform
is to achleve its objective of systemic and structural change. While this
fact is well understood by leading Government economists, there is also an
understandable polLtical reluctance to see large-scale unemployment emerge,
and recent credlt infusions have kept unprofitable enterprises from closing or
even reducing staffs. ThLs may also partly reflect an appreciation of how
ill-equLpped Russia is to cope with large-scale unemployment.
2.5   The experience wlth economlc reform ln several countrles of Eastern
Europe has also been that unemployment wa slower to emerge than reformers
expected. Once it emerqed, however, unemployment grew quickly and became very
severe. In Bulgaria, for example, unemployment whlch was negligble in May
1990, had reached 6% of the labor force a year later and 12% by January 1992.
There are already many indications that the RussLan situation could change
rapldly, including much anecdotal evLdence of an emerging unemployment problem
that is not yet reflected in unemployment registration; that new graduates
from educational institutions are having difficulties ln findlng employment;
and that many firms are retaining employees without paying them. There are
several projections that unemployment in Russia will reach between two and
four million by the end of 1992 and is likely to rise to over 10 mlllon
during 1993. It is quite possible that unemployment will reach levels of over
20% before falllng again.
2.6  One of the striking features of the limLted unemployment which has so
far appeared is the hlgh educational level of the unemployed. Thlrty percent
of those registered as unemployed in January 1992 had hlgher education,
compared with 15% in the labor force as a whole, and the proportion of the



4
unmployed with secondary vocational quallfications was also above the labor
force average. When unemployment becomes driven by plant closures, lt is
expected to be relatively concentrated in heavy lndustry and the defence
industries, and a higher proportion of blue collar workers will become
unemployed than at preset. But compared wlth other countries, the
educational levels are still likely to be high. ugineers Ln parbtoular are
likely to be in surplus -- this war a dangbr even under the previous economic
system. It is therefore necesary for the retraining program to include
coures suitable for highly educated workers as well as for those with mnual
skills.
2.7  During the ggEugtrkka period, lt began to be recognized that if the
labor market was to function more efficiently there had to be at least
frlctional unemployment. In 1991 a new (Soviet) Zmployment Law made it
possible to registor as unemployed, and to receive unemployment benefit for a
limited period. These benefits were related to previous earnings. (Annex 3
describes the unemployment benefit system.) An Umployment Fund, financed by a
1i payroll tax, was established to pay not only unemployment benefits but also
all other coots of operating an employment service. These arrangements becam
part of the law of the Russian Federation. Responsibility for employment
services became the responsibility of the Zmployment Committee, which was part
of the Ministry of Labor. In June 1992, the link with the MinLstry of Labor
was severed, and th Federal Imployment Service (FES) was established, and
subsequently enlarged (Chart 1).
2.8  The FS8 is responsible for providing overall leadership, policy
direction, and management of the nation-wide system of employment offices and
programs, primarlly through oblast Umlovment Officge2. Its functions
include planning and budgeting the nation-wide programs, managing the
biployment Fund, establishing goals, objectives and performance standards with
regional offices, developing program designs and procedures, and providing
oversight of some 88 oblast Imployment Service organizations and 2,121 raiyon
employment centers and bureaux. The oblast employmnt offices are responsible
2For the purposes of this report, "gblast refers to "oblast-level*
author4t ie, which include kral, autonomous republics, and the municipalities
of Moscow and St. Petersburg. For the purpose of administering both the
Usployment Service and aleo penions admLnistration, this will also include
some subdivisional units, such as certain autonomous okruan, to bring the
total number of this level units to 88 (rather than 73, as is used for some
purposes.) Sometlme this level gets translated as *territoriss." The
second level is described as raJyoI , though there is also some variation.
Sometimes this gets translated as wregions. (Confusingly this term sometimes
La also used for some groupings of oblasts.) A distinction is sometimes made
between cities and "rural raiyons". While it is dangerous to translate
constitutlonal analogies across boundaries, the reader should keep in mind
that the oblast is much more like a state or a province than it is like a
county. The phrase 'local authorities' normally refers to raiyon governments.



5
for muagLng employment programs and the ralyon offLces within theLr
admiistrative jurisdLitLons, including planning and budgeting, and provlding
guidance and leadership of raJyon offices and technical assLitance and
oversight of theLr operatLons.  The raiegn emolovajt offLe.s deliver the
programs mandated and authorised by the Bmployment Law directly to the
citLxens. Ratyon offices are the prLmary interface of the employment servlce
system with the goneral pubIlc where the day-to-day operatLons of the
employment servLce occur {e.g., registration for work and benefits). Payment
of unemployment benefits is made through the Savings Dank, an organization
whlch has oblast-level and raiyon-level offioce and some 41,000 branch
offices.
2.9 The IS has undergone two reorganisatLons over the past twelve months.
Its capacity is clearly overstretched wlth 80 staff on board out of a total of
125 authorized positions. Active staff recruitment is underway to add another
100 posLtions for a total staffLng level of 225. Building on existLng
procedures, new management systems have begun to be developed over the past
months to streamline communications between headquarters and the o)ilasts,
LncludLng a revLsed budget and planning systemi a formalized directives
system; oversight proceduress and an lnitial Management Information System
(MIS). These initiatives are being developed wlth Bank assiLtance, in the
fLrst instance by funding under the Technical CooperatLon Program (TCP) and
more recently under a Project Preparation FacLlity (PP7).
2.10 Local capacity is inadequate to deal wlth large scale unemployment. In
the Soviet period, employment offices (Job Placement Bureaux) only helped to
put job-seekera and employers in touch with one anothar in an era when
uizmployment was unknown. Although thelr functLons are changLig, employment
offLce remain thinly staffed, often short of offlca space, and almost
entlrely devoid of computLng equipment. It is expected that the 14,600
current staff positions in local offlces will be expanded to 22,000 by the end
of the year. If by that time there are three million unemployed, this will
create a ratio of one staff positLon for every 136 unemployed. (This compares
with 1 Ln 9 in Sweden in 1988, 1 in 33 in Austria and 1 in 98 in the U.K.)
Most of the existing and new staff wlll lack suLtable preparation for the work
requireds consequently, the demand and need for staff training will be
enormouk-.
2.11 Other handlcaps to effectlve service delivery are the result of
deficiencies of existLng logislation, which the us8 has been trying to have
amended. rLrst, the current employment law requires complex calculatlons of
past earnings in order to assess the approprlate level of unemployment
compensation. With local services ln an embryonic form, this ls
administratLvely unfeasLble if there is a rapld expansion of unemployment.
Proposed amendments to the Law would allow the temporary use of flat-rate
beneflts at two levels. The upper level would apply to applicants who have
lost thelr jobs (as distinct from lower-level first-time or returning job-
seekers) and only for six months. Second, employment services and
unemployment compensation are financed by a 1% payroll tax, 90% of which is
retained at the level of the oblast or below. This Li unsatisfactory, sincse
(a) an extra-budgetary Fund whose revenues are inversely related to lts need
for expenditure Ls fundamentally flawed; (b) the revenues of the Fund are far



6
too low to meet the benefits for more than a small fraction of the expected
numbers of unemployed; (c) the Fund has no mechanism to shift resources from
oblasto with low levels of unemployment to those with high levels (d) the
financing of retraining and other proactive employment policies needs to be
separated from the tinancing of unemployment compensation -- otherwise these
activities are likely to be reduced just as the need increases; and (e)
compliance by employers and local authorities with the provisions of the law
is far from satisfactory, further weakening the support that the FES can
provide to areas of high unemployment. These problem are acknowledged by the
Government, but with the Employment Fund still in overall surplus, other
budgetary problems are receiving greater attention. While it in not an
objective of this project to address the legislative and financial weaknesses
of the system, they will continue to be addressed as part of the policy
dialogue with the Government, which has been intense and encouraging to date.
Training
2.12 The good level of general education in Russia is likely to prove the
foundation for its economic recovery and eventual rise to prosperity. In
1990, about 12% of the Soviet population aged twenty or over was estimated to
have completed higher education, which was at or above the levels achieved by
several countries of Western Europe. In addition to its general education,
Russia also has a large and complex training system with a long tradition
dating back over more than a hundred years. In recent decades, this system
has provided pre-employment training to about two-thirds of each age cohort
graduating from the general education system. Those leaving school after only
nine years of general education have entered either the 4,300 vocational
schools operated by the Ministry of Education, which offer courses for skilled
or specialized workers of two to three years' duration, or the 2,600 technical
secondary schools, usually operated by sectoral ministries and offering two
years of secondary-level plus two years of post-secondary technical education.
(school leavers who have completed the full course of ten or eleven years of
general education can enter directly the two-year post-secondary course.)
2 13 Once employed, workers have been provided with in-service training at
all levels, from operative jobs to positions requiring postgraduate
qualifications, much of it of an ideological nature. For lower levels,
training has been provided through courses operated by "Training Combinate"
tied to state enterprises. In addition, a large amount of further training
(at least if measured in nominal course hours) has been given to people who
already hold a degree or diploma from a higher educational institution.
Middle and higher level staff have received in-service training through about
100 sectoral *Institutes for Upgrading and Qualification* which have been
operated mainly by the sector ministries. Although higher level management
training was offered by a small number of intersectoral training institutions,
most of what was described as *management training" focussed narrowly on
production processes. By 1985, the system was training annually some 1.4
million managers and technical personnel; the results of this training in
terms of efficiency and productivity are difficult to assess.
2 14  Both higher education and the training system have suffered from
excessive specialization, oriented to industrial needs. The higher education



7
system has been dominated by engineering; 300 of the 520 institutions are
devoted to engineering, and two-thlrds of the 450,000 graduates are engineers.
Vocational training courses are also very narrowly specialized; at one time
there were dlitinct training courses for,about 1,200 occupations, although an
attempt is now beLng made to reduce this number drastically. Much more needs
to be done both to consolidate industrial specialties and to broaden the
spectrum of courses to provide more training in commercial and service
occupations. Demand for graduates with predominantly technical/industrial
skills i expected to drop sharply, immediately as a result of the
stabilization program, but also in the long run as a new pattern of output
emerges, which will leave many of the technical schools heavily underutilized.
Many institutions have already begun to adapt to new opportunities; but for
most schools to do this, they will require improved access to current
informatLon on sk$ile that are likely to be needed, assistance in redesigning
program and retraining staff, improved teachLng materlals and modernized
equipment.  f such improvements can be adequately provided, then training
institutions with good potential can survive the transLtLon. The strongest
emphasis neds to be placed on generic commercial and managerial skills needed
in a market economy. Suitably modified, existing training capacity should be
adequate to provide most of the retraining and upgrading of the workforce
which will be needed as a consequence of the ongoLng restructuring. Priority
needs to be given to the upgrading of existing institutions rather than the
establishment of new ones.
2.15  The limited amount of unemployment that has so far occurred has largely
involved white-collar workers. This trend is likely to change as workers in
large enterprises begin to be laid off, but as heavy industrLes are very
vulnerable, and especlally those previously producing military products, this
means that unemployment is likely to continue to hit those wlth a high degree
of specialized education, and particularly engineers. In the past, trainLng
has been largely driven by the skills needs of enterprises. Most vocational
and technical schools were very closely linked to specific enterprises. In
the near future, however, lt is unlikely that lt will be possible to identify
impending vacancies before the retraining of the unemployed can begin. The
demand for labor wl11 not be at all buoyant. In many cases, such as the
retraining of engineers in commercial skllls, the length of traLaLng needed
will be substantial. Such skills may be valuable in self-employment or in
very small enterprises. As a consequence, emphasls should be placed on
training in more generlc skills, such as electronics and process control
technlques, quality control, customer servlce, commerclal and financial
skills, computer skills and foreign languages. For some of these, such as
accountancy, there is already a very clear unmet demand. Training programs
should be designEd in a modular format, so that standardized tralnlng modules
can form the building blocks of different courses to meet the needs of
different jobs and occupations. A system of modular certification could be
provLded in the form of a book to be issued to each trainee and a computerlzed
record system could be used to fac$litate national certification. A separate
entrepreneurship or self-employment support component is included in the
proposed Privatization Project.
2.16 Recently a number of training institutions have been forced to switch
from total government financing to total or partial self-financing, and have



a
beun charging enterprlse market prices for courses and started to modernize
thoei progams. Some have exhibited considerable imagination and drive,
surviving in dLfficult times by reduclng and restructuring staff, by offering
programs in popular areas (marketing, computers, privatization, stock markets,
commodity exchanges, etc.), and by renting space. On the negative side, there
are many instances where the courses are poorly designed, and taught by
unqualified instructors. Nevertheless, on balance, this willingness to seek
commercial opportunities Li encouraging, and suggests that with assistance in
course design and wlth the supply of training materials and educational
equipment, substantial and cost-effective improvement could be achieved. By
sponsoring training on behalf of the unemployed through properly designed
contracts with existing Lnstitutions, the ES can stimulate the national
training effort in that direction.
2.17  The proposed project would provide an important foundation for future
lending directed specifically at training. It would generate materials,
currlcula and courses with positive externalities throughout the education
system. At the sam time, the proposed project would support training efforts
for a specific clientele: those either without a job, or at high risk of
becoming unemployed. This would be complementary to the massive retraining
needs in critical skill areas for the workforce at large, which were the
subject of the recent training pre-identification mission. Although the
development of training programs for small business development is not
specifically included in this project, it is anticipated on a pilot basis in a
forthcoming project in support of privatization.
Pensions and Other Cash Penefits
2.18 Under the Soviet system, pensioners were often the poorest people in
ociety. The myth of stable prices led to retirement pensions that remained
unchanged in nominal terms for decades. A reform of the system, which came
into effect early in 1991, aligned minimum pensions to minimum wages, but also
required these to be indexed to prices. Changes in minimum pensions were to
be reflected at all pension levels, thus maintaining relativities. Pensions
were to be financed on a pay-as-you-go basis through a Pension Fund, which
would derive its revenue from a payroll tax that would rise to a 31.6%
employer contribution and a 1% worker contribution in 1992. This Fund has
become an independent entity whose Chairman reports to the Supreme Soviet.
The Minitlry of SocLal ProtectLon (NSP) (Chart 2) has become responsible for
the payment of pensions and family benefits and also poverty relief. Russia's
pension legislation also covers disability and survivors' benefits.
2.19 Procedures for calculating and paying benefits that may have been
adequate when pensions changed very little from year to year are
unsatisfactory in present circumstances. The system relies heavily on manual
record keeping and calculation of complicated benefits. Since working
pensioners accrue additional years of service and higher annual earnings which
requires frequent recalculation of their pensions, the almost entirely
unautomated local pension offlies make 40 million pension calculations each
year, excluding adjustments for price changes. The system has no ability to



9
identify the record of contributions (as opposed to work histories) made on
behalf of individuals.
2.20 The safety net needs to comprise more than categorical entitlement
programs. Even under the previous system, there were some individuals who
might be classified as the "workLig poor", such as members of families with
many children, female-headed households, and individuals who were temporarily
without regular employmnt. We know of the existence of these individuals
from a mall number of household surveys conducted by academic institutions,
but there is little information on the numbers involved. The NSP together
with the Presidential Administration, administers a Fgnd for the Social
Su=oort of the Ponulation, largely financed with 10% of the proceeds from
pr!vatization, and a one-time payment of Rb. 4.3 billion from the assets of
the former Communist Party. The Fund operates in 40 territories, partly
through the XSP, and the balance as part of the administration of the
President of the Russian Federation. The Commission on Social Policv of the
Suem SoviLet administers a somawhat similar fund. But most of the sources
of support for the pcor are provided by local ouroes. As the economy
continues to decline, ther may be many local authorities that simply cannot
cope with such demands. At present the Government lacks the ability to ensure
that the help it might provide can be promptly supplied or properly targeted.
2.21 The Government is well aware of the need for an improved safety net.
Its policies are described in the social policies section of the recently
approved Xedium-Term Structural Reform program, and summarized in the
Meorandum of Economic Policies accompanying the Rehabilitation Loan (P-5834-
RU, July 22, 1992). With World Bank assistance, the Government is In the
process of defining a realistic "subsistence minimum" that it intends to
defend against inflation, and use as the basis for determining pensions, and
unemployment benefits. (Minimum levels of these will be close to this line.)
This work is very close to completion. It is also developing policies to
provide a more complete safety net for individuals, irrespective of their
entLtlement to categorical cash benefit programs, no matter where they live.
While this obligatlon is recognized in principle, the modalities will take
time to establish, and this project includes some technical assistance for
accompllshing that task. The main elements of the design of a targeted system
are to be completed by the end of December 1992; full implementation is to
take place before the end of 1993.
3 The actual payment of pensions is made directly ln cash by the
postman, or by the post office or through the Savings Bank. It should be
noted that the wldely reported problems of pensioners not receiving their
pensions for several weeks or even months reflects a widespread physidcal
shortage of cash in a country undergoing extremely rapid inflation, that
demonetimed its lrger notes early in 1991, and that denied individuals
checking accounts until recently. it has nothing directly to do with pension'
administration.



10
ank'oa Role and 3trat.q
2.22 Fram the outset, the work under the Technical Cooperation Program (TCP)
betwee Russia and the  ak involved technical assistance ln deigLaLng and
imlemnting a cohernt set of policies towards the social safety net, which
contributed to the reno  ai-os of the Structural Reform Program4. As
dscribed In the Report of the President on the RehablILtation Loan,
strengthehnig the soclal safety net to protect vulnerable groups during the
reform process, assiting in labor force restructuring and developing the
human resource skills and instLtutLonal capaelty needed to support a market-
based economy are key medium-term objectives of the Bank. These objectives
are all served by this project.
2.23 Technical assistance to the DES, identLfied as a prlorlty, has been part
of the TCP from lts outset. The preparation work done under the auspices of
the TCP provides a sound basis for the proposed project. The project ie
designed to address the tfrst problem wLth the Government's strategy, the
weakness of the PES. it is viewed as a necesary precursor of a more
cauprehensive 5-year BRploymnt Servioes and Social Protection Project in
Y94. Therefore the current operation would be a very important step along
the way to a reformed and offectlve system of soclal security needed for the
operation of a modern market economy. The proposed project, and its
successor, would assist the Govermenut to establish syotms and institutions
which will not be dependent on continuing foreign assistance.
2.24 The legislative and fluanc al weaknesse of the system have been
highlighted in the Country Econoic Mord   and stresd as part of the
polLcy dLalogue with the Government, which has been intens and encouraging.
A sector report arly in 1993 will pull together the main work carried out so
far, updated where appropriate with respect to some iesues that are not yet
resolved. Issues of socLal expenditure, including employment servLces and
other social protection, and the relative role of central and local
governments and enterprim, will be emphasized. ThLs will provide an
opportunlty for continuing our pollcy dialogue on these topics. The report
will include analysis and recenmmendatLons for health sector fLnancing and
reform catrLed out under the TCA, as a precursor to further sector work and a
MS9SJ project on health. In addltlon, the work of an ongoLng mlssion on
training is expected to result ln a sector report, and to facilitate lending,
eLther through a stand-alone project or as components of other projects.
pcnr= CoordLnatLon
2.25 The FE8 launched lts firat donor coordination meetLng Ln March 1992,
followed by a second ln September. The first elicLted asaLstance from several
bilatoral sources for beginning the development of model offiees in St.
Petersburg and Moscow, ln preparing procedural directives for INS offLces and
4 An early product of work carried out under the TCA is the recently
published paper by Nicholas Barr, n     Transfor  and the Social Safety Not
Mn uusia, Studies of Economies in Transformation Mo. 4, World Bank, 1992.



11
in revising existing legislation. Details of the proposed project, which ln
part drw on donor experience over the last six months, were presented at the
September meeting whlle other donors pledged continuing support for work
already underway and additLonal asseLtanuce from Sweden, Germany, the United
States, onM and 12W. FZS efforts to coordlnate donor activlties have paid
divLdends in that there has been no duplication of effort and donors are
workLng together to ensure complementarlty of actLvitLes in the employment
servLces field. It will be important to ensure that such coordination La
extended to include training activitLes for which assistance La beiLng provided
not only in this project, but in other Bank projects, and by other donors.
III. LUssOUs PUOM R"CIUT BXPURFXNCQ
m21vment gervices ln Industr&al ountries
3.1  Research in lndustrial countries has shown that effective employment
programs combine reactlve and proactive measures (e.g. unemployment benfits
with job search assistance). Actlve measures often nesd complementary
mechanisms lf they are to be cost effectlve (e.g. employment counselling and
assesment before traLuLng). At the same time, according to a recent World
Bank survey,5 lt is critioal that a legal and budgetary dLstinction be made
between the source of finacing for income support, and that for proactive
employment programs. OtherwLse, evLdence suggests that income support
expenditures will *crowd out" investments in proactive activities during
periods of high unemployment, just when the need for the latter becomeos more
acoite. As noted above (para. 2.11), this could become a serious problem for
the Employment Pund and is the reason why the Bank is seeking changes in the
prsent budgetary arrangements.
3.2   Many studies whLch have examined the effect of unemployment
compensatLon on the duratlon of unemployment have concluded that higher
benefits lead to longer spells of unemployment, and not necesearily to an
equivalent or better payLng job. That is, unemployment benefits do provlde
the needed income support to displaced workers, but could impede the process
of economic restructurLig. Is thls a danger in Russia? It seems unlikely,
aince the length and level of unemployment beneflts are not generous. The
benef t currently beLng pald is only about 2S% of the average wage, normally
for a maximum of 12 months, Lncreasing by one week for each year of servLce
over 25 years (the latter proviLson makLag claim processing very time-
consuming).
3.3   In industrial countrles, there has been a shlft of public resources
toward proactive polLeLes, partlcularly training, reflecting the growing
importance of human capital development on the one hand, and the decline in
public works and wage subsLdles on the other. Although some proactive
programs, such as retraining, may be more expenslve per partLeLpant than pure
income support, the duration of unemployment may be reduced to such an extent
S Developina Effectie Emnlovment Services, Draft, June 2, 1992, 3025R,
para.99.



12
that total costs are lower. A recent study concluded that job search
assistance is osgt effective, and should be the core of any adjustment
assistance offered to displaced workers.6 The results of employment service
evaluations in a number of countries have led to the conclusion that placement
programs can be a cost effective use of public funds in expediting the
redeployment of labor.7 Such evaluations take into account a range of
benefits flowing from more rapid redeployment, including additional labor and
capital earnings, tax revenue, national insurance contributions, and savings
on unemployment benefits. However, an Important problem typlcal of many
public employment servicoes i the relatively low penetration rate - i.e. only
about a third of total vacancies are generally listed. Thls ls partly
attributable to location of placement services at benefit offices, which
obscures the placement function; staffing problems; and the nature of the
unemployed cllentele, who are often low skilled. One possibility is to
reqplre all employer* to register vacancies with the employment service, as
mandated by law in some OBCD countries.
3 4  Accumulating evldence on mass redundancies points to the value of
establlshlng on-site employment servLies as early as possible before the
actual layoff date, and the importance of advance notlces. The most effectlve
programs appear to be those where both employers and workers are dLrectly
involved ln the design and delivery of services. Thli approach has been
followed in Canada, and is being adapted and used in Hungary. In Canada,
between 1971 and 1981, labor-management committees, set up wlth the assistance
of the IndustrLal Adjustment Service, found 66 jobs for every 100 workers
displaced, usually within a year. on average, 118 assistance reduced the
jobless spell by two weeks (thereby virtually paying for ltself).
3 S   Beyond placement, the OECD recommends that employment servlce actLvities
extend to counselling job seekers about educational and training
opportunities. However, lt should be noted that evaluations of training in
industrLal countries have shown mixed results. Overall, employment service
offLces wlth job training programs have hlgher wage/replacement ratlos.
Whblat recognizing that generalizations are hazardous (given wlde variations
ln cost, type of training, facilities, etc.), a major study of the
costs/beneflts of training concluded that the benefits substantially
outweighed the costs, in terms of lncome gains to individuals and especLally
for the long term unemployed.8 On the other hand, certain groups tend not to
enroll (older, less educated and female), and programs tend to train those who
most likely to be reemployed. Successful training programs requir skilful
guidance advlsors and trainers who can interest displaced workers in longer
term development, and amend curricula as nDeds dictate.
6 Leigh, D. (1990) Does Trainlna Work for Dianlaed Worker1? A 8urvev of
j$gtLna ZRLtfnce, Upjohn InstLtute for Employment Research.
7 Develoing Effective ZmnlgMent Servicee, Draft, June 2, 1992,
EC21H, para.99.
8 Somers at al (1964) A Cgst fenef$t AnalysLs of Mhanno2r Retraining, ANA
IndustrLal AssocLation, Chicago.



13
3.6  Computerlsation is an important aspect of the proposed strengthening of
the employment services. A recent international symposlum on thi topic9
concluded, lats. ai1a. that computers can be powerful tools for the varying
needs of employment servLces, provided that the applications are carefully
selected. Same of the benefits can be quantifled (e.g.* faster vacancy
filling and staff savings) while others are harder to quantlfy (e.g., quallty
of placement). Zn Flnland, the savings resultLng from shortened duratlon of
unemployment exceeded the considerable expenditure Lncurred in establlshing an
extensive automatlon project. The key factors in success ares (i) the use of
standardlzed occupational-industrLal-educatLonal codes and classifications 
and (LL) user acceptance (e.g., unlon attitudes).
3.7  Staff are a oritical input to employment servLies, particularly as the
emphasis shlfts to proactive polLcLes, as distLnct from benefit delLvery.
Avallable evldence reveals wlde variations in levels of staffLng (Table 3.1),
although it is dlfflcult to compare clLent-staff ratios without knowing the
exact compositlon of the servLces dellvered. It is, however, falrly clear
that the Lacreasing demands placed on staff (with rLsing unemployment and
Lncreased emphasLs on proactive policies), and limited funds, have created
serlous problem  with staff recruitment and traLnLng even ln well establihed
employment ervLces. one US pilot study found that the increased staffing
increased the level of services in local offlces wlth concomitant long term
constructlve beneflts, so that the addltional resources dld not necessarlly
increase average costs per cllent.
Tabl 3.is Ratio of Staff to Unemployed
Employment Services Ln Selected Countries 1988.
Sweden                  1l9
Austrla                 1:33
Germany                 1:37
United Xlngdom          1s98
Portugal                1:120
Poland                  1:225
Turkey*                 1375
Mexlco*                 1:400
RussLa (Aptll 1992)    110
(Dec. 1992)            1:136
* indlcates staff/applicant ratio - no unemployment baneflt system -
limited core services and actlve program.
SOURCE: World Bank DReeglon EffectivLe        v megn& services, June 2, 1992
(Staff eatutates for RuseLa on basis of projected increased number of
unemployed to 3 million by December and a rise from 14,000 to 22,000 field
staff).
9 XLO (1988) The Ute of comnuter Technoloav in Nmloyment Servi2es.
ecord gf Pro_enas,  Labor AdminLstration Branch, Document #9.



14
Leffssons from ftnk Rxnerienc.
3.8  The project i. designed to alleviate the scial costs of adjustmnt by
providing immediate inacm support to those who are displaced, and by measures
which will facilitate the emergence of effectively functioning labor markets.
Sank activities aimed at institutional developmnt, enhancing the indigenous
@apacLty of borrower institutions to perform their functlons on a sustainable
basis, are becomlng an increasingly important theme in lending operatlons,
often through technical assistance. OBD analysis of Bank involvment in
Lnstitutional strengthening has revealed mlxed results, and has emphasised the
importance of the following factors:
(i)   Government commitment. A review of 19 African cases of TA for
institutional development (ORD Report #8S73) found that tho five
deemed to be successful enjoyed the full support of the relevant
government ministries and agencies. Project Identification,
preparation and pro-appraisal in the present aea has demonstrated
a large sense of olocal ownership' and the strong commitment of
the leadership of the central agency involved, the employment
service. Technical assestance under the project would be of
limited duration and foreign advisers would be matched with an
adequate number of counterpart Russian staff to ensure continuity
of activities following the departure of expatriates.
(ii)  Clarity of objectives and procedures. These need to be clearly
stated and understood at the outset. There have been long
bureaucratLc delays with new borrowers in 3astern Europe
reflecting, in part, unfamiliarity with Bank procedures. The
design of the project neds to be simple and straightforward. Xn
addition, training in project managemnt and famlliarity with Bank
procedures needs to be planned early in the project. This can be
pursued through, for example, an Implementation Workshop. The
propoed project intends to employ a sLmilar approach, possibly
through a Launch Workshop which draws in officials from local
offices around the country.
(iii) Staff training. Some of the worst failures have occurred with
respect to training, and this component has generally been
underepent. The problems have been attributed to poor selection
of candidates, lack of consultants with approprLate skills, the
difficulties inherent in the consultant/counterpart relationship,
and high staff turnover.
(iv) Supervision. The foregoing poLnts to the need for intensive
supervision by Bank staff. Poorly performing projects in the
area of computerization and institutional development have
frequently been characterized by insufficient and poorly qualified
supervision.
3.9  Computerization is an important component of this project. ORD review
has found that the use of computers can provide more efficlent and effective
smns for data collection and analysis, communication and dissemination.



15
Nevertheless, a recent Bank survey points out that the difficulty of
developing and implemnting a compt hnsive employment servLee automation plea
should not be underetimated, particularly in an enviroment characterixed by
rapidly rLsing unemploymnt and Ilmited local capacity. An important loveon
evident frm experience in projects in lastern 3urope is that the
cmputerization effort should emphasize simplicity nd speed ln an extensive
network. The imediate goals should be the registration of clients and
beneflt calculation. The delays encontered in attempting to lntroduce a mre
sophisticated national network ln Poland led to local offices introducLng
their own system  in a spontaneous ed uncoordinated fashLon, so that twelve
dlfferent systems emerged.
IV.
A.   Proiect Rationale A  Obecie
4.1  Rationale for Rank  *iaoing. The project directly addresses the Bank's
twin concerns to alleviate poverty and to promote the efficient use of
economic resources.  The first is reflected ln its central aim of
strengthening one of the weakest parts of the Russlan safety net, whbch are
measures to assist those who lose their jobs in the stabLilzation and
adjustment process. Second, lt will help to improve the functioning of the
labor market to speed up the redeployment of skills, which is central to a
successful restructurLng of the RUssian economy. The support for retraining
will assist efforts wbich have already begun to transforz Russia's human
capital base in ways that are necessary for a prosperous market economy. Bvon
more important, the success of the reform and stabilization program ltself
would be jeopardized by a failure to provide incomes to those who become
uneaployed; the only politically feasble alternative is to continue to
provide wage subsidies through credlt to bankrupt enterprLses.
4.2   *gifet abiecti,Xe. The central objectlve of this project, whLch is to
be implemented between Pebruary 1993 and October 1994, is to develop the
capacity of the IRS to process the anticLpated avalanche of benefit claims
from the rapidly growing numbrs of unemployed following privatization and
economic restructuring. It is also designed to develop the capacity of the
-PE to carry out active employment policies, including retraining, and to
assist 38P to develop improved pensions administration and, with other
agencLes, to reform the pension system and commence the design of a modern
ocial securlty system. Thls will help in the preparation of successor
projects ln the areas of employment servleas, soclal protection and training.
4.3   *roEc RZoutlo. Work done under the auspiLe  of the T5P was the
JI5=  of what is envLsaged to be fur pagg  in creating a fully operational
employment servle- in Russia. The neds of the employment services were
identified and assistanco was given to the design of a concentrated effort to
addrss the short-term needs of the MRS. In parallel bllateral donors wer
making modest interventLons in establlhinBg model employment service offices,
and assiLting Y  management ln preparing interim managenot and
administrative guidelines to dlitributo among the most needy regional and
local offices whee un              expected to hit earliest and be most



16
severe. The segggd phao is a continuation of the first* where a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) provldes limited fLnancing to continue the
preparation work begun under the fLrst phase, and encompasses  (a) the desLgn
of management system, to prepare PFS headquarters for project management; (b)
contlnued preparation and dLitributLon of Lnterim guldellnes to key local
offLies; (c) for both the FES and 8PS, developing lnitLal computerLzatLon
standards ln anticlpatlon of early receipt of large number of computers, and
preparatlon of bLddLag documents for the procurement thereof; (d) further
preparatlon of policies related to mass layoffs and a standby public servLce
employment program; (a) beginnLng to develop an overall job traLning strategy
and traLinng traLners in key centers in readlness for traLnLng activitles
under the project; and (f) launching an effort to prepare teaching materlals
to develop natLonally-recognized qualiflcatlons ln commercLal occupations.
4.4 ThLi project forms the thir phase. it aims to complete the preparation
of programs, systems and mechanisme needed for an effectlve unemployment
benefit and employment servLces dellvery, train staff ln their application,
test the system at the reglonal and local levels, create the capacity to
automate the system and develop materials and provide LiLtial equipment for
training of the unemployed and those at rlsk of becomang unemployed.
4.5 In order to support the prompt delLvery of unemployment beneflts it is
necessary to install minimal hardware, software and applLcatLons packages. A
Deneflts Subsystem Applications Package will permit automated regLstration,
benefits calculation and record keepLng. Preparatory work under the PPF has
allowed for the ongoing distribution of operational and procedural guLdelLnes
to local offices; this project would help to streamlLne the flow of
information. Improved central-local communications wlll impact on the deslgn
of software and applications systems, to incorporate the capability of
ensuring approprlate lnterfacLng between computer system and office
procedures.
4.6 Over the longer term, a more sophisticated network of computerizatlon
wlll enhance the capacLty of the PUS to effect a broad range of Imployment
Service functlons, develop a core polley making capaclty, and design ongoing
employment programs. The Information and Data Management System and
appllcations packages that emerge as a result of the longer term
computerLsatLon program will facilitate progress towards a modern computerlied
social security system (para 4.8., (d)) encompassing lnter-relationshLps
between dlfferent soclal welfare/employment agencies.
4.7  The third phase would be followed by a fourth, a comprehenslve
Dmployment Services and Social Protection Project in FY94 whLch would
repllcate throughout the country (probably over about five years) the
unemployment benefits and employment services systems deslgned in phases 1
through 3. It would also begln to integrate the LafonmatLon requirements (and
possibly administratLve and payments mechanlims) of cash beneflt programs that
are currently determlned and admlnistered by the F8S and the MlnLetries of
Labor and SocLal Protectlon and the ComisLsLon of the Supreme Soviet on Social
Policy. Consequently# the proposed operation would be a very lmportant step
towards a system of soclal security appropriate to a modern market economy.



17
4.8  To meet the objectkve  describe  aboe (Pars. 4.2), the proJect would
finn  equipment and technical assistance for suorting the followLngs
(a)  For s=ervie delivery bv the 1F2:  undertake the phsed implementation of
vomputor systems inoluding polioLes, standards, hardware and software at
all levels of the 135 system with peLorlty focus on registration and
benefit payments and 1S8 mnagemnt system.  AutomatLon would be
latroduced gra4ually over the course of protect implemntation as the
field offLces meet the selectLon crLterLa (para. S.13). The software
for the computers L in the proess of bei   selected from amaong a
number of ad hoc models currently ln use. The equipment would also
facLlitate job search.
(b)  For lgoe tM gaanct buLlding _f Mains
(i)   desLgn programs, enabling mechanisms and monitorLng syste  to
improve labor SAKe"t nolies ad  -ans    -  aml
(iL)  develop                 inCqM  ari;e Lcluding model aployment offLces.
standby public job creation and mas layoffs. This will also
include the design of a long range automation plan for the FZS#
and detailed plans for the first phase of Its implementation;
(iiL) develop an occupational classefication ssm and organize
monitorLaa of labor markets for foreOastiug unmploymnt and other
demands on the 1P8. Thli will also facLlitate the process of
monitoring living standards and poverty;
(iv) to improve the capaclty of the FI8 in ongoing efforts to organLse
ign tratina in new sklle for the unemployed to meet.the demands
of a market economy, and to prepare curricula and materials. Thli
component would generate posLtlve externalitLes through, for
example, the production of traLning materials which can be used
throughout the system; and
(v)  Whlle the focus of the TA is to the Moscow headquarters of the
138, the success of the project dpends on its use at local
levels. 8taff traLnano for both headquarters and local staff of
the PS5 wlll be a component of almost all parts of the project.
it would be facilitated by a speclal unit.
(a)  For improving the operatlonal effectiveness of the Has Technical
assLstance, equLpment and staff training would be provided to develop
and test the automatLon of cash beneflt delivery on a pllot basis in
three selected oblasts. Additional ?A would be licluded for the design
of benefit programs. Related work in the Ministry of Labor would also
benefit from thLs part of the projects and
(d)  For initlating the design of a modern social securLty scheme: A master
plan for a modern computerized social security system would be



18
developedr exploiting complmntaritieS aMong the different agencies
involved with employment services, cash benefits and social assistance.
The plan would Lnclude recommendations for phasing.
C.   DtaLed Pastures
prleet aordinakiun aLt
4.9  A Project Coordination Unit (PCO) will be established to support the
management of the FES by developing operations guLdelLnes followLag
performanc benchmarka already agreed. TA tasks would include: (a)
coordLnating the execution of the project operatlons schedule LicludLng
performance benchmarkas (b) developing contractor reportLng procedure. and
provldLng contractor monLtorLngi (e) ensuring coordination of the rlated TA
tasks activlties, e.g., user requirements with the automation designs (d)
preparing overall project progress reportsu (e) developing financLal oversight
system and assistLng in financLal monitorLig; (f) advising on procurement
proceduresi and (g) a range of other general management and administrative
dutieL requlred Ln carrying out the overall project, such as translation and
interpreter services. The PCU would also provide training and experience to
local staff, so that it could be gradually integrated into work of the
headquarters staff of the FES. Its role and functlons are detailed in paras.
5.8-5.12 below. The management structure and functions of the proposed
project are elaborated upon in Sectlon V below.
staff TrainLn= Unl_
4.10 The staff training unlt would coordinate the overall nS staff training
effort including scheduling, arrangemnts for facilitLes, and the provision of
assistance in developing training materials and aids. These activities would
be carried out in cloos cooperation wlth the substantive area TA teams which
would hate the major role in speclfying course content and tralning
reVquirements. SpecLalist short-term consultants would help to develop an
overall staff training policy and capacity for the 15 and employment service
system at the regional and local levels. IdentifLcation of staff training
need and responses would lnclude development of course content, training
materials and training aids, providLng equlpment and faclities, and overall
organisation and management of a traLning program that would Laclude self-
instructional materials, traiLnng traLnrs and upgrading and refresher
courses.
Delivery gf Unenmlvment Beneflts and Umolo=ent Servlies
4.11 At present, computing facilities are limited to a small number of
employment offices (50 as of May 1992). Configurations vary eubstantially,
although the FES technical (non-mandatory) guidelines call for IBM-compatible
PCs an associated operating systms software. A variety of applications to
perform the basic functlons of an employment offLce have been developed
independetly by local offices. The VES is currently evaluatLng existing
programs in use by employment offices, with a vlew to selectLig the best and
making them the national standard. The project will provLde TBM-compatible



19
PCe and related equipment, software and other material to ensure the capacity
to register a very large increase in the number of unemployed and to calculate
benefits. An average of two computers would be supplied to each raiyon office
and additional units will be suppled to areas where unemployment is expected
to be most serious. ActivltLes will include a crash program of policy and
administrative streamlining, computer and software support, and staff training
in the necessary procedures and requirements. This part of the project can
draw on technical assistance provided both by other donors and under the PPF.
Computers will be provided to local offices, together with software (presently
under testing and evaluation) and staff training, under regulatlons which
prohibit their use for any other purpose. It will be a function of the PCU to
determine the readiness of each office to receive computers (para. 5.13).
Labor Market Pnllcies and Nanacoment vystems
4.12 Technical assistance and equipment will be provided to the F$S to: (a)
develop the core policy making, program planning, budget formulation and
financial control system, Including an audit capacity supported by a
management information system; (b) develop a modest research, evaluation and
policy development capacity, as well as a program design and development
capacity in such areas as job placement, job development, testing and
counseling, occupational analysis; and (c) develop of an employment service
oversight/management capacity. Teams of technical experts in each of the
functional areas, working within an overall national policy and program
framework, will be assigned to work in the e8 departments on a day-to-day"
basis to jointly develop with Russian counterparts the initial set of
procedures, processes and overall systems necessary to mount a federal type
employment service effort. PUS organizational issues, staffing and training
requirements as well as policy and operational issues raised by the Employment
Law and related laws and decrees will be addressed.
Proaram Services
4.13  Developing model local gIaMoigMen  lffics and providing support for
their replication throughout the Bmployment Service will require technical
assistance to the FES, which takes account of the diverse needs of the
employment system and will include computing capacity. The model will be
developed with input from local employment services and involve the following:
(a) development of an initial design based on an evaluation of existing
Russian experiments and experience elsewhere in Bastern Europe  (b)
application and field testing on a full-scale basis in up to three local
oifices with different operational environmentes (c) refinement and
development of a standard model (with options); (d) development of "how to"
replication packages, including guidelines, procedures, systems, technical
materials, software, facilities and equipment requirements (e) training of
regional staff and the development of a regional capacity to prov±de
implementation assistance to local employment officesl (f) establish a
national level "trouble shooting" technical assistance capacity to support the
rgional implementation effort; (g) monitoring the model's mplementation and
operational experience to adjust the model and to add new requirements that
may mergel and (h) drawing upon the model's requirements to provide input to



20
the development of overall staffing, staff traLning and user camputerisation
requirements. Some office equiptent and matorial will be included.
4.14 The project wlll assist In the lonp-torm    e1cu ant of comuer
smrIJ.nshlna and installation of required hardware and software to upport a
comprehensive range of client services and mnagement informatLon systems at
selected offices (Annex 5). These applications will reflect extensions of the
software to be installed an part of the program described below (paras. 4.26
and 4.27). The projact includes the establishment of small technical
reference librarLes ln nearly every oblast.
4.15  Procedures and measures will be developed to respond to  an layoffs
including the entablishment of early response teams (NRT) which will provide
assistance to enterprlses faced with large redundancies. Under the project
technical assistance to the Its will be provided to develop, in concert with
regional and local amplcyment services, an operational ERT program. First, a
model ZR? (containing the necessary methodology, procedures, tools, techniques
and guidelines) will be developed and fleld tested in several mass layoff
situations. Based on the experience gained, the final ERT program will be
designed and a cadre of regional employment ervice staff tralned to carry out
UT activities. The Ins will develop a national level BRT capacity to asist
in major layoffs, the design and testing of new techniques and to serve as a
clearing houe to share experiences among the local employment services.
4.16 Pfl's capacity would be strengthened to develop substantial labor-
inteaive zublic service and/or temprary emlovment nroarams to create
temporary.employment and to provide useful services and products through the
following: (a) further development of policies and guidelines for the
implementation of the job creation jublic service employment authority already
provided for in the NMployment Lawl1 and (b) the design and development of a
standby discretional public service employment program whereby FE8 grants will
be given to local authoritLes to employ the unemployed in labor intensive
activities, in specific localities experienclng sudden and severe increase in
unmployment. Technical assistance will be provided to the INS and regional
employment services staff in developing an operational program including
assistance in structuring staff training efforts for the employment service
specialists conducting the program.
4.17 For some parts of the economy, the standby programs described above may
prove to be inadequate. Russia has significant numbers of cities that are
very greatly dependent on a single activity, including defense activities that
are/may be closed down altogether. Such areas will require much more
extensive assistance if their economies are not to collapse. included in the
project will be a review of the existing policies and capabilities' the
identification of needs and requirements and the development of an overall
podley and program framework which would provide Russian with an integrated
and coordlnated local economic development capacity. In cooperations with the
pertinent authoritles, Woposals for the specific econodmc developent
10This is an ongoing public works program already carried out under the
auspices of local employment services and largely locally funded.



21
pollles and programs will be developed including the legislatlon and related
resources whlih may be needed. The first stage of this activlty will be the
overall deslgn of the effort, its scope, objectlves and products. Dased on
this workl speciflc ter  of reference for the detailed work will be prepared
and carried out.
Labor Osloe  nfoMtILon Swute
4.18 TechaLcal assistance wlvi be provided to begln to develop an updated
comprehensive ocauatonL 1 lassLificatLonsystm that will be used as the
standard system not only for the employment services but throughout the
Russian government, e.g., statLstical agencles, as well as by enterprises. Its
full development, to be completed under phase 4, wll involve a wide range of
Government agencles and an interagency design and coordlnating group will need
to be astablished. The classdficatlon needs to be linked to skill
requirements, to be useful for the design and accredLtation of nationally
accepted trainLng courses, and for occupational guidance and counselling, for
which materLals need to be developed. Guidelines and other informational
materials will be prepared to help promote the effectlve working of the labor
market, lncluding the establlibment of private job placement agencies, the
promotion of newspaper "help wanted* advertisements, and the preparatlon 'how
to' brochures on seeking employment, job interviewing, resume preparation,
etc.
4.19 Technical assistance to organize labor market monitorina through use of
service statLitLcs of employment offices, household surveys, enterprise
surveyt, and speclal surveys (e.g-, telephone surveys). Links need to be
established betwen labor market monltorlng and poverty monitoring. The
methodology for labor market forecasting, both locally and nationally, needs
to be improved. Staff would be trained in procedures of routlne monLtoring.
bpurLma negotiations it was aareed that detailed toerm of efernce would he
nregnad under the En1 and would be aareed between the 135 and the DAA" I ara,
7.1 lall.
4.20 The INS has already begun to undertake training activLties, which are an
essential part of comprehensive proactlve employment stratogy. The project
wll help to strengthen national capacLty to provlde training to the
unemployed or those workers whose present employmeat is at risk. This will
occur primarLly through the provlsion of technical assistance to the 135 ln
two broad areas: (a) traLning strategLes and polLcies; and (b) traLnLng
program and materials.
4.21 Technlcal assiLtance would be provided to enable the F18 to develop a
traLniag pollcy and strategy whlch wlll deliver flexible adult training
programs accordLng to the needs of the emerglng market economy. EmphaLsi will
be placed on a strategy based on the contracting by Employment Servlces
OffLces of traLnlng to exLstLng local institutions (public and Private)
capable of deliverlng modular, broad based, job-orLented traLnlng COUrses ln
skill areas wlth good employment prospects. FES staff would be assiLted to
develop crLterla for the selectLon of the traLning lnstltutions as well as



22
adeqate contractiag procedures, monitoring and evaluation procedures and
operational guidelines for the proposed new traLning strategy which will
specify priority client groups and skill areas. (It was aered durina
necotiation. that mrour t of trainn&g eauinment would commence only after
deAiled criteria for sJelecti  gf trAinina inetitutiogas gntd goursee hLae bee
developed  d d        by h   ak liara.7.1iIb.  Special emphasis would be
placed on the development of linkages between the 13S, the Employment Servlces
Offices at regional and local levels and the training institutions which meet
the above mentioned criteria. Policies for the relevant development of FES
and Employment Offices staff would be elaborated and agreed with the Staff
Development Vnit. It is assumed that existing training facilities operated by
the Ministry of Education (MoR) are capable in many cases of being reoriented
and restructured to meet the criteria of the proposed modular trailning system.
Xt is anticipated that in making the selection of institutions and courses,
local employment offices will work closely with representatives of employers,
trade unions, and other units of local government. The arrangEments for
coordination of actLvitLes related to workforce retraining among FES, Mob and
other relevant mLaLstries are beLng developed by the FES ln accordance with a
Presidential decree issued in May 1992.
4.22 In parallel wlth the establishment of criteria and with the development
of policies and procedures, a second technical assistance team will put in
place actual trainLng responses according to the identifled needs of the local
labor market. it is assumed that these traLning responses wlll be generLc and
broad-based and will respond to needs not yet met by the Russian educatlon or
trainLng system, i.e., the requirements of the developing service and
commercLal sectors and the new skill needs created ln restructured or
privatized enterprises. Once local labor market requirements have been
identified and approprLate traLning responses agreed wlth relevant Russian
partners, development of actual trainLng programs would be initLated. It is
intended that these program should meet the crLteria developed by the PBS and
should address the needs of spweial cllent groups (e.g., disadvantaged youth,
longer term unemployed, women, et.) according to greed polley. Where
possible, modules and materLals would be incorporated from available
international sources and the project will support the adaptation and
translation of thes materLals. Where necessary and feasible the project will
support local contracting out of curriculum development and provision is made
for the production of these materials on a competitive basise Each curriculum
package or module would be installed, tested and revised by the Technical
Assistance team before being released for countrywlde use.
4.i3 The training initiatives begun under this project would be a first step
towards eatablLihing an improved training system; actLve discussions of a
poseible training projeot are underway. Moreover, the short time horizon of
the present project prevents major investments in new facilLties and
equipsent. Eowever, a mlnimum investment in hardware is required. As
described above, the present project would provLde a core of new training
programs and curriculum materials suitable for further applicatlon in a larger
retraining program. Th progra would Lnclude short-duration training ln
skills for whlch a substantial demand can be antLeipated in many locations and
which can reaonably be expected to lead to employabLlity. given the
structure of the existing workforce and the character of the expected demand



23
for *kllse, it is unliely that any large portLon of the identified training
nees wlll be of the traditLonal technical/Lidustrial type  as indicated in
the precdig paragh, most will be likely in the servLie or coammrcial
areas. The project therfore will support the equLpping of selected tralning
institutLons which fulfil the 138 crlteria for the delivery of modular broad-
based mployment traiLnng for targeted client groups. The equipment propose
will include geric audLovisual and small computer equipment suitable for the
premtation and learning of any subject matter, including basdc PC
appllcations. Thre hundred sets of audiovioual equipment only, and 80 sets
of both audLovisual equipment and computers, would be made avaLlable to enable
the lntroduction of the new traLning materials ln locations currently wlthout
such qulpment. The TA team will assiat the FE8 with administratlve
prXoiere for leasing the equlpment to the traLning institutLons and will
thus eons  flexibility of resources during the early stages of the project.
LS&r of  oLal 2191MLOnI=
4.24  Suport to the 1(5 will include euipment and technical assistance to
support pilot programs ln selected oblasts (possibly Tversakaya, Smaolenkaya
and Bryanskaya) to test computerization of processing of pension benefits. In
contrast to the 738 program, this will involve some regional networking of
computers. Technical assistance will be given to assist the evaluation of
these pilot projects, with special reference to the design of future pension
adminstsration throughout the country. Assistance to staff training will also
be included.
4.25 TechnLcal assistance will also be given for work on reform of social
protection policies, for which the MinistrLes of Social Protection and Labor
share reponsibility. This includes assistance for reform of pension
policies, und for the design of targeted soclal assistance policies, including
means-testing.
Dai=on of a Modern Scial ecurLtv System
4.26 The thrust of the proposed project is to treat the administration of
pensions and uneployent benefits as entirely separate functions of
government, as indeed they are in Russia. Uven now, however, there are some
people for whom the same information - earnings during the last year -- is
requlred both to calculate unemployment benfits and pensLons. At present
work histories are retained ln the form of workbooks rather than computerized
trcords. pension contributLons and employment Lnsurance are made by employing
enterprises sLply in proportion to their payrolls, and no record Li
maLntained of the individual whose mployment led to the contribution. In the
long run, however, the computerLiztion of individual work records, and
national Contribution to the Pension and Imployment PundG, could potentLally
serve both purp oes. Xf eventually it is decLded to move to a more completely
funded pension system, rather than the present pay-as-you-go approach, then
lifetime contribution  will need to be recorded. Thli would reuire a fully
computerized national social security system that would let individuals change
jobs and places of residence quLte simply, swLtch between enterpriLs
employment and slf-employment, and even leave the labor force altogether for
a time. It may be valuable also for health lnsurance purposes.



24
4.27  Such an Literated social security system will probably not be
established in Russia for at least five years, and may well take longer. As
the separate syste  become increasingly ocputerized, howver, lt is
Lmportant to recognise their long-run need for compatibliLty and for a common
data base.  5he project therefore includes consulting services that will
explore the optlons for the master plan for such a syetem and its implicatLons
for investments ln hardwere. The study needs to make recomndations as to
phasing. On thLs basL lt will then be possible to deslgn the next stage in
much more detail, whlch could be used ln a successor project (described in
para 4.7 as "Phase 4").  purina  Lactiations gt was aereed that no work would
be undertaken under thisL eanonent until detailed terms of reference and cost
estimates have been aoreed between the 13S and MSP. and that the final troduct
would LngCrXore &ction-orientd reMndations 12are *.7(c 1            .
V.  PROJ3CM 00 E3 1Namcm- wGg.             AnD XKnPLNNNYA'!
Coat of the Projec
5.1   Mugu=  of Prolect gost.  Project costs are estimated at US$133.0
million equivalent and include prvision of computers and related material,
furniture and euipeent, publications and translationes specialist services
nd fellowshiLpi and recurrent costs for the project items shown ln Table 5.1
and further detailed in Annex 4.
Table §.ls    USUAY OF PROJUCT COSTS BY PROJECT 1TK
oi  SX of  Xof
----   itti----  Sase  foreign Local
Ll  Foreign Tottl  Cosa  Costa  Costs
ProJe  Cotrdnatienk tuni       15.0   1.4   16.4  12      9    91
fteff Training                  9.6   0.5   10.1   8      9    91
Beeits d Service Deivey         S.5  36.    44.3  34    s8    12
Labor Narkett Nwagent                  0.7    0.7   .5  100
Prori Services                         6.1    6.1    5   100
Labor PArkt Infortion Systs            1.7    1.7   1   100
hploytsft Trafning              1.7   8.8   10.5   8    84    16
4.ong-terl Desin                       0.6    0.6   .5
{tlarfee                       33.3          33.3  23          100
InMstuv of Social Protection
NISP Pilot                             7.1    7.1    5   100
Reffinuing PPF                         1.5    1.5    1
Totat bas csts              NU    AL   II    M i            4
Physicat contingencies
Price contfi°nfee I/        0.1   0.6    0.7    1    14    84
Totat Project Coats 2t         MU    OA   AU   11    11    49
1/ Contneces ae based en non-co"uter-related ept printing   plishin ad tratnfng totaling
about $18.0 millton
2 Costa do not Iruclds tthies ad ts.
5.2   A summary of project costs by category of expendlture is given in Table
5.2.



25
Table S. 2t  PROJWCT COSTS BY CATSGO   01 3UDZRw
-USSi Niton------           X      x ot
Local    Forela    Total      Forefgn  Total
COuterS, epument, books'
wid aeatI  owtorfals,
printing &W p. tashing  6.0      52.S       S.5       90       4
Consultants' svtces
fettewhips and trafnlfr  10.6    15.3      25.9        59     26
Adtntstrative Expens    15.0       -         15.0              11
Seltus         ,J                  -    -              74      25
?*to% Projlct costs  65.2     17.8                  51    100
5.3  Basis of Cost Estimates.  The costs for equipment and material have
ben baed on current prices. Both short and long-term technical assistance
costs have been estimated on the basis of recent fees paid and the high cost
of accommodation and subsistence in Russia. Th person-month costs for
specialists include housing, relocation costs, salaries, subsistence, office
servLces, fees, overhoads and recruitment costs. Base cost astimates reflect
pelcoe as projected for the time of negotiations (October 1992).
S.4  Custcms Duties and _axes. Project costs do not include any estimates
for taxes and duties as the loan would f$nance foreign exchange costs only.
It is assumed that equipment and goods imported directly for use by Government
mLnLstrLes are exempt from duties and taxes. Reimbursement for locally
procured goods and services under the loan would be made on the basis of 100%
of local expendltures (eo-factory cost) and 75% of local expenditures for
items procured locally. As there are no civil works in the project, physical
contingencies have been omitted.
5.5  ContL$nMgL A1lwgancs. Price contingencies between negotiations
(October 1992) and the end of project implementation are estimated at US$0.7
million eoulvalent, or about 3.9% of base costs for equipment (excluding
computers), books and publications, and trainLng (totaling about $18.0
million), consistent with international inflation estimates. Contingencies
are not included for Consultant Services since such services will be
negotiated on a contract basis early in project implementation. Project costs
and contingencies are estimated in US dollars only, since inflation rates of
the Ruble are difficult to forecast with any precision. Since the Government
budgets on a quarterly basis, periodic budgetary adjustment may be made should
shortfalls occur in counterpart financlng.
5. 6  For n EAn9     e 2M2g".  The foreign exchange component was
estimated as followas (a) computers and related oquipment - 100%; equipment -
100 %j (b) lnternational specialist services and fellowships - 100%. These
percntages have been determined by: (a) assuming that almost all equipment
would be imported; and (0) assuming that all project fLnanced specialists
would be foreign unless otherwise specified (e.g. interpreters). Including
contingencies, the resulting foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$67.8 million, or about 51% of total costs.



26
5.7  ZPr-S.ZnaMULB. The propoed Bank loan of US$70.0 mllion would
finance 100% of the foreign exchage campoent ad about 3% of the local costs
of the project. The Goveornme  would finapo  the balanc  of project costsp
including salaries and administrative aspens and local costs related to
services delivery. Project financing would be La accordance with Table 5.3.
tn order to pemit the FM to complete final quipment liets, to facilitate
the completion of appropriate technical asistanc  ageements, and to
facilitate the further development of project preration activities, a
Project Prtparation Facility (VW) of US$1.5 million has been granted to cover
the cost of office equipment and specialist services necssary for timely
project preparation. The PPP would be refinanced under the proposed loan.
Zsble 5.3: Financial Plan
- -U8     ^Million----
Government    Dank       Total
Computers, equipment,
books and educational
materials, printing
and publLshing             5.4       54.5         59.9
Consultants' services
fellowships &
tralning                    9.5      15.7         25.2
Administrative Ixpenses    15.0                    15.0
salaries                   ALA                    ALA
Total Project Costs :   M        70.         133.0
Manaaement and Xwlmonat1ln
5.8 Managont.j 8tructura. The majority of the components of proposed
project belong under the auspices of the Head of the FM. The day-to-day
operations would be implemented under the direction of the deosignated Deputy
Chairman, who is in turn accountable to the Head of the PFS. As described in
paragraph 4.9 above, a PCU (Annex 6) is to be estabilshed to dwvelop operating
guidelines following performance benchmarks already agreed, reporting
procedures, contract monitorLng and advising on prcuren ment proc dures.  The
PCU would facilitate coordination between the diffrent specialists hired on
both long- and short-term bases, assist in financial monitoring, and aid the
project beneficiaries ln their liaison with the Bank. Durina neootiations It
was anreed that the techanical assistan  aW              staff of the  CU
would be maintained throuahout the duration of the uroiect MIt?.d)   An
important objective of the PCU is to enhane the capacity of the IRS staff to
manage and coordinate an active employment srvice program. A timetable for
&n=ointment of a suffilient number of counternart staff was &WM"ed durina



27
neaotiations (Mara. 7.1fel1. Pilot activities and design, and program
evaluation in the MSP would fall under the direction of the Minister. Project
activities terms of references havo been completed and are being reviewed by
the FES with a view to requesting proposals prior to negotiations.
S.9 Manacement Punctions. The PCU would be responsible for project
management and coordination, as well as trouble shooting as problems arise in
the carrying out of the specific TA tasks, which would be triggered by the
failure to meet specified benchmarks (Annex 7). Given this set of functions,
the international consultants, skills should be largely in project management,
rather than the technical tasks being undertaken, since the latter expertise
lies mainly in the TA teams. There would be four persons, and each would
bring, beyond project management skills, a background or knowledge in
computerization, employment programs, training, and financial control matters
respectively. In addition, provision has been made for the short-term
services of a Procurement Specialist and for unidentified technical assistance
for troubleshooting and unforeseen activities. The four Russian counterparts
would be generalists with promise of being quickly trained in project
management techniques.
5.10 An overall operations schedule (Annex 7 would guide the implementation
of the project and facilitate the necessary coordination of tasks, monitoring
of progress as well as problem identification and resolution. Thus a key telk
of the PCU would be assist in implementing the project in accordance with the
schedule. The plan, in a form of a project wide chart, would be drawn from
the component terms of reference and the executed contracts' scope of work.
The Terms of Reference and the concluded technical assistance contracts would
clearly identify the tasks to be performedp the products to be delivered; set
out performance timetablesp and detail the basic administrative elements such
as reporting and procurement/fiduciary requirements. The Project
Implementation Schedule and the Project Execution Xanual (PER) contain the
overall key benchmarks, critical paths and other information through which
project progress could be tracked. Critical linkages and relationships
between the individual technical assistance efforts would be detailed therein.
agreement was reached durino neootiatiQna on the content of the Implementation
Schedule and Benchmarks U7.1 If) .
5.11 The PCU will directly strengthen project suprvlsion in several
respects. There would be a contractor reporting system with periodic
(monthly) technical assistance progress reports to the PCU which would forward
them to the Head of the FES. The report format would be designed by the PCU
and would relate to the Project Implementation Schedule. A monthly summary
report would highlight problems and issues, recommended actions, etc.
5.12 similarly, an FES reporting system with periodic (monthly) technical
assistance progress reports to the Bank (and other Russian authorities, as
appropriate) would also be established. These reports would be prepared by
the PCU on the basis of the contractors' progress reports noted above. There
would also be periodic F8S financial reports to the Bank based on the Bank's
existing requirements and procedures. 'The 1S technical assistance progress
reports to the Bank would identify and discuss the key policy issues and other
major problems which have surfaced in the contracting reports or otherwise



28
have been identified. As appropriate, the Bank can provide guidance or other
assistance, or take up matters under the ongoing policy dialogue.
5.13 A large number of computers are to be procured under the project and
installed at the 2,200 plus FES reglonal and local offices throughout Russia.
Computer delivery and installation arrangements would be included in the
bidding documents and would be the responsibility of the supplier, as would
maintenance arrangements. it was aareed at neontiations that the FRS shalls
(at furnish to the Bank not later than Mav 30. 1993, reaulations for the
distribution of comruters to individual FES field offices, and an
imniementation glan including criteria for the selection of such offices.
gceeptable to the Bank. and fbl carry out the distribution of comg uters and
re'ated eauiuMent in accordance with the imolementation plan J2ara. 7.1 (l).
S 14  Since the FES is expected to face rapidly increasing demand for services
due to unemployment, implementation is planned for 15 months. However, this
timetable is undoubtedly ambitious, and the project completion date has been
set at 21 months after start-up to provide for possible slippage. Activities
which are critical to meeting the project objectives includes (a) the Project
Coordination Unit (para. 4.09); (b) staff training coordination (para. 4.10);
(c) computerization for the delivery of employment services (para. 4.11); (d)
program planning, budgeting and financing control and employment service
management elements relating to labor market policies and management systems
(para. 4.12); (e) model local offices (para. 4.13) (with a possible
redirection of effort to designing system needs and supporting material.); (f)
mass layoff response capacity (para. 4.1S); and (f) public service employment
program (para. 4.16) (directed at developing a crash labor intensive public
job creation effort)   If necessary other TA and employment training
activities could be deferred. Areement was reached fAt neot iations that the
Borrower and the-Bank would carry out a mid-term evaluation-not-later than
October 31. 1993 to review oroaress and take remedial action to restructure
oroiect desian as necessarv foara. 7.lfhM.
ProcuSfmana
5.15 The project elements and their estimated costs, and the procurement
arrangements for the components to be financed by the Bank are summarized in
Table 5 4, Recurrent and other local costs financed by the Government are
shown under NB.F. (non-Bank financed).
5.16 All equipment and materials to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds
would be procured in accordance with the Bank's GuIdellnes for Procurement
under IERD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992). Russian manufacturers competing
under Xnternational Competitive Bidding (ICB) would receive a preference in
bid evaluation of 1S% of the CIF price or the prevailing custom duty
applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less, provided they can prove
that the value added to the product in Russia exceeds 20% of ex-factory bid
price. One of the requirements for the equipment contract would be that
before signing the contract the successful bidder shall arrange to be
represented by an agent in Russia equipped and able to carry out the
contractor's delivery, installation, maintenance, repair and spare
parts-stocking obligations.



29
5.17 Equipment and materials to be financed by the Bank will consist of
computer systems and peripherals, software systems, telecommunications, office
and classroom equipment, and training aids and related supplies. These will
be grouped in about 25 procurement packajes costing between US$10,000 and
15,000,000. Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost more than
US$250,000 equivalent each will be procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), using the Bank's sample bidding documents modified to suit the
requirements of individual project packages. For computer systems and large
software, a two-stage bidding procedure will be followed. Due to the
shortcomings of the local electronics and software industries, local bidders
for major contracts are not expected to be competitive. However, joint
ventures formed with international companies have a good chance of securing
several contracts and sub-contracts for software systems and computer
peripherals. Contracts for office and classroom equipment and supplies are
likely to be won by local suppliers. International shopping (IS) with at
least three quotations from three eligible countries will be used for
contracts estimated to cost less than US$250,000 with an aggregate limit of
US$3.0 million. These include: (i) acquisition, translation and printing and
publishing of books and training manuals for an aggregate value of US$2.2
million equivalent, and (ii) contracts for office, telecommunication and
classroom equipment and supplies and standard software, for an aggregate value
of US$0.8 million equivalent. Direct Contracting (DC) up to an aggregate
amount of US$1.6 million equivalent will be allowed for item of a proprietary
nature or items required to ensure compatibility with the already installed
equipment.
5.18 Consultancy assignments will involve both individual consultants, mostly
those hired for the PCU and the Staff Training Unit, and national employment
services. selection of consultants will be in accordance with the Guidellnes
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency (August 1981). As the FES does not have the experience and
capacity to provide many of the administrative and personal aspects of
standard compensation contracts for individual consultants, it is proposed
that their hiring be channelled through an international consulting firm.
There will be a total of about 20 assignments ranging from two person-months
to 50 person-months, the cost of individual assignments ranging from US$50,000
to US$2.0 million. For the consulting assignments and fellowships Involving
the national employment services, offers will be solicited from at least three
eligible countries having the requisite organization and experience.
Training services will be obtained mostly through consulting organizations
associated with the project. Local consultants with the requisite experience
and background are rare. Therefore, their participation in the project
assignments is expected to be low and limited to specialized areas, such as
translation.
5.19 Due to the centralization of procurement in the former Soviet Union, the
knowledge of the project implementation agencies in international commercial
practices and the Bank's procurement procedures is almost non-existent.
-Therefore, all procurement activities under the project will be coordinated by
the PCU, which will be assisted by a procurement consultant. To ensure
compliance with the Bank procurement guidelines, all contracts awarded through
ICB, as well as all consultant appointments and the first two contracts under



30
I8 and DC procedures will be subject to prior Bank review. These limits would
result in prior review of over 80 percent of total procurement. All other
contracts will be subject to selective ex-post review by the Bank. Important
milestones in procurement are shown in Annex 7.
5.20 Procurement for all items under the project would be carried out by the
respective beneficiaries (FES and MSP) shown in Table 5.4 below. Since this
is the firet project in the sector, three new staff members would be given
trainLng in procurement by ICB, through courses conducted by ILO. Consultants
would be retalned by the borrower under the PPF to provide assistance in
preparing and evaluating bids. The PCU would be staffed with a management
team competent to assist with bid preparation and evaluation, and the servLies
of a procurement specialist are included in the PCU for a porlod of two
months. World Bank mission consultants would be called upon to assist in
reviewing procurement documentation as part of regular supervision activities.
5.21 A Country Procurement Assessment Report has not yet been completed.
However, in the context of this project ther" is no local competitive bidding
and the Bank-financed portion of project expenditures would follow the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines.
S.22 To ensure the establishment of adequate management capacity from the
beginnLng of the project, loan effectvenes would be conditional uMon the
sLgning of a contract for emolovmet of technical assistance for the PCU and
the anDointment of aualified caunt-roart_taff within the PCU to work toaother
with the technical assistce I5para. 7.31.
5.23 The Project Implementation Schedule is indicated in Table 5.5, from
which the Estimated Disbursement Schedule has been derived.
5.24 Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)  prompt reporting of contract award information by the borrowers
(b)   comprehenaive quarterly reports to the Bank by the borrower
(assisted by consultants), indicating
(i)     revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the
total project, including best estimates of allowances for
price contingency;
(ii)    revised timing of procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time
for individual contractst and
(iii)   complianc, with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement.



31
Table      S    8umry of Proped Procurmet Arra                   nt
(U8$70.0 millLon eqivalent)aI
j-ct h st                                 0 '  --   fo 1t  N..o.d     Total
projet stIll'ot                             ICB             Other           Wl.B.F.I     Cost
1. F l IIplont sevice CFM)
1.1 csusi.o                                3.                                           37.0
37.0)                                        (3.0)
1.2  ospatr Librry nIt., vl                                 I.41                          1.6
(1.6)                        (1.6)
1.3 "lIS pntimn                                                              5.4         5.4
1.4 0th1w lWqi1nt                           5.5             0.6 6.3
(5.5)           (0.8)                        (6.3)
1.5 TelMflct Au st_s I
Foltewhips                                           12.Of                        12.0
(12.0)                       (12.0)
1.6 IntorprtattonTleatIn                                    1. 4                         1.4
(1.4)                        (1.4)
1.7   MIoW4In                                               2.2W        t                2.2
(2.2)                        (2.2)
1.0 Traininr                                                0.9W             9.2         10.1
(0.9)                        (0.9)
1.9 Iniwetrative Expuse                                                     15.0         15.0
1.10 Slaries                                                                33.3        33.3
Subtottt                                     42.5            18.9             63.0        124.4
(42.5)          (18.9)                       (61.5)
2. Ilistry of So0ia Protection (NIP)
2.1 CeuA.                                   6.0                                           6.0
(6.0)                                        (6.0)
2.2 CoqpUter Library hterial                                0.02w                        0.0
(0.02)                       (0.0)
2.3 TechnIcal  sfstane A
nd FeltwAhips                                        1.1/                         1.1
(1.1)                        (1.1)
2.4 Trainvng                                                0.1Wy                        0.1
(0.1)                        (0.1)
btet.l                                      6.0             1.1                           7.1
(6.0)           1.1)                         (7.1)
3. Nlsellwtwa
3.1  fldfnencing PPF                                        1.5                           1.5
(1.5)                        (1.5)
ownetat                                                       1.5                          1.5
(1.5)                        (1.5)
TOTAL                                        48.5            21.5             63.0       133.0
(48.5)         (21.5)                        (70.0)
£1  Figres in parentheses are tte respective amount  financed by the Bank
loan.
W     oIn-Elank fiwAnced.
i/ US$1.6 million will be procured through Direct Contract.
Si/    mall item    of equipment, trawlation and printLng services valued at
about US$3.0 milion would be procure  through International Shopping.
k/   Consltants would be appointed followlig Bank Quidelies.



32
TUB PRoJ3CT IIneIeITATION scUHU
ZAbls.5t  Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US $70.0 million equivalent)
Project Quarter                 total
Project Elmnt    Pro-Project         1        2       3        4         5      Pamnt   Rmrks
L,m-T1
SlgEffec/Close Dec. 1992, Jan. 1993                                         Apr. 199S
1. CttorIS                 0.4  11.3    12.2        11.8      7.3       43.0    IIB
Preulitficatfn   ..o...o..
/Awd                .. o 
Delivery
Site Prepration                              -
Law-Term Plan
Plavdre                                               _      _
Nardware Specs.
"Satnm Dev't.                                             Y
Prototype Hardware                                            xxx
2.  Coeputer Libraries                     0.8    0.8                              1.6    Direct
-                                              Uwpps
3. NIS Preparation                  1.1    1.1   .0          .1.1       1.1        5.4
4. Equdpment (Tr.ttl.)                             2.6 2.6                         5.1    ICB
Bid/Award/dslivery                                 _
Office equpip t & .tt.                  0.1     O.S                            0.?    is
5. Technical Assistance xxxx       2.1     2.6    2.8         2.8       2.7       13.1    Coel.t@  TOt
Afellewohips                                    _                                    RFP Issued
9/92
6.  transLatfons                           0.4    0.4         0.4       0.4        1.4    Local
_                                        Zbusul~~~~~~~~~Cewtants
7. Printing e,d Publishing  xx             O.S    0.5         0.5       0.5        2.0    IS
____WtJMH  __    IFKWwi
S. Training                        2.3     2.2    1.9         1.9       1.9       10.1    IS
9. Adwfnistrotiv Expenses         3.0     3.0    3.0        3.0        3.0       15.0
Salaries                           6.7     6.7    6.7         6.7       6.7       33.3
Refitancing PPF                    1.5                                             1.S
TOTALS             11.53          17.0   28.6   32.4        30.7      23.5       132.3
Contfngncis                        0.1    0.1      0.1       0.1        0.1        0.7
11.5]         (17.2) (28.7)   (32.6)    (30.9)    (23.6)    (133.0)
Bank-Financed                      4.9   16.1    19.9        18.2      11.0       70.0
S.25    tatus of Prelaration.  This project is in a state of preparation which
would permit timely implementation because:   (a) 80%  of the technical
assistance packages have been fully defined, draft term    of reference ar
prepared and draft requests for proposals are being reviewed by the Bank;
(requests for piopouals are expected to be invited by the end of October
1992)1 (b) specialized consultants are preparing bidding documents for



33
procurment of computers and related materlal under the PPl' and (C) all
equlpmnt lsats with bld specifliatlons for the trainlng component will be
prepared in parallel with development of criteria for trailnng instLtutions.
Project completlon would be October 31, 1994, and the Closing Date would be
Aprll 30, 1995.
5.26 21§br mtn-.  The proposed project would be dlibursed over a perlod
of about 27 months. As the project proposed herein Ls the first livestment
project to Russia, no disbursement profile exLts. Moreover, the
Implementation period is considerably shorter than more traditional Bank
investments. Consequently, the standard country-wide dliburement proflle
does not apply to thli operation. Disbursements would be made againsts
(a) computer and computer library materials, equlpment and printing -
100% of forelgn expendltures for directly imported ltem and 100% of
local expeadltures (ex-factory) for ltems manufactured locally  nd
75% of local expenditures for other item procured locally;
(b) technical assistance, fellowships, translations and tralning -
100*.  Dlsbursements from the proposed loan are expected to take plac
on an average of about three months after incurring the expenditure.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by Aprl 1994, and
(d) reflnancing Project Preparatioa Facility.
S.,7 For expendltures relating to fellowships and contracts for goods each
valued at less than U8S50,000 equivalent, reimbursements would be made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements for all other ltems
would be made against full documentation. Documentation supportLng the 80s
will be kept by the PUS and NSP and be made avaLlable for review by Bank
mlssions. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Goverment would
establish, maintain and operate, undor torm and conditlons satisfactory to
the Bank, a US dollar SpecLal Account in the Optimum Bank of Moscow. The
authorized allocation to the Speclal Account is US$5.0 million representlng
estimated average expenditure to be pald from the Special Account ovwer a
four-month period. Applications for replenihment of the SpecLal Account
should be submitted monthly or whenever the account is drown down by about S0%
of the lnltial deposit, whichever occurs first. Replenishment applications
would be upported by appropriate documentation.
5.28  Accounts and Audits. The PYS would maintaLn separate accounts for the
project and would prepare quarterly descriptive and financial reports,
beginnlig from February 1993. Project accounts lncluding the Special Account
(para. 5.27) would be audited in accordance with the March 1982 Bank
Guldellnes for Flnanclal Reportlng and Audltlzg of Projects Flnanced br the
World Bank (March 1982). The Bank would be provided within six months of the
end of each fiscal year w$th an audit report of such scope and detail as the
Bank may reasonably request, lncluding a separate opinion by the auditor on
disbursements against a certified statement of expenditures.



34
VI. 3331!Y  AD RI8SK
6.1  mnSSIU. ay providing the ncssary equipmnt and training ad by
ngthg the managment of the  8, the poject wold help creto the
capacity to provide timely support for the anticipted large nmber of
unemploye in the short-tm, and in the longer-term would aS*ist d.vl.pmat
of a moder wide range of laor arket policel  supporting the estructurlg
of Russiaos economy* and a computeried social secuity system.
6.2  IiuI. The main risk la that the project timetable, which is
ambitious, will be delayed. This risk is partally mLtigated by the otrog
tet of the 13S and MP personnel involved, and by the political and
social pressure on the employment se"ices that may be expected "
unemploymet grows. In any c"a, the urgency of the ned does not permit a
more relaxed timetable. A second risk is that organizational change may
weaken  ffectiveness or reduce receptivity to foreign advice.  t" riSk iB
acceptable since the 13  hs recently ben given an             mandate ad
clear authority to accelerate decision-making. A third risk is that loCal
authorities will proceed so independently of the oentral J88 aNd 3MP that the
adoption of the project s iproveents wlll not proc"ed. Ths risk wll be
addreseOd by emphasiLing local consultation (offorts to date to involve local
offices initiated through bllateral donors and continued under tho iPM are
already paylag dividends) and staff training, which will be stre ngth d under
the project. Moreover, local offices will be requred to meet crlteria, still
to be determined (para. 5.13), to be eligible to eceive computers and
equipment.
6.3  .&I XmaonaaLcZtnik. There are no environmental issues deriving from
this project which has been classified as category 'C'.
A.~ ~ ~~Vz
a.   kareyments Reached
7*1   at negotiations the following aremnts wer reached
(a) a detailed terms of reference for labor market informatlon systems
would be prepard unde the WIand agreed betwee the  l and the
Bank (para. 4.20);
(b)  proculr  et of training quipment would co_nce only after
detaleod crlteria for seletion of training institution  and
courses have bee approved by the Dank (para. 4.22)s
(c) no work would be undertaken under the design of a modern socill
security systm until detailod tems of referece and cost
estimates have been agreed between the o8 and M5P (para. 4.28)1



35
(d) consultant and counterpart staff of the PCU would be maintanead
for the duration of the project (para. 5.6)1
(e) a timetable for appointment of a suff¢icent number of counterpart
staff (para. 5.8);
(f) the content of the Implementation Schedule and Denhbmarks (para.
5.10); 
(g)  the ES shall:  (i) furnish to tho Bank not later than May 30,
1993, regulations for the distribution of computers to ldividual
VM8 field offices, an Implementation plan including crlteria for
the selection of such offices, acceptable to the Dank, and (iL)
carry out the distribution of computers and related equipment in
accordance with the implementation plan (para. 5.13);
(h) a mid-term evaluation would be carried out not later than October
31, 1993 (para. 5.14).
7.2  Conditions of effectiveness would include the signing of a contract for
employment of technical assistance for the PCU and appointed qualified staff
within the PCUl to work together with the technical assistance (para. 5 22).
3.    necommendatiL
7.4 The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bsank loan of
US$70.0 million equivalent to the Government of the Russian Federation.



36
x 1
am          am              iwo 19i0 1?       It                                 1, W
41                                  Notes Finl    Meal    Fems        at_es ft ate t ales   ea_te"   ftts  roates
In a     InU    n S    fn tk   In 1n   _m   Omthe     n thIsme   Om Yn  ftkn In thn  In thas
TotaL                          100.0    48.$  S1.?   25,776 21,600   31,23  34,314   32,503  35,138   31,707 33,92r
IndLtry                        3.1     52.7  47.3   10,310  9,196    11,439  11,106    11,99  11,105    11,456  10.27S
Agricltuto                     8.2    60.2  39.8    2,997  2,#          3J,295  2,402    3.462  2.367    3,256   2,155
iWtviwtture                    0.4    81.4    6.6        26        *      223      5?        24      54       192      44
Cauutrsmtlen                  11.6    74.2  H.8    I8'm5   1,14         4,734   1,974    4,875   1,901      5,760   1,98
troWPort                       7.5    75.5  24.5    3,495   1,230    4,53    1,518        4,750   1.578     3,736   1.211
Ccuirdeiotn                    1.4    29.6   70.4        221    572        2?9    d8        281    694        263    62?
Tre, n"Ouromst, .1uatelat &
Teu_isal, o tae, a Stwcr       8.5    20.0  80.0         "99  3,518    1,119  4,469       1,2C8  4,539      1,118  4,4J3
Infar tios & Cate. 3vleos   0.3    18.2  81.8                  -           35      64        34      89        32    144
Odber ofbtofatPreidut1o n   1.5    U2.?  4?.)              *       *       300    4         441     456       514    461
N-qsl ad   rdaeolpal    meY  4.6    47.4  52.6           Ws   1,030      1,2I5   1.462    1,360   1,5m      1,632  1,508
Pdt1c beatth                   6.0    17.2  82.          360  2.51?        516  2,82        5J5  3.011        674  3,248
Oftat1on                       6.7    21.5  78.5    1,05   3.403         1,039   .7m       1,052  4,06?      1,281   4,458
oultte                         1.J    25.4   74.*                  *       174    5*         170    582       220    65s
Art                            0.4    44.6  553         2nS       -* 46            130       107    131        111    13J
Soe                            4.4    40.1   51.9    1,1J0  1,115        1,564  1,606      1,532   1,676     1,402   1,515
eJCgs4iS    nd PMitle  ssntuwA   0.6    96    0.                 200        49    35          43    354        38    358
Ptlco and SeesMce    _g        1.3    32.6  67.4         29      486       396 M    f        397    96a2       M82    52
Sourcees Suslu      _ Gs *s qat ot1tol ywtrheak RatI1nal  _wuro   of amis cs 1970 Onm IWO_.



37
EX2
Rsian Fedation
Table I-St Ofstributie of tlom t by raTw of Orglttioa ad by Srtor
1985    196    1987      t 1968    1     1990    1991
(In lilotln)
State enteprise                            60.2    0.6    4.5    67.9    6.7    61.3    56.8
Cooperativos for prodection & servies                         0.1     0.4     1.8      2.6     2.7
Cmierr cooprative                            1.5     1.5    1.        1.6     1.5      1.5     1.5
tessed enterris  2/                                                                    2.8     5.1
Joint stock coptees 2/                                                                 0.2     0.8
Joint ventures                                                                         0.1     0.1
Kolkhhoe                                     4.S     4.4      4.3     4.1     4.1      4.0     3.9
Private enterprwces                          0.7     0.7      0.8     1.0     1.1      1.2     1.7
ote r2.                                                                                0.8     1.0
Total                                  74.9    75.2    75.2    75.0    75.2    74.5    73.6
(in pent)
Stete eterprises                           -91.1    91.2    91.1    90.5    s.?    82.3    77.2
Cooperatives for prodwctfon £ servfces                        0.1     0.5     2.4      3.5     3.7
comsuar cooperatives                         2.0     2.0      2.0     2.1     2.0      2.0     2.0
Lese   ntrprises 2/                                                                    3.8     6.9
Jofnt stock copenes 2/                                                                 0.3     1.1
Joint VWenturs                                                                         0.1     0.1
Kolkhoats                                    6.0     5.9      5.7     S.5     5.5      5.4     5.3
Private enterprices                          0.9     0.9      1.1     1.3     1.5      1.6     2.3
onhers2                                                                                1.1     1.4
(in percent)
Eaplptuent by Sector
Motorait                                  74.2    73.8    73.2    72.6    72.2    72.0
Induastry and construction              41.8    41.8    41.8    42.6    43.0    42.8
Agrieclture and forestry                 14.3    14.0    13.8    13.S    13.4    13.4
Transport and cr_nfsatifn                9.8      9.?     9.3     8.4      7.9     7.9
Trad end other aterial service           8.3      8.3     6.3     8.1      7.9     7.9
Non-raterfla                              25.8    26.2    26.8   2V.4     27.8    28.0
Scence, edimation, hestthesre, & culture   17.9    18.3    18.5    0.2    19S3   19.5
Gownwmt                                  2.4      2.4     2.4     2.4      2.3     2.3
Nmicipal and
other nonaeteriet soervices             5.5      5.3     5.9     6.0      6.2     6.2
Sourcest ussian Federation Gcokosktt.
1/ Provisioel
2/ Untfl 1990. the avale statstices de not soperate this catoory from th stat enterprise
category, implying that the sie, of th   tte  is slihtly oerstated.



38
ANX 3
Page 1 of 4
EYPLMO'ENT SERVICES AND SQCAL PROTE9TION PROJECT
Descriution of the System of Unemployment and Related Benefits
1.    Throughout most of the Soviet period, it was illegal for individuals to
be simply 'unemployed". This situation has changed in response to emerging
realities, and since mid-1991, a system of providing for the unemployed has
been evolving. This annex describes the system as it stands, highlighting the
major problems.
2.    Responsibility for unemployment and related benefits lies with the
Employment Fund, which came into operation in July 1991, as defined by the
Employment Law. It effectively operates as an extra-budgetary fund, which is
used to finance and is managed by the Federal Employment Service.
Reynue and Exenditure
3.   The Employment Fund has two primary sources of revenue: (i) 1X employer
payroll contribution from all enterprises; and (ii) budgetary transfers. In
addition, the Fund may receive voluntary donations.
4.    Contributions are collected at the local (rayon) level. Of each 100
rubles collected, the rayon is to keep 45 and transfer 55 upward, where the
oblast keeps 45 rubles, and transfers the remaining 10 rubles to the centre,
to the Federal Employment Service. In practice however, neither the collection
of contributions nor their transmission upwards is wholly reliable.
S.    In 1991, the Fund recieved R 2.1 bn. from contributions, and a R 1 bn.
budgetary transfer. Given low levels of unemployment, at the beginning of
1992, the Fund had a positive balance of R 1.5 bn. This is unlikely to
continue, however, as the projections in Table 1 demonstrate (Rutkowski July
1992). This is discussed further below.
Zl1blit
6.    Under the EmloyMMent Law 1991 eligibility depends on satisfying two
requirements: (a) at least 12 weeks work in the previous year, and (b) an
actively seeking work test. In practice, benefits are paid upon satisfaction
of (b) alone, and new entrants, for example, do receive benefits. The
legislation is unclear with respect to the position of individuals who quit
voluntarily, or dismissed for disciplinary reasons.
7.    Benefits are paid for a limited duration only: 12 months, plus an
additional week of benefits for every year worked over 25. Benefits are
withdrawn if recipients refuse two appropriate job offers, although they are
still able to use the Employment Service as a source of job information.



39
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
Befit 
8.    Benefits are generally paid on an earnings-related basis, which involves
extremely complex methods of calculation. The rates vary over the 12 months as
follows:
(i)  During months 1-3 - the benefit is 751 of the individual's average
wage over the previous year;
(ii) 60X of the same between months 3-7; and
(ili) falling to 451 for the last 4 months.
9.    In addition, there is a minimum benefit, equal to the minimum wage, for
individuals from low wage backgrounds or less than one year of service. The
minimum benefit is incroased quarterly in line with general price changes.
10.   Ironically, in practice, virtually all recipients have been receiving no
more than the minimum benefit. This is due to the absence of indexation for
earnings related benefits in a high inflation context which renders last
year's nominal earnings virtually worthless. Moreover, there is real concern
that the benefits paid are too low - probably only about 252 of the average
wage at the present time.
11.  Supplements are paid to unemployment benefits in the following
circumstances:
(i)   Training - a scholarship at the rate of of 751 of the individual's
previous wage is paid for the duration of the course for those with at least
one year's service. Otherwiso participants receive a scholarship equal to the
minimum wage.
(ii) Dependents - Each dependent raises an individual's benefit by 101,
up to 1001 of their previous wage.
g^iitratLve Arn      t
12. The Federal Employment Fund is managed by the Federal Employment
Service. It has no separate Board or existence on its own (unlike, e.g., the
Pension Fund). The MES replaced the Bmployment Committee by virtue of a
Presidential decree on June 14, 1992. At this time, the link with the Ministry
of Labour was also broken. The FES is a separate ministr-level agency
responslble for providing overall leadership, policy direction and management
to the national system of emloyment offices and services. There are some 88
oblast Employment Service organisations and 2,121 rayon employment centres (at
the local level). The latter deliver the mandated programmes directly to the
citizes, e.g. registration for work and benefits.



40
Page 3 of 4
13.   The FES itself has only 80 staff at the centre, which is intended to
expand to 225 in the near future. The total number of staff at the oblast and
rayon level is approximately 14,600. The current capacity of the service to
cope with the projected unemployment crisis is doubtful. It must, in a
relatively short period of time, develop the whole range of policies,
programmes and procedures and administrative systems needed to support the
transition from a command economy. The project aims to provide technical and
financial support to the employment services in priority areas to help enable
a successful response to this challenge.
14.   Every applicant has a Work Book, into which the enterprise copies (by
hand) the individual's work record. This Work Book is the basis upon which
maximum duration of benefit is calculated by the Employment Office, down to
the last day.
Problems with Current System
15.   The system of financing is cowrletely unsatisfactory, the major flaws
being:
(i)   The inverse relationship between revenue and expenditure needs, so
that there is real concern that the Fund will not be able to finance benefits
in the face of predicted rapidly rising levels of unemployment.
(ii) Lack of capacity to shift public resources from oblasts with low
unemployment (higher revenues and expenditure demands), to those oblasts with
high unemployment. The central Fund is too small to permit such a
redistribution of resources.
(iii) Proactive programmes, which are financed from the same Fund, are
likely to suffer cutbacks just as the need for such activities increases.
(iv) Poor compliance by employers and local authorities with the law,
which further weakens the ability of the FES to assist areas of high
unemployment.
(v)   The method of calculating benefits is timeconsuming and ultimately
pointless in the present circumstances of high inflation, as everyone ends up
receLving virtually the same benefit. The present approach is also
administratively unfeasible in the face of a rapid expansion of unemployment.
Reform Proposals
16.  These problems are recognised by the FES and the Medium Term Reform
Programm, and at least partially by others. The Medium Term Reform Programme



41
ANM
Page 4 of 4.
does see the need to integrate both unemployment compensation and aetive
employment policies into the budget.
17.   One proposed amendment to the existing legislation would allow the
temporary use of flat rate benefits at two levels, linked to the mirmum wage.
The upper level would apply to applicants who have lost their jobs, and only
paid for six months. However, the Supreme Soviet is not sympathetic to the
two-tier proposal. There is also resistance on the part of the trade unions.
18.   Another possibility is to divert part of the large surpluses being
generated by the Pension Fund (which collects a 32% payroll tax plus
penalties), to the payment of unemployment benefits. This was suggested in the
Medium Term Reform Programme. But it would be difficult politically.



Am=E 4
page I of 4
42
*            _t~Awf
o  _  ~no$w  aFI ast4         t
mm~w   -   -  ocn&eoowus.30
Total      of  l of  * ot
*tt          0m                  *"n "                Ttl  Bse"    Du e       w. f Loca
' tlt  CO"    M.    -1       a       a      2     4       s  Uost   Codte   osts Cost. Costs
1.  1a    1 CoOuII?W 16425  1S                                                                                                 9%  91%
aeutiue Sewvic
foieet 1%. i eotor                 4       300  3.3              s0 o0         0    10       10    3s0
93o,. Plantg BSwtl                 */W   30o  1.31               so    10    10    10        so   230
tiaauoial not. impot               0/le   300  1.21              so    10    10    S0O1   310
n<puo  $"todw axorLoh"                                           .so    so    is             so    2soo 5
Cmuelvtmeipet               l      6Veer  30    .110    10J   30  50                         10    3*0 °
woauwsu_t    ort                  /Itmh      #      3            10                                  0
Spe. Services/ Txbl -o,,tla# a/math   as    is 7U    is    71    71 7n    I71
adainttrativo. trael etc.         lumwm 1S1         1          3000  300  3400   3000   3000  11000                            100%
Sbtoal                  $322  33S   371  337    327s  16431
2.  SaU"         0                                                                                            10104   7.9%      9%  91%
Consulting Siorc
Oletme uNsnamut imeWt            */Math   as        6            In    71    so                    200
0o1eral 8t  IrS. oert             a/ath   as                     7#s   Ts                           1SO
?T9. aUds/Audio Via1l ibtt   5/Ustb          3      4            71    31                           100
hr. specialiste eta. (311         Ip_   414         1   414                                        41
Stal f Sg. program                &W      SO10      1          11t    it40  110  IIG  1II6 so    woo                          100
Tralaing Coster                   f.Ma  3*00        1           760   740   740   I60    740   3000                            100%
Subtotal          414   141  3Mi  170  1120   1920  10104
3.  ZMft6Ct DKLIV    Of BMLOI44647  33.9%   66%  12*
User 8staf  Trlaing rO t.         1 _u   300        1           300                                300
User ?rno. 8". e      Counr-wid    ne.   100        2           1      I0 1O                       S00
toe    1cal staff  taUiig
VW  VAtf                             go.    10    13             40    40                          120                    20%  60%
obleats                              we.      3    *0            s0    so                           160                   20%  60%
xlule tatiofl tceaew
Aseistoace (PM                    lumpoum  114      1   114                                         114
initial CO.utlit tioa            1mpsom  350        1   210                                        250
Nis PragrttoFn                    Lumpsm, 5430      1          106   to1   1004  104   1066   1420                        19%  S1*
subtota           344  1674  1374  1064  10*4   1064   6664
ter Lpllcattan - Emetlon
uardwae a Speco.Aperts             e/ler  280       1            10    10    *°    10              300
User-Data Proess L      tAalm      c/veer  300      1            10      0    10    10             200
technia uterace t.bav (go    M.               0     I            30                 10
Too. aet. Wbrrlee (OblteW            go.    20    80 .00   080                                     1400
Uquu t (o) 3.   143                                 1   142                                         142
Sbtotl            143   330  son    100   tO0                162
Squipst
Computers                            no.  1S6o      6                4673 11632 11S33   a64  14600
Preparation of SIte/Vctlitie  1 _a  Mc00            1          400   400   400                    1200                    30%  70%
V2 MChtn                             g0.    I      1             1                                   I
C_npter Supile. a Nie.            iemsm      30     I                   30                          t0
Subtot                   401  19  13332 11632   6344  34031               27.2%
4. n3 UBpa rU   OLct mN
_muoiwt nT8m                                                                                             723 0.55%  100l  0%
Prgo    mi         uti   a
Stet GaatZl
Coasultant Sevitc
Progm. rim 4 suftet
Poulataon                       s/mtb    31       4            71    3                           140
tistnoa   Cat.rol/Agt.tnSm.
stwoo.                          s/Math   a1       4            75    21                          tOO
Sullosuhi  (1 x mths)             /asath            I 3                                             la
hnsoamt $txengtheafl  (9"9    t _)1         1t1     I t O                                          110
Statft  3
SuoAtal            t1O   143    s0                           22



ANNX 4
PaGe 2 of 4
43
tantinu*a ~   ~        ~        ~        -t
fteo_vN zvaluatloa 0  0  000o)
atal  l et  *2 at        t
It                                  en tsotl                      fap.  V1 rt
nt    Ct   Se.   -z        1        2     3     4       5 Cts  Css t atT   Costs Co
4.  118 2.2CR 148? POIO  AMP1
(contInued)
Research.BSaliaatin4 SuliC
.2.b Ve%., ltch$ilon  a
Plemet expert                 46"th   as        3                       75                    75
Itesting * Counselling Ixpert    slads"    35     3                        vs                   Ts
Pvaroga  "signa hiw.t           s/moth   as       3                       71                   i
Felloehipe (M2 mont"  a.)    *             1      2                        24                   24
subtotal                             324                  324
~lIoat 8ervc  Oversigt
maement CpeitY
sultnt sorvee
ploWeat Service 1St. mprt  *lmth   as            3                 75                          75
Fellowship (1 x 3 mwths)        shouth   12       1                 12                          12
St.af: 2
Subtotal                       01 
PUS NOW   2tK ,3RVIU                                                                                 6136   4.6   1004   04
5.1 Model Loa IUplOV1t Office
Consutiag services
Team Ladr                       s/mnth   21       6           i1    75                         1S0
.Tob Placemento VAtchin
Dvloent expert                  s*ontb  2S        6           T5    71                         110
Progrem Savic  to clients
- Proactive bprt b/smith   21                     6           75    75                         Is5
Pentts Ilglbility
Ptoesetna gPmsntexpert    s/mot    aS             6          71    71                          150
eneal Systems Rprt - gea
Contribution Requirents         *1ash  a2s        4           75    7S                         1SO
Docuentation-MaOel Import
V/Staft Ttaining lXdes   Sdills  hsuth  2#        5           71    71                        10
lellcwehipe (2x2)               s/Month   12      234                                           24
Subtotal                410   474                         *24
Oevt.ot SuPr/_Of5t  Asst.4
Relp to  .1lt job mar   idoe
Consulting servtoe
Specialt                        eiuth   21        3                       TS                    75
Subtota                               75                   75
1.2 LOW-?*= System -     t.
Lon-4.au Plan Plantni mSpeellits
(s persons 4 me.)             s/mOt    as    30                          0   121    m       100
1arw&ar Spcfitcaten  0erts
(2 persons, I months)         aAmoth   21   iS                         1S0   1N0    11O    450
S8stems Deveopt ImOrlts
(10 persons, 5 month)           S/mont    as                             1e   75       7     20
Sbtot                                 s0  1031   12m   2s10
gqipomt
Protatlw, Mu*ar    uumnt
Owt. a  Testin                                                                      lo 1w00  1    1000
subtotl                                        1000   1000
1.3 Man eoff ResOnSe Capacity
Consultant Sevice
Rapid Respons Unt  _ner         o/month   21      2           71  * 
Rapid Respon"  unit Propeo.  s/mon"    35  n                  is                                75
Doeset lxprt                    eawth   31        2           T5                                71
11e12wolp Oversea (131 motf) sImUtb   1           I           12                                12
IMp . aiuatmt Spes (gm   1an    3s                1    a                                        as
Sttts S
St""               3sn  3                                 243



AM= 4
Fa8ge3 of 4
44'j
UPta4IW   SMICES mm SOCIL  Coft8O  P5090
"eject **St astlate
(Wood)
Total  * ot  *o       fO
Volt          PIP               Onahtet              Totual  Sae   hf,  otr.  &00a1
'nit   oeat  so.    -i       1       3      3      4      5 Cosot s oet   Costs Caste  CMte
F8S     Am  avtas
(continuedS
5.4 PublQ S       e hpolqomnt Progrm
Consultant 8azvila
TeaOM tad/Proarem  t.             /4wntb   21       4            21    7S                          100
Progm S_o./progrm  ap.           a/sMath   21       4            S     75S                         100
Procedure  DOM. 804_-            a/month   25       *            21    71                          *00
Staff Trg. Materiale lrpest      a/month   25       4            2S    75                          100
Uplnt/Publlo Na. pOD. (DM    lulm) ua    21         1    21                                         2s
staff 6
subotal            25   100   300                            425
5.1 Speial Acetats    e   to
metlmonly teonmiclly
levatated aream - Pilot
onultant Service                 lampum   100       1   ,             121   121   125    125    *00
SubtotAl                     125   12S   121    125    500
TLAM  MRl? INFOPlOM     S?SfM                                                                            t1os   1.45  loO1  o0
6.1   ccupatioa   Mallet. 4 Claoelifcation
a Local Lebor Martet InfoMatian
Consultant Servcee
DEerto (2z6 mo.)                 a/onth   25        a                  so   uo5                    200
lellabshipa (2 X 2 me.)          lumptum   12       2                         24                    24
Staffs 2
Subtotal                         $0   174                    224
6.2 Labor Markt MoitoorlN/Su
Conultint se.vi8ce
Surve_                            lumpem  1000      1           200   200   200   200    200   1000
VellwhlSp  (2 s a MoD.)          a/lonth   12       2                         24                    24
N/Sold 04"ey\fGou  Mtg.  P)  lumpaum    60          1    60                                         6O
Stafts 2
Subtotal           60   200   200   224   200    200   104
SquuMet
OffiSc  Iquuimt and Matertal fSt
115 offices                    lampm   so0        1                        100                   S00
Subtotal                               100                   100
7.  SuKOYND    YUXM                                                                                           10014   9.25   a25  195
Tra        Program
onsultat Swice
Policy Teen
Tgg. Picy a v#t.qps./Tym  Lea  s/year  200           1                  so    s0    50       S0    200
nt    a Contracting Spotalint  s/year  200          1                  S0    So    S0        s0    200
PtrgaS Team
Ault Traing Spec._-esm Leadere/yraz    200           1                 S0    S0    s0        S0    200
Occup ^ai   AalJalseiAbor Varke
survey SpeiaSlist              a/yea    200       1                  50  '       -50      so    200
Progam Develoment Spe1iailst   a/year  200          3                  150   150   150    150    600
Traini   waterial. troduwtIon Sp s/yser  200         1                  s0    10    10       S0    200
Tranin  of Traine  SPaci8alt *amth   25             6                         7S    71              1S0
allowlipasI
Training Policr  Mat)             a/month   12       2                               12      12      24
Piacl Q Coatraaln  Prcaduree(4oa/onth   12          4                   1S    12    12       12     40
TrainingProgrm   (61)             ae/IAth   12       6                  12    12    24       24     72                    25   755
Statf
T5slatione/tocal Conbultants  1UM_M   3.5   400                        S50   350   350    *50   1400                           l005
TSaig Ptos. Secialist (PM   lump..m   71             1    75                                        75
Carricla Oevellmeat (PM           tumpsai  245       1   241                                        245
Staff
Subtotal          320           774    49   973    796   3614
Squi_p t (se  tootnote.)
Pully elSped locationS               lb.    45    so                        100  is00             3400
Minz ialy equvpd lationS            uSo.      5   300                        710   n1             1SO0
priting/ublioatins                 1p_m       1  2000 So00  S10    SOO    50    2000                                      705  305
Office equpmet                    lumpaun          100                 t00                          100
SuwbtOtl                        600  3050  3010    500   7200



ASE 4
45                                                       Page 4 of 4
wwmw  smtcu mm SOIALme o                     =
UP0!3U  izaVimAS   D 800121. P013ZW13080
970360  oat Sstlu44s
(U8#000)
atai  %Oot   Oaf    aof
*nit           999m               Qurters              Yatal  ea"    8a.  Sar.  Locl
oult   COst  go.    -1        1        2      3     4           ostst  s costs  **$t. C0to  Coats
S.  N1a6Y0f ay 800ct1 mS@N0TZ                                                                                     7120    S.40   100%   O%
Cansi4ta&% 8*4,3*05
8.   x*Asnw*/0t so so r     ust       01ca   s.o*        Io so                     s       o      se
Kalva eSttwx  8p.lliet              sI,wr  200        1                   50    50    50        50     200
Date/eado/Operatis S"stm
- Installation 8wc15t               yee.r  200        1             0    so    50    50         so     20O
- Ya1ea_iaaicatioas Specialist s/Math    25           4             0                   75      75     150
Benfitt aetin.  pecnlst            */Math    25       4             0                   75      75     150
B_nfit Volley
*e"lallst (2 x 7 sos.)            /*Math   2s        14             0            50   150      150    350
sahtotal                    0   100   150   400    400   1050
CoNvaters                             go.      6   00oo                 4000                          e000
Aeforonce LIbrares                    go.      4      5                   20                            20
subtotal                        4020                          6020
Tralniao
Iudtildi4e  (2 fru  each Oblast)
4 tfm3a4%tuxt*n                       go.    10       S            s0                                   s0                         10051
subtotal                   s0                                   50
9.  1O3-'fl      ma  OF a1 £WN     5002                                                                                  0.00%   100ooo   0%
ssa mst
Stft                               Lwa_sv   400      1                  200   200   200               *00     400
subtotal                      200   200   200               600
Subtotal           1100  8064 21916 257S2 240*4  16041  9ass7  89697             0
10. Salas"                             1.00W5553300        1         4460  4660  6660  6460   4660  33300                25.2%      0%  100%
Total Rass Costs                                          1o0  11114 UPS 32442 3074   23501 132267 132287    100%
wtinesn1sz                                                         84   154   17S   166        15    113    713         1%
Total fto3ect Cast                                        1500  S600 2*730 32417 30910  23636 1)3000 133000   101%
Loss-Ung  csultants               0/yer                           300   s00   800   800    700   3400   3400   2.6%    9%   9t
short-Tom  Coas1tante               /Aths                        1275  1175  1425  1475    1650   7000   7000    5.3%          9%  12%
Cosutast Contrct                    1_ssaft               I5    500   525   521   52S          325   3750   3758    2.8%   100%   o0
Y.cnaal*  hoSIstanc                           1358  207S  2SOO  2750  2*00    2675  14158  1415*  10.7%   100%   0%
£ASistrttw s     Uea              I%Mpeo                         3000  30*0  3000  3000   3000  15000  15000    i1%            0  100%
Publicateln ?raaslations           Mianth                                350   350   350       350    1400    1400   1.1    30%  70%
Fellovshpe                         *Iaoath                         24      0    96    48        48     276    276   0.2%   100%  10o
vute                                                              401 11191 12232 11*32   726   43021  43021  32.5%  100%  o0
Cput.Lr Ibray   otortial                                           20   *20   SOO                     1440    1640    1.2%
uss5 tpraratin                                                   1084  10*4  10*4  1084   lO*    5420   5420   4.10
8qn3umt                                                    142           100  3050  2550              5S42   5S42   4.4%   100%   0%
Prlntlng/P lis*na                                                        500   500   500       500   2000   2000   1.5%    701  300
Traiaine Prooras                                                 2240  2210  1920  1920   1920  10230  10230   7.7%   100%  70%
5 Staff (tse. only)                    72
Salai"                                                           6640  4440  44O  4460   6440  33300  33300  25.2%             0%  100%
Totl B_e  06t                                            1500 15S24 2*576 32442 30744  23501 1322*7 132267
rice Cmntingencie  fer  tqulmt.. Bso/Pllsoa                       84   154    35   144    431.   713    713    3.9%   tO0%    Oo
Ud TrainioG OX010dift opUter)                                                                                            705
Toal Oests                          1S10  1540* 2*730 32617 30910  23636 133000 133000   713
A. Unit COsta Ler U84hfmsat 8St1  tot Traii    Progam.
7008M1                                                                  --1--     -------I
micr@-ceuter  fer class of 20                     lb.    10           3000        3000
Priater  fet  elas et 20                          go.      2          50*0        10000
VCR and  uaitet                                   ts.      1          1000          1000
Ovonbead proector Vscren                          SO.      1           500           500
80taure pI*ate.                                            5            SO          400
rnitu    et a.                                             1          2000         2000
41t~ WA                                           USdtw  M.  1        1100         1100
B-.    iImllY  3ipge   Lcticas
VCII en4   oitor                  t        e        .   1             X000          1000
overhea  prolcto V/.Me                            lb.      1           500           500
Sotts"      ckage                                ft.       5            00           400
tVatar. set                                      ft.       1          S0*0         2000
Var nachin                                        Io       1          1100          1100
Sttal                 5000



46
Page 1 of 8
1.    sh caurret automation capacity of the 3  s extr1awly limited.
_araxe, software, staffing and fInaal resources ar  na no way adequate to
support the lmediate or long-rang  need  for _coputer or applications
softwr. Additionally, the premt wgaisatiol relationship (i.e. lines
of authority) betwee the 1  and the Oblasts/Distriote a  Local Office
preent some challenges to a conistent. united automation project.
2.   The repoting relationshps withia the organiatLonal structure of the
bederation ia the           Service area prelude direct authority and
control of the N1  over the opeation  of the oblasts/Districts and Local
Offics.  ikewise, the funding flow structure limts the lafluence the PUS
can exercise over the sub-entities. he a reslt the ablasts/DLitrLts are
free to exercise a great dal of inepndec  i formuting ad exeuting
technial and operational plans. Mence# compute systems delopment is
somewhat fragmente, A  proceeding irregularly througot the RV.
3.   the InfOrmation System  D    tmnt wLthn the 1   consists of five (5)
employees. Oblasts/Dietxicts have computer staffs, and ia se cases Local
Office have computer staff  _embers, as well. A numbe of Oblasts/Disicts
are moving ahed with automatio plans, som  ae waiting for guLdance and
assistan  frm the 1  and still othe  "re presumably doing nothing.
Consequently, a diversity of tehnical strategies age being pursued or
considered.
4.          tly apprimtely two hundred Local offices have some hardware
capacity. The oonfiguratLos vary frm larg  scale Mainframes wlth Wide Area
Network (W) timesharig capability, to sta  alone PC's. The I8 ha
estabIlise a technical guideline (i.e. not mandatory) of I3K compatible PC's
and  assoiated opating system  software. Likewise, a varety of hardware
and software exLt in the Oblast/City/UstrLct and at the 13.
_M-M
S.   An assortment of aplications system  are i use in thos  local offices
having equlpment. Same offLes' use of the eqipmet Lncludes woffice
automation.0 Pathe tha  provding client sevice most are usiag the



47
Page 2 of 8
computers to register applicants prfom job watching an  Ln a few cases
calculate             befits       es.  s_YteMs ae* rather paper and mnual
intensive aN  do not represent a truly "autmatedO cpablity.
6.   It is Liportant to note that wlth the preset enviroament s dLversity of
capabilities and the absc of centralised control over the automation
program no totally unified strategy Le possible or, in fact, desirable. With
the variety of conditios (organizational, technial and finacial) it would
be a mistake to dictate rigid tehnologial standards, operating procedures,
appiLcatLons systems, etc. Prankly, it is not likly to be possible glven the
independene of the Oblats/Oistricts  a   fure          it would tend to stifle
progress and constrain Innovation ln the mor progressve ablaste/DLetrLcts.
Conversely, themre  an opportunty for the 135 to provide guidelLnes to, and
stimulate crtio n in, thoe Oblaste/Ditricts wlthout adequate staff
or resources. It is hee that a unifled or standard approach would be most
useful, successful, and financially prudent.   ecognaing that any
Federation-wLde strategy will, of necesLty, ewxude some of the more
independt OCblasts/Districts the attentLon of the 1  must be in the
directLon of elevating the capabLlity an  capacLty of the le  fortunate
Oblasts/DLitricts. Th  following nees for autmaton and asociLated
materials and guidance ar the  ot critials
.schnLal l
7.   Given the fact that  mws OblasteDstricts have resources with which to
begin automation progrems it would be extremely useful to the PU5 to formlate
and publish, not only hardware, operating systems word procesLng,
spreadshsee, prograigpackae an  language guLdelLnes, but also selected
standard data elsemnt format and definitions. Thes guidelines would offer
substantial compatibility for exchang of data, reporting of statistical
information, sharing of application systems, etc.
S.   of major importance in the deelopet of computer appiLcatLons is the
need to asure that the compute systm  os designed to properly interface wlth
the processes of the offices  Nowhere is ths ore important thn at the
Local office lel where the cllents are  ftewed. there is a need for the 138
to develop suggested Local Office procedure for carrying out the
responsibilities of the tocal Offloe. InitaLlly the noed is for manual and
semi-computerised procedures, but at a later date the procedures should be
aended to refloet the automated step  the eventul compute system will
embody.
Oranatlon NW staffi.
9.   Staff resoure  to support the compts exist In some of the regLonal
and local offloe, but are snial  (S employes at the present) at the n3o
level. Th  present limit of automtLon staff ln the M3 precludes adequate



48
D S
Page 3 of 8
oversight and management of a substantial computerization project.
Augmentation of the present Information Systems staff in the PUS ip necessary
assuring a range of automation capabilities and skills are covered. Whereas
the actual development of computer ystems can be accomplished through the use
of outside contracts, the oversLght role must reside within the FRO and must
not be left to consultants and contractors.
10.  The second problem is the present confusion surrounding the question of
"who determines the user requirements to be fulfilled by the data processing
professionals?" A clear understandLng of who the customer is, in each of the
systems areas, is necessary. This role can be fulfilled by a steering
committee or by a single point of contact in each of the program areas in the
FUS, but it cannot be left to the data processing staff to resolve the
inevitable conflicts over priorities and schedules.
ApDleatIons        mDeveloent
11.  Of primary urgency, in light of the expected increases in unemployment
and the neceessity to process benefit payments, is the need to proceed quickly
with a short-term strategy to develop and implement at least minimal hardware,
software and applications system nationally for Local office use. Thli
short-term effort must target the limited Objective of cmputerized
retgstration of the unemployed, calculation of benefits, and required
record-keeping for benefits payments. The software and hardware for this
short-term objective must be deployed immediately in order to prevent a
breakdown in the overwhelmingly manual local office systems when unemployment
rises beyond the present capacity. (It is noted that the 135 has formulated a
plan to select 2-3 applications system from among those 15 or so ln operation
and to encourage local offices to adopt one of these system. This approach
is the most expedient for achieving the short-term objective of quickly
providing computerixation to support unemployment processes.)
12. Of equal importance, but somewhat leos urgency, is the requirement to
develop comprehensive computer systems to support the broad range of evolving
118 and biployment Service functions and activities. System development
activitie should proceed indefinitely with full automation rqupiring 5 to 10
years. This long-range project would require a much more deliberate approach
than the short-term unemployment project discussed above, and would require a
formal System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology be followed. This
methodology should include project planning, requlrements definition, system
design, programing, testing documentation, etc. in conjunction with this
long-range project serious consideration should be given to two particular
issue. The first is the likely future need to evolve toward a more
sophisticated hardware and networking onvironment. The second area which
should be addressed is the interrelationship between the 1B8 and other RP
organizations. There is likely a need to interface programmatically and
technically with other oclal/welfare agencies. Requiremnts for such
linkage should be considered at the outset.



49
Pag. 4 of ,
Hardware
13.  To support both the short and the long-range applications system
objectives a procIrement, or series of equipment procurements, is necesary.
Rather than have indlivdual Oblasts/Distrlits buyLng these components.
Federatlon contracts should be establLshed, through whlch the
Oblasts/DstrLets could buy and through whlch lnternational flnanclal
asslstance could be used. An optlonal quantity contract speoLfying the
minimum number of components whlih could be defLnLtely ordered, wlth the
possibility of ordering more, would be most desirable. The first phase of the
hardware and operating systems procurement should addres the lawedLate need
for PC's, with a subsequent procurement to fulflll the more comprehenslve
applicatlons: In other words, to be compatible wlth the short and long-range
strategy of system development, there should be both a short and long-range
hardware procurement strategy.
Manter Plan
14. It li clear that a substantial and sustained computerLsatLon effort is
necessary to support the immedLate and long-term program components of the
P8S. These program components Laclude the full range of servLoes to the
publlc, such as regLsterLng the unemployed, processLag and payment of
benefits, referral to job vacancLes and training, public works, etc., as well
as internal PUS management LnformatLon systems necessary to facilltate
record-keepLng, statlstical reporting, financLal magm-ent and other lnternal
operational actlvlties. Investment ln hardware, software, applicatLons
development and continuing malntenance and enhLancemnt i cruclalt furthermor
this lnvestment must be made wlthln the context of a well formulated near and
long-term strategy.
Plan Overview
15.  The clear and urgent requLrement is to deploy computerLsation capablilty
as quLckly as possible ln order to support the calculation of beneflts at the
local offlce level. Other requLrements for comprehensive automation
capabLlity at all levels of the Employment 8ervlces structure certainly exlst
but can be fulfilled through a less accelerated strategy. Consequently, the
recommended approach is to dlvLde the effort ahead Lnto two (2) dlstlnct
projects.  The fLrst would be the mplementatLon of the  enflts Subsystem
consisting of registration, benefits calculation and reportLng. This
implementation would of course be accompanied with the installation of
appropriate hardware to support the subsystem.
16.  The components of the short-term plan are designed to accomplish three
objectives:
(i)  To distribute guidelines to the fLeld as quLikly as possLble so
that any local procurement are compatible with the equipment that will be
procured natLonally, thereby being able to operate smoothly with the Benefits
Subsystem to be distributed.



50
aR s
Page 5 of a
(ii)  To procure the first wave of equipment to support the Benefit
Subsystem, and
(1ii) To provide the Benefits Subsystem applications software, operating
procedures and documentation, as well as simple record-keeping software to
track mass layoff and public works.
17. It should be noted that the schedule is based on the possibly optimistic
assumption that either there would be no substantive change to the present
Employment Law or that any changes would not be of such a complicated nature
so as to delay the completion of the adaptation of the benefits application
software subsystem.
18.  Concurrently with the execution of the short-term plan attention should
be given to the long-range project of developing comprehensive computer
systems. Whereas the full long-range development activlties are likely to
take from 5 to 10 years, the initial phase would encompass a number of
preliminary steps to address the organizational, capability building issues
and ministry-wide, indeed RF governmental-wide, inter-relationships. The
actual requirements analyses and planning phases of such a major project would
yield the information on the specific components of the project, but in
general the plan should cover the details necessary tot
(i) fulfill the requirement of a sound systems development methodology
while
(ii) covering the specific needs and priorlties of the F18.
19.   Figure 2 is a general outline with a tentative schedule initiating the
activities. The actual scope of Phase 1 activities will depend not only on
the resources available but also the speed with which the YU8 can formulate
requirements.
20.   The three (3) primary objectives of the long-rang plan are to:
(i) Perform a thorough requirements analysis
(Li) Procure full functioning equipment to support the broad spectrum
of applications systems during the first three years of operation
(iii) Develop the first phase of the applications system.
Flnanglal Reirement
21.  The funding necessary to execute the short-range plan and the initial
phases of the long-range plan is estimated to be $35 K over the next 19
monthe. The planning assumptions whlch were used to derive the financial
estimates are as follows:



51
ANnnuK 5
Page 6 of 8
Teohnical Assistance (TAr
22.  It is expected that three (3) TA specialists would be necessary to
provide guidance to the 78E over the next year at a mLnimum. Assuming an
annual cost of $125,000 for salary and annual expenses of $115,000 this
results in $720,000 for 12 months.
23. One TA specialist should be devoted to assisting the FES in developing
office operating procedures including mass layoff and public works automated
record-keeping to be integrated with computerization stepsl a second
specialist is necessary for development of hardware roquirements and
specificationsl and the third TA specialist is crucial for computer project
management assistance to the FES.
Short-term Plan
24.  For execution of the short-term plan, a total funding of $30.5 X is
estimated. Equipment requirements are for approximately 5800 Personal
Computers (PC's) consisting of 386 technology and associated Operating System
and packaged software, each with a laser printer. The unit cost is expected
to be $5,000 or a total of $29 M. The actual distribution of the PC's to
Local, Oblast/District and FES offices can be determlned later but each office
location must have at least two (2) PC's for back up/contingency purposes.
The total assumed number of locations of 2,400 includes 7F8, 2121
Oblast/District and the present locations as well as some expansion local
offices. This number of locations would be broken into categories of 200
locationis having an average of five (5) PC's each; 400 locations having three
(3) PC's each; and 1800 locations having two (2) PC's each.
25. Certainly the hardware installatLons cannot be scheduled simultaneously
throughout the Federation; the hardware installations, as well as the
implementation of the short-term Denefits Subsystem are likely to occur over a
period of up to ton (10) months. It is of utmost importance that those
geographical areas predicted to have the greatest impact from unmployment
receive the flrst installations; those areas predicted to have less impact
should receLve the later installations.
26. Site preparation costs are dlfficult to predLet but it is expected that
an average cost of $S500 for each location would be reasonable, resulting in a
total cost of $1.2 M.
27.   Finally, trainirg costs for both hardware and benefits applications
software are expected to be no more than $300,000 since a "train the trainer"
approach is envisaged.
Lonn-Term Plan
28. The long-term computerization plan assumes consultants/contractors would
accomplish most of the work during the first phase, For purposes of
estimating consultant fees $1000 per day, including expenses was used and It



52
Page 7 of 8
La assumed that each month wlll result in 25 billable days. The planning task
is expected to requLre a total of 500 man days, or flve (5) consultants for
four (4) months. The hardware speclflcation task will demand two (2)
consultants to prepare the RFP over a period of nine (9) months or $450,000.
29.  The sytems development phase will require approximately 10 consultants
over the perLod of May 1993 - December 1993 for a total of $2 K. Finally,
prototype hardware for development and testing is expected to cost about $1 M.
30.      Coincidental with oversLght of the computerization plan FR8
management must be aware of a number of issues whlih have substantLal bearing
on the successful progress of automation. These Lisues must be addressed in
order to properly proceed with the computerliatLon objectives.
roLkLzation
31. In order to fulfill the requlrements of the automation plans, both short
and long-term, an organlzational structure with a clear defLnitLon of roles
and reqponsibilitles must be created withLn the 138. Of speclfle importance
L a structure which depicts the interrelations among the InS s Information
ServLces department, TA specLalists and any companLes or consulting firm
whLch will participate ln the automation project. Further, the roles and
responsibilities of other 3S5 departments and the Oblasts/Districts vie a vle
the computerization project entltles must be deflned.
32. A second organizational issue is the eventual need to bulld a capaclty
for developng system wlth an approprlately sLzed nS staff. Whereas outside
contractore can be used to augment the FES staff lt is best to create a
somewhat self-sufficLent department. This wlll prove to be a necessary
component of a smoothly operating automation program, sLace lt will foster
greater responsiveness to user needs. Having capable in-house staff resources
also tends to offer greater rellablilty and depth of understandLig of the
needs of the users. FLnally, in-house staff are likely to be much less
expensive than procurLng the servLces through outsLde computing services
contracts. SLnce lt often takes anywhere from one (1) to three (3) years to
buLld a capable in-house staff, management should begin as quickly as possible
glving both attention and resources to this end.
33. Several difficulties lnherent in today's envLronwent deserve the
attention of mausament.
34.     The fLrat is the serLous problem a number of offlces have wlth
limited space and facliLties. Increases ln workload resulting from increases
in unemployment will necessLtate higher staffing levels and larger areas for
clients. ThLi problem will be further compllcated by the requirement to wlre
the otfices for computers. WlrLng offices, whlch can be quickly outgrown and
whLih cannot be expanded will present challenges to managemnt. In general,



53
au S
Page 8 of 8
each case must be handled according to the particular circumtances, but the
installation of the computers should not be postponed simply to avoid
investing in facility preparation when it is clear that a new office site will
be necessary.
35.  A second area which will require the ongoing attention of managemet is
the need for an adequate staff training capacity. The difficulty of a
transition to an automated environment cannot be overstated. Whereas soe of
the staff will welcome automation others in the local and Oblast/District
offices will have a great deal of trouble adapting themselves to the new
technology. The only way to overcome this problem is for manageme to assure
dequate preparatory training and proper follow-up training is given. This
will be no small task since large numbers of staff must be trainedi however,
the risk of having the computer systems sit idle or even worse, to be used
incorrectly, is great if proper training is not forthcoming.
36. Finally, a third area with which management must be concerned is the
requirement for continuing support of computer systems. Once the system are
installed the demand for support will soar. Technical guidance will be
necessary, maintenance and repair of hardware must be immediately available,
application software problems must be resolved, and consumable supplies must
be avaiiable. The rural areas, of coarse, will experlence the greatest
difficulty in accessing the necessary technical support, but urban areas may
find some needs can not be met locally as well.
olicym
37.    One of the greatest challenges management will face with the
computerization program is the continued consistency of the unified system.
Just as some technologically advanced Oblasts/DistrLits will not choose to
partLcipate in the unlfied system, others who do participate will want to make
local changes to the system, thereby creating a non-standard* versLon. The
need to make local changes will be precipitated by legal requirements as well
as efficiency enhancement. Over time, left unchecked, the unifLed system
will have many, many versions. Centralixed control and support for
applications system and standardizatLon of hardware will erode. There is no
simple solution for this inevltable problem. St will become a policy Issue as
to whether the 138 will want to enforce strict compliance with standard
systems or allow local alterations.
conclusion
38. Large automation projects inevitably encounter numerous difficulties but
have enormous potential for improving the capablIlties of the organization
they are to serve. During the next several years the benefits of automation
will enhance the service delivery to the clients of the IR8.



54
Page 1 of 2
-s8a
3MIT.flyjNy SERVICKS AND pOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Proiect Coordination Unlt
1.    ManMomennihStructurh. The final authority and control of a proposed project
is by the Head of the Federal Smployment Service (FES). The day-to-day operations
should be implemented under the dlrection of his principal Deputy. To provide
support to the leadership of F8S, a Project Coordination Unlt le to be established.
The Project Coordination Unit will be responsible for the overall coordination and
oversight of the project and for its successful implementation. An important
objective of the PCU is to enhance the capacity of the FE staff to manage and
coordinate an active employment service program. Therefore Russian counterpart
staff with a co-project manager is a key part of the PCU. It is expected that these
staff would be able to perform project management tasks in future World Bank
projects without the need for international consultants. The PCU staff levels, both
forelgn and local counterparts, would be maLntained throughout the duration of the
project, with levels of staffing and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
(Pilot actLvLties in the MBP would fall under the dlrection of the Minister, who
will follow the design and evaluation of programs.)
2.   ManugMmD       t   ison. The PCU would be responsible for project management and
coordinatLon, as well as trouble shooting as problem arlse ln the carrying out of
the speciflc TA tasks, whlch would be triggered by the failure to meet specified
benchmarks. The management functions would Lacludes (L) coordlnating the execution
of the project operations schedule including performance benchmarks and contractor
reporting procedures; (ii) provldlng contractor monitorLng; (LLi) ensuring
coordination of the related TA task actlvltles, e.g., user requirements with the
automation design; (lv) preparing overall project progress reorts; (v) providing
contract financLal oversight includLag financial reports; (vi) advising on
prourement proemdures, etc. whero  ub-contracts, including RussLan suppliers may be
involved; nid (vii) a full range of other general management and administrative
dutles requlred in carrying out the overall project. Glven thli set of functlons,
the Laternational consultants, skills should be largely in project management,
rather than the technical tasks being undertaken, since the latter expertise lies
mainly in the TA teams. There would be five lnternational consultants, and each
would brLng, beyond project management sklls, a background or knowledge in
employment and training programs. The five international consultants would includes
(l)    Project Management Director with skills and experience in overall
project managment techniques and practLces;
(ii)    Project Planninag  Monitoring and Reporting Expert;
(LiL)    Pinancial Management and Control Expert;
(lv)    Computer system _ xpert;
(v)    Procurement Expert (part-time).



55
UMLA^ 
Page 2 of 2
Consultants (i) through (iv) would be involvd for the full 15 months of the project
and the fifth would be available for the first two months of the project to assist
in the initial procurement activltles. The four RussLan counterparts would be
generalists with promLis of belng quickly trained in the related project management
techniques.
3.   The overall Project Implementation Schedule would guide the implementation of
the project and facilitate the necessary coordination of tasks, monitoring of
progress as well as problem identification and resolution. Thus a key task of the
PCU would be to develop such a detailed schedule. The plan, in a form of a project
wide GANTT or PURT chart, would be drawn from the component terms of reference and
the executed contracts' scope of work. The Terms of Reference and the aongluded
&echnigal asZai  ngnrae  would clearly identify the tasks to be performed; the
products to be delivered; set out performance timetables; and, detail the basic
administrative elements such as reporting and procurement/fiduciary requiremnts.
The Project ImplementatLon schedule would contain the overall key benchmarks,
critical paths and other information through which project progress could be
tracked. Critical linkages and rolationships between the individual technical
assistance efforts would be detailed therein. A key role of the PCU is to
facilitate coordination of Later-dependent project elements which cut across
individual oontractor activitLes, e.g., employment service user requirement with the
computerization effort.
4.   The PCU will directly strengthen project MaermLsiJ.n in several respects.
There would be a contractor reporting system with periodic (monthly) technical
assistance proress reports to the PCU which would forward them to the Read of the
1B8. The report format would be designed by the POU and would relate to the Project
mplefmentation Schedule. A PU monthly summary report would highlight problems and
issues, reccgnded actions, etc.
5.   Similarly, an VW reportlag system with periodic (monthly) technical
assietance progres reports to the lank (and other Russian authorities, as
appropriate) would also be established. These reports would be prepared by the PCU
on the basis of the contractors, progress reports noted above. There would also be
periodic INS financial reports to the Bank based on the Dank's existing requirements
and procedures. The PSU technical assistance progress reports to the Dank would
identify and discuss the key policy issues and other major problem which have
surfaced in the contracting reports or otherwise have been identified. As
appropriate, the Dank can provide guidance or other assistance, or take up matters
under the ongoing policy dialogue.
6.   Given the POU's overall project mnagement and coordination role, the PCOU
should be independent of the component project activities. The PCU should also
provide assistance in arranging translation and interpreter support for the project
contractors, as well as providing "heavy duty' reproduction and other project
adminstrative support. Additlonal Russian staff to carry out these functions would
need to be provided.



AIM7 PageX  of 8
aims"                     80
s-Quarter 1  -Quartr 2 1 -@itr 3- i-Qarter 4-  l-arte5- I
ysgmo.j as±.taoe  mUgeatOet-UW-O  Sam Veb KmAM  ay Sua.Tul- MM #pt act Moves. Tan  go Mr Apr
1_-_2----11993  -- -1993--                           _94               1994-- 5
tsoj oto*4 i   mIttI  
fAitt mmalaW lUli
Sa tbr Ft. psl.& Mt. Cagelaty
_ liaPnal", mCeto ly  1ste
-  lommat l_rvos _ast.. owve/gt Caoalty    I
-   eamaz1   Uvaatioa 8  Policy Devpt.
- NM"s Lsal &*opaet "flowe
- Mass Lmapof tMas a  caacity
Pt- Of tommmcally Dw"tated ares
Mbor Markt ofezmatm  yt                      P _        I
-aes &9l &evel  tol a          , teab e 
-stagff Wraina
-Pamois of Private a pablia jobs                  I                                                     ... A
creation progress
- Ocoupatiosal Classifiastl S ys
-Lambor market Muuitori*a/eurveyd/Peverti, Lahow  I~ 
eloyaet Pralaing                                  l                                       _
Ministry of 5.aial Protectiwa,                                   - 
-m  Tom DWt PI     Lllo                                                z|
PCsa nd Visal Ad1 
ito/ ilities Preratin                                                       . e *
Caspater Ueelopaat/aiplioatiosaI.4
Mscwmtiau
- MM%bWO                                                                 ?..4'a.on
- Vser Data  (oa*ss.sl.o
- yteas Dvwelopmoat                                
Irvotoepp  Rardemar Develapset a vesting          I~ 



AM387 pag 2 of S
LOS~3  O       F-wna~
Product en ActivitIes to be comleted by
contractors wlthli speaific tioframo
Y03  350131011. 3sSISYA'                    '    -                                   P&Y               Cei"iUcS
NO.      c aPOEE
L..  we 803  000oID3&aYZo  m3!    signin  of contracts withb PM VA prior to
wi11 rman In place for the       effee        by Jau"y 1993
duration of the proeats will    Sstablisbmnt of PM/staff                            01-Feb-93 tbrough  30-Apr-14
cotinaly updat proae5Ze"   Ptoject Qperatia Crogrms                                 01-Feb-93 tbrovgh  30-Apr44
to develop effective projeot      - Coordatla of 3) componots
infomatio  magemet sytem          - M. 1. a. 4evlogmet
_ Fisucni Aditn
- eporting Procedures
-  rocuremoat IVaing
2.  .AP? YUMU    UN!!                 Nstablilsbmt of StEfffraM    Utit                  01-eb-93 through  31-sy43
Unoordnatlon of ft compoents and
will engage la comprehewive      Developmt of staff ttraing strategy:               01-Feb-93 through  31-Jul-f3
staff training at               Provide Facllities a 8quipuent                      01-FE-93 tbrough  31-Jul-93
headuarte, regioal ad            Netablish sta fraing Support Capaaity              01-Feb-93 through  31-May-93
local level offsces of the      framingw aterfal require_mts and aids               01-ap-93 through  31-Ma-93
V8.
3.   Bongo= DU rID  OF                Feblicatioc of procuremt documents                 01-Feb-93 throug   31r-93             . 
um.oi    38311018                P>thlicatioa of Gtideline  and Standards           01-Feb-93 through  01-Sep-93
staff fraing                                       01-Feb93 through  30-Sep43
is designd to met the           Iustallation of Iquignet                            01-Jun-93 thrwoug  O1-ov-93
emorgeny needs of the 83C to    computerlsed registrtlat                            01-Ju-93 througb  01-Ju-94
process unemploymet benefits    Automated benefits calclation                       01-jun-93 through  01-Ju-94
claim  axd to devise a short
term automatlon plan.
4.   PMS - la0 lam"! POLIC  ANSD   Analyze existin  budget and sYstems                   01-Feb-93 throadh  31-Ma-93
I _NAGUN SYSID                Identlfy needs and posslble improvemets
Progrm planui, budget           Make rocommndations on now
formlation and fnancial                    sand processes
control sstem iwludliw an       Prepare rPort for FBM
audt capaclty supptted by        Seaure FE  approval
an K.I.X.
"Slit M  ia implemtation of                        01-apr-93 through  31-Ju-93
teised plan
support VWI in prepwrig syte ,                     o0-apr-93 tbhouog  31-Jul-93
processe, tools a staff
deelopmet
eplormenat services             Analyze existing eploymt services                   01-Jul-93 through  30-Sep-93
managemet and oversight           program - policles, oversight
capaelty including a. program     capacity and multoring procedures.
Performance revlew capalcty     Mevies program elements.
supported by monstoring           Lncorporating evaluations
____ >>lures. *Prepare report and secure F8s approrval



AUll t 1ge 0f S
products adActivities to be _oseleted hi
osetreotmer withlo specifc timefreme
againgm|eeo    t,n   _fl   C t
111.      _   ta u                                                                        _   _   _    _ _   _   _
-        - UM  MI   MiOLer mm           sit MI&  relattm of                              0       3 trou    31-Dso-93
tostimos)                        8urt VW tsees l"g Xspeot of
Develop  smim  to losecpoate,
rai 8Staf  ad bild their suport
Sesear, Uveluatio  ma            RI_earh policy dovelagmet roc                      0l    43 throug   30-a"e 3
Polcy dro"lo    t IF sp  rogrm Saperstia  ewauatics
Suppwortd by a progrides MU     Asses" the proraxm's dsvoelopmet capacity
a"d devlemat apeity.            Prepar reprt nd se   3 approval
A"it VW in                  of e0-S 3 tOug   31-POs43
reisd  le
_upot mmi assls  epest of
- -ru
movelop m_aims to lcorporate
.~~~~~~~uou  program   ams
IaaStaff md build their spoft
_ _awmmnl ofttl1ss
Sao" aloginmt                  Svalmaae, osstiao  osatamn Minpemm  a
gs. dote em be                                *" n m
supliaoB   Vill be                    eSIMI e    etd to-S   oga
_sied, to most diVer                 A"*" mtemetioe Needs
seedsad ofesel eoupismot                     laes    ter"e report for 1
sevis                                       An Saepg tigrooomdatlass
aMi Mastom" *ugepsa
3.Develop modail ocal Office system 1nrO   through  31-55143
Orgsistical& aperiliomel Procedures
organisat"ioal &Oporatiome
reportig usoheaflsas
Prepare supportti documsatatic., manuals amd
material for aorigniaticoma, opoamtioal
amd fiscal mkenageamet.
eveliop starf trainin materials
Develop alient services program wlith
special refer.... to occupational
coun selln    -and  quideace__                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



AS    7  Page,4 of D
Products and Activities to be caspieted by
cantrators  itbin speitfic tinfsam
_0.    O  m S Pg                     _ _ _  _ _ , _ .  _ _ _ _  _ , _ i i  _ _ _ _ _
5.1  raom  sxeIss
(Montiu"d             e.  Pield Tet the mufti in thre  loal                         01-May-93 tbrouh  30-44n-93
mode  taal  _loymt                     offUic  With different .nuiroomts
Offices that caa be                    ad Incorovate reftinemt an needed
rapllated viti be
d"egned, to mat dvers                grain reional starff                           30-Apr-93 thro    30-Un-93
naegs of local employmt              Aslit In developin  regom                      30-Apr-93 throug   30-Jun-93
serice  ad incorporatiag             capacity to support local off ice In
existiOg RUSSIan eupeIMets           iwlestatin
and atetoe Raropean                   stablish a natioal                            30-Apr-93 throug   30-Ju-93
emperiemoe.                          *trouble-shootin  TA caacity to
support regional  iplemtation.
B.  D     _velawmant of Impromsd model office      01-Apr493 thrlugh  30-am-93
system design. 34d 'Ow to
rspliastin packag  inludg
eplapatoy materials,
lnpiematatice, faolllties
. _~~~~~~~rprtio  an  _up t gudelne.
.  .  ooutasw to mitor models"                      01-apr-93 tbrongh  30-am-3      .
lalenmntation MAn oeraiona
.swrle_c  to inso  adluet_mts
incerporating res0lms that may
mere, inludin  staffiln
.equirmms, staff tranin  (tra
the traines) and usr
coeputeriuaioa  assstan.
5.2-  _ev Ceom    of C_ter nvPublicti  of  v Ta pln.                                     01-A93 thou    31-Oct-93
4Ppliton                             Prototpe eipmt installati.                     01-Ag-93 throgh  30-apr-94
to support a corpehmsive             Iae I applicatlos syatem  test.                01--bS4 throug   30-Apr-95
rane of cltent service  and
manugomot Safoernatle
sytem at selectod offles.



aP93  7 Page S of 8
bXa8tz    or a _naAi
Products and aatlvitiee to be completed by
cotractors withln specific tmeframa
30.     coa w io in                     _    _   _    _   _ _   _    _   _   _    _   _     _   _   _    _   _
5.3  KwS Lairop 3391035  CIPACZ           Preparation of an interi-                      01-Veb-93 through  31-Ma-93
wll dselop a progrm to                 report to asess exlsting
address maes labor                     conditios.
reandancies in entoprises            Deelopmt of a modl N1W tem iLn                 31-rO-93 through  30-p8-93
by te establishmet of                  cooperation with egionl and local
1saly Respons  eama (Bs)               off le.
Dvelopmet ot a manual oonetalnn                31-Mar-93  through  30-Ar-93
the necessar methodelogy.
oed , tools, techiques and
guidelnes, and staffnl/staff
traii  reuremts and course
content.
Assist 3  In field testing 3                   01-Feb-93 through  30-Ap93
model In flve mas layoff situations
Develop furthor modifLcations in
progr_m design as necessary
s.1  3LC mimes UiwoaU                     Prepare interim report to asess                01-Apr-93 through  31-Ma-93
eo ceate standby                     existing caabilities and resources
discretionary public Work            available to address job cratio                                                            0
m4or temporary emloyment             strategies.
progamsw
Prepare public wors and temporary              01-apr-93 tbrouh  31-May-93
employment anual ad related
suporting procedures and gidance
for awerall ms3 plannn. budgeting
and progrm managmnt as well as
ldentfication of staff trainin
requlrements a  content.
"Aist 35 In field testin  the                  01-May-93 through  30-Ju-93
public works and temoray emloymet
model In seloeted blg  UNleoyment
areas and dealopin  further
modiications a progrm desgn as
neosary.



MUU 7 Pag 6 ot 8
Produts end Actlivtles to be completed by
contractors withi spelfic tinfrems
R   WUZOL M8EYSC                                             -                              StR        .    .     MP..
NO.     cam                            _                                       .
D           Ooo    PU:p               assist WED to study the lIse of                 01-My-93 through  30-pr-94
IMMzOai.T USMAYBD AlE                unemplmet In areas that had a
sinle ecoomic actlvlty, and provide
uidance to defne lpolly optionso.
6.1  waai. tama MwoaRI                     Prepar interim report to a&sess                  01-May-93 thrumgh  15-Jun-93
INiOuauO.W SUWED                      existing capeblllltes and resources
Local Labor market                    avallable to  romote effective labor
Information systems to be             market laformation flows.
devloped by local
employmaet services offices           Develloment of lnterim techniques,              15-Jun-93 throub  31-JUl-93
to ldentlfy demand for                tools and aproacheo  to be used by
placaaent and trailnin                local office  including staff
activities.                           traiunw requlre_mts.
Cwnduct staff training prorams wlth             31-Jl-93 through  31-Au-93
developmet suort from staff
traoin     unit.
Prepar report              measures             31-Aug-93 through  31-Aug-94
and actlons noeded to develop the                                                            ab
more estenslve and substentlve local
labor market informtion program
requred by local eploymt servlces
and training agencies
Prmote private ad individual                    01-Nat-93 tbrough  31-Jul-93
inltlatlves in functioning of labor
market by devlopaing %m tor
brocures regarding job sarch
techniques, interviewing, resume
preparatin.  te deign of a public
media caoin on hbow the labor
market functions, available govt.
programs a services and the role of
Individual Anitiative.
Devlopent of programs encouraged by             01-Jul-93 thoug   31-Oct-93
goernmet such as private job
plaemet age.cies, job clubs, job
fairs, and other non  mploymet
service labor exchange actlvitles.



R3UU?7 Pgee7 of S
Liavm. or  _inau
Products and Lotvitis  to bh  coleted by
cantaactrs within spelUii tmeframe
ewfi tuz aa usvAP                        -           .FR _                       ,        N                 at1
W.          q                                          .oo
ZOOM.~~ laSSSMhU             tOp    ato   reort noitiu                      OFlUi     thob  01-93 n--9
Ivwin 815aW                          classifuction mthods and categories.
(cOtiue)                             Awom_m  an Interim olassflcation
6.1               classifiatio n          qtou incldin  the possble
s"t                                  ad         of VA or W standard
system  and secure M  apovaI
Devlop an Interim and 1lmited                   01-Ju-93 throug   31-Jul-93
Mccupetioml olassiflcation ceod
using osistin systems already ia use
by local offices an a torary
bass.
Conduct staff trainin  pogerms In               01-Aug-93 throug   31-Au-93
o_ccptlodnl classification wlth
develoent tsuort frn staff
trainugw unit.
6.2  _abo maret anitoring au              prepar reprt ettiog out a looger                01-Aug-93 throug   31-Aug-93               "
survgs to establish lIs"             term strategyan plan for deelopin
tween  lor bmet                    an updated and compreh_enlve
montorin  ad powerty                 ocopatlml classification system
mnitoring.                           Reviw ad anayse existlu  data and
capacity for monitoring labor mrket
trends, and for verty mnitorin.
Identify shortacming  of methodology            01-Feb-93 through  onoing
in use.
Develop interim survey Instrument.              01-e-93 through  30-Jun-93
conduct surve.                                  01-Ju-93 throuo   ongoin
Provide report with prelimiary                 o0-sep-93 through  30-Apr-96
rvsults of surve and establlshed
baseline.



hU  7  PO geof 8
LIoM  oW _n _mm
fto'dotl. and ativitirn to b  cauloted by
contractors within spemf to testrem
1oin_ ffU1                    aaew.l-p a         Metmlb * st taaitia  sa-                   throug   30-Tm-' 33
_o     tm                rtO       .tb:W.
otma pe.it3 to fro"IS
Sminiag to th  _im*pleg"          e        st3ess  for 4.Uvwmy of £rasiae An        08-AW43 tClu_   30-000,93
om theme at dis  of _erniae       S  lesits.
"sIo               1_ta p    M _Olt to              01-p4)3 tbvomO   Si-Ost-43
.er otWket aegis.
--_ t..- MG pv.idsre  fw Irsiala            01-am-f3 t xot   21-Ost-,)
lroef1  a" eqmi 300 t,oais  setw X d t t            01-_*l-93 thrnOh  30-AM-94
iekaudeiSowml -a .omtw uaigmsmt.
_1" ~ ~ ~ ~~prae otta _dM 
11 gmbolpiSt arogam         Zselati.m of eqilgemst.                             *1W3 how 3 -lu-4
X*trftmm  to automated       LeletemDpot.0-Ag3tr                                                      0apU
.  of so.  't
it  -  refm of
LOW  MON aM41 0o a £IUS          Prepae report  ldysiae preset system, WA            01-May93 throug   31-Ja-o94
Soon n3Lh31  fl81                fozssatia  got  .   rofozmd ystem.
Dorelo  a long gm plan for Inpl.m.tatlfta.          01-May-93 ti GbrOu    30-3K-94



AALWcAYIOE or wRaNoaucr oMPOUEY 3! Yu O20AXIVAYONAL gmI
DBPW  DIRE_t
Leadership DepartMt
7 Staff
Department administration
2 Staff
TOTALs 9 8TAFF
- ~~~                                ~           8 mAO  :JWSTMSVU
Regional Offlaes               Dept. of Employment Policy       Deartmt of Unmployed           Employmeont Analysis and
-O?gaiiation                   -Development of organizational  -Developing System of           Projections
-Dereloymentllmrovmernt        and Economie Foundations for    vocational Tralnig and          -Developla  Bmployment
of anC ferritorial Branches   State Regulation of B ploymea    counaselling                    and Ioplementation Polity
-Licensing Private             services                         -Developing Legal and          -Research/Analysia
Organizations                            33 staff                 ethodologlcal Foundations   Coordination
-Promting Baloy.ent                                             - Coordlnation of Regionrl   -Statlstlcal Daeta Collection
24 Staff                                                iactivities In this Field                i   tf
~~~   ~ ~~~   ~~~~~ ~24 Staff
Laibor Migration011MM                                                             WOW______ ____                      lI
and                                = Sm   =u  no m
-Trrltorial a Industrlal                    8tat- E"ployaet Fund
Labor Migration                                                -Budgeting and Financlin       International Relations
-Organized Mlgration as per   Dept. of Information systemsa      tate Employment Programs    -organization Of
lnter Oblast Agreements        -Facilitating the                -Fliance and Accounting        Internatlonal Cooperatloan
6 Staff               Computerizatlon of 6Be            -Revenues and Expendltures   -Organization of
11 staff                                              Internatlonal Exchange of
______________________is_Staff_                        p ecialists
Personnel Departmet                                                                            - o -Organization of Overseas
-Recruitment                                                                                   Fellowship
-Professional UpgradingmW   'e~                                                                           10 ftaff
0 staff                                                                               SInoration and Publishing
Depth of Legal Affalir           seC Inspection                 -Information Bgport to SEC
aint aiance Department         -Analysis of neployment           -Auditing and Supervlslon    -Preparation and Updatlng of
-Material support of SEC       La tiplemetatlon                 of the Eployment Fund          DoCufemt/Daetabse
-Janitorial                    -Int6r Agency Lialson for        -Employment Law Unforcemen   -Preparation of Loecal end
-Bookkeepkng                   Employment Leogislatlon          -Compliance and Dlspute        Foreign Materials
10 staff                          5 staff                Resolution                               .__ _
TOAL  *8 6ShAF              OTALS 49 STa"                    TOTALs 51 STaFF                TOTAL: 38 STAYF
onu TOA.  9nSAFI



65
CHART 2
RUSSIA
02LOWYUT SERVICES AND SOCIAL PtOTECTION PRWJ8CT
MINISTRY OF SOCIAL PROTECTION
THE MINISTER OF THE THE SOCIAL WELFARE OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
THE MINISTRY BOARD
The Council on The Social Policy Development
The Council on The Financial/Budget Questions
The Council on the Veterans and The Disabled
The Council on Pension Payment and Social Insurance
The Council on The Family, Maternity and Childhood
The Council on Administering/Management Questions
The Council on The International Cooperation and
Humanitarian/Technical Aid
THE CENTRAL MINISTRY STAFF
The Head Division on the Perspectives of the Social Poection of
the Citizens
The Head Division on the Pension Payment organization
The Head Division on The Organization of Social Aid
The Division on Permanent Social Service Offices
The Division on Material Aid to Veterans and the Disabled
The Head Division on Socio-Medical Expertise and Reabilitation of
the Disabled
The Head Division on the Economics and Finance
The Division of Social Ensurance
The Division on the International Humanitarian and Technical Aid
The Head Division on Automation and Information Technologies
The Division of International Cooperation
The Division on the Prosthetic Appliances and Orthopaedic Aid to
the Citizens
The Division of Cadre and Educational Institutions
The Division of the Sector Material Base Expansion
The Division of Control
The Material Division
The Letter Processing Division
The Ministry Management Division
The Mass Media and Mass Social Organization Interfacing Centre
The Division on the Legislative Expertize
The Supplies Division
The Social Aid to Families and Children Committee



66
C!1! 3
a~~~~~
o1owmau°t ervica  and RoeI*  Protection Project
DRURJDOWN OF 135 PROM=?OOU3R
STJan minguumuuus AS To P33s33TZ.
ow soauf Awo   OrA TO i  INIPD
iltt    OSMIER-  ETLY   To a
UONSL-   PJUT F    ON      3330/
____ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ __ TA M1  PAFF  Sou l  31 3 13 1   _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _
A - "boIct O"otie                                                        imw  1"
- tUbb    td Cp     * a  U       4.        4       O         4       Effeti wni
I ftI_ the a od              6         8        5         3
e - Awoatin        _      lfn                    _&w  "O
Iw1- 1:141 a svou  N3Is                           5 
0 . ECOM  AcL                        10       5 
. IBM LStt                     3         S        1        4       FelNeurch 1993
- PshU. Jb cratio                4         6       1         S       hb./irb 1995
- Jd Training                    11      20        10        10      Dun/Jis  1993
I * Lmr UaIt Polie  and_--
Poicy am       pt 
. prog"a Pling .iw d            2         3        2        1       Fdua  1*3
- = _meua   "IluatImN           4         4        2        2       J_t 119*3
od Pr"qs                      1         2        1         1 ty 199
= fISFncioniW  of Laor
* Lent LAr                      2         2        1        1       f*ruy 1993
* Laor M at   itering
* Osmtiuiul Clasiffctfan                  2        0        2       Ibrh 193
- ifl Job earc. Aid                                     _f*nary 1*3
m   *av w "obf                  3         3        1        2       Febuay-*pri 199$
Training                                                ________;   ___2____________
waLs                   a5         9       a9       40



'7
Tabi   1-2: Paletst io Eby _mie n eglArn, eNpamf, Krals, Gunt   mw cicp, 1 1  9I90
(mt-Jwmuy i thsw*
1990 w                   1991             fauty 
O.;i.... ............. ... ....... ........... ,.,,,,,, POW* pop
* ,tout   Urban   Rurl   Totat   Urban   Rurlt sq.1, 1991
Total                                                    148,041  109,29  3802  148,543 109,19   38,744        8.7
I. North                                                6,149   4,25   1,4    6,161   4,746   1,415          4.2
1. Aridialkl    btuest                                 1m      t1159     416   1,577   1,14        413     2.7
a.  wseiwle $oviet Aaawn  mammin                       55      34       21      50      34       21     03
3. Rapubtlo of Karatlo                                   7       651      145     I"      655      1       4.6
4. Reqpulc of Ka  1                                    1,265  9J 9         06   1,20f    961       304     3.0
5. Nurswakiai   Obtest                                 1.155   1.04       91   1,159   1,043        91     6.0
6. Vologodsbica  Obtlst                                1,359     892     467   1,361      898      463     9.3
It. Norvhuest                                            8.299    ,199   1,100   8,305   7,208   1,097    42.3
T. St. otenbuwrs City                                  5,C35   5,035       0   5,035   5,035         a
8. St. Potersbusrs1cle Oblest                          1.64    1,099     S"    1.670   1,103        67    78.1 1/
9. Wov9rodi  al Obtast                                   m       5       227       5       30      2s5   13.6
10. Peokvaula abtest                                     846      537     309      a5      540     305    15.3
tt. central                                              30,467  25,204   5,263  30,478  23,249   5,229    62.8
II. rirskeite Oblast                                    1.46   1.OO       476   1,44   1,000       44- 42.0
12. ienovwais Obtest                                   1t318   1,077      241   1,317   1,076      241    5S.1
13. Ketuzhata ablest                                   1t074       2      322   1,080      159     321    36.1
14. Kostramkia Obtlst                                    a11      558     253   813        560     253    13.5
15. I _nokovtefa ablest                                6,70    5.3V    1,36    6,718   5,339   1,379   334.5 2/
16. Nos.. City                                          9003   9,002        1   9,003   9,0Q2        1
17. Ortlekvia Oblest                                     69       561     336     901      S       335    36.5
18. Rfie akns  Otbest                                  1,3U       893     45   1,349       899     450    34.1
19. sli.skei ablet                                      1,163      95 m   36    1 1"       802     344   23.4
20. Tvwrskea abtest                                    1,674   1199       475   1.676   1,203      413    19.9
21. Tultefa Oblest                                      1,862   1,516     346   1.855   1 512      343    72.2
22. Vleinfrskeia Obtest                                 1,'m    1.316    s3    1,440   1322        338    57.2
23. ltrovskev a Oblest                                  1,474   1,306     20    1,476   1,209       267    40.5
Iv. Voto-Vta                                             6,473   5.       I,95   8,480   5.902   2,5         32.2
24. Riepubtc to Coaveeb                                 140         7       3   1,346      800     546    73.6
23. Kirove1a Oblast                                     1,6'm   1,196    5"2   1,7C0   1,202        498    14.1
26. Republc of "uil4.t                                   754      40      29       I       470    2n6    32.7
V. Nordvin soviet Sosiatf*t Ropubltf                     964      551     413     944    5$6       406    36.8
28. mlltorrOdkala Obtst                                3,717   2.679      83    3.712   2,84       U3S    49.6
V. Central C    _bnam                                    7,751   4.706 3*,03   7,761   4,747   3,014    46.3
29. Bl9esrdkait Oblest                                  1,391     64      5W    1,401      897      504    51.7
30. Kurskais Oblest                                     13        75      52    1.336      792      54     44.8
31. Lfpetis Obtest                                      1,81      776     45    1,234      784      450    51.2
32. T1avkat altaest                                               747       0    1,315     751      54    38.3
33. Vronabka ablest                                     247    1,516      959   2,45   1,           92    47.2
Vt. Volge                                                16,500  12,12    4,37   16,56  12,25   4,361    30.9
34. Asttekhftis alest                                   1,001     661     320   1,007      65       322    22.8
35. Repttlc of KIltki                                     325     149     17      3i2      151      177     4.3
36. Pvwenskate Obet                                     10        940     567    .s12      94       5"     35.0
3?. uam"esktia ablest                                   3.7    3.655      633   3.290   2.669      431    61.4
8. trt 0ss Obtet                                        2700   Z.007      693  2a'06   2,026        62     27.0
39. Repubi of Tetata                                    3.0     2,691     967   3,679   2,716       963    54.1
U4. Utlanvks  ablet                                     1416   1,018      3S   1,430   1,032        398    38.3
41. Volgserskie abluest                                 2,15   1,9        62    2,632   1,996       64    23.1
ns. Nrth Ceuseam                                          1669   9.661   7,18 IN 17030   9,          7.207    48.O
42. Rep6ic of Deestsu                                   1,0       Sol   1.022   1,4        616   1,08    36.9
43.  echen Repbic fed   iuAh Rep_blIc                   1,290     52       15    1.307     56       709    6?.?
4"- daftMfnlatkar tqpio                                   UB766   471     27       77      476      299    62.2
44. KIC         IterskUf kr f                           9,135   2,797   2,338   5,115   2,517   2,3        61.9
46. RpAbtIc of AdVIy                                  436     32       207     437     20       207    57.6
47. Norb-0setion Soviet Sec1*tft t  {c                    06      439      199     643     443      200    80.3
47. No kfa SObtet                                        43Soe   4.326   3.086   1.2*0 4.346   3  1.I,0    43.1
49. StevrepoltkffI ri                                   2,9    ,5M    1:334   2,9       1,573 1,33    36.3
*50. larct-Chek   Soviet Seeall: RI&MlC               422     207      215     427     2        216    30.3



68
=I*I± 1-2t Popbatcn bv              t im,  upatiet ad  Una, 19091
(m*yJslr, In #hmuW)
1990                  -1591                 Nonslty
...........        ....... ....................      I*.*
totl    Ubta    Aurl   Total   Urlbs        ural eq. ^  199
Vill. urate                                                 0,35   15s5    503        o.om    15,310   5 6       248.
51. Rep*llc of OaedorUosAn                               3.94   23.9    1,415   3,          3,74   1,410    V7.7
2. ch*tiabinsksi* Oblast                                 3.637   3,00       636   3,41    3,001      610    41.4
53. Uurwaemei Obtst                                      1,106      "       499   1.110       613     496    15.6
54. oranbgkaies Obet                                     2,183   1435        40   2194   1,432        71    17.7
55. Pormkes Obtest                                       3,106   2,404      702   3.110   3,411       499    19.4
56. Km-perwatakaie £I*ItU  btest                       160       48      112     160       48      113     4.9
57. uaee :rinbureskee Oblast                             4,76   4.13        59    4,750   4,1           f     2s
so. u^rt ASep1li.                                        1.619   1.13       482   1.6   1,145         4u      3.L
Ix. vtern  ibwria                                         1s,055   11016 4l9   1,0    1,15   11,090   4,06       6.2
59. Altaiskil   e                                        3.05   1596    1,23    2,651    1601    1,350    10.9
60. Rbstfa of Altf                                     194       93      101     16        53      143     2.1
61. Kanrovkaee Most                                      3,176   2,77       39    3,160   2,760       400    33.3
63. scvostbirsicsia Obtet                                lo73     2.09      698 3.          3,096     698    15.7
63. Idofe abst                                           3,151    1,465     66   3,163    1,47                15.3
64. Tskaia Obtest                                        1.009      695     314   1,012       69      316      3.2
65. Tianwakela Obtest                                    3,135   2,394      741   3.156    2,440      716      2.2
66. ShantyuNnritskil Atoous 01m                      1.301    1.166      115   1,314   1,201       113     2.5
67. Imt-*mnot Repll 4C95                                        334      111     493      407       6      o.?
X. astwe                                                  9,307   6,63   2,56    9,43   6.62    3,91            2.2
U. Rdepsa  of      tI1e                                  1,019      69      400   1.056      45       421      3.0
69. Chiti1eQskaeOtest                                    1         90"      476   1,39       916      476      3.2
70,* Aglkf   urytskf f Atn.m ousOlWe                    77       25     5a        78       26      53      4.1
71. irkutkale Obtest                                     2,847   2,3       54    2,33   2,314        549      3.?
73. wt#'w*_dwss    &i vkt*l laosmeoukrh                I3        as      111     13        36      112     6.2
73. KIraa tskll Ke                                       3,6132  2,637      9n    3.635   2.641       986      1.5
74. RepAl,.0 of 1hakeee                                573      417     1S6      577      419      1s6     9.3
7!. Tlcuyrakff (Oolgan takll) Atu*_. 01u                is       v       18       54       36  18          0.1
76. lvo sffnk       _ slbAut¢O m u t                    as        r      18       as        7      13    0.03
;7. Rsll¢ of Two                                           314    .149    t16        307 .  14        161      1.6
XI PFW Usut                                                8,008   6,107   1,901    Bo0      6,14     1,911      1.3
76. Aumrkala  test                                       1.066      73      342   1,074       3       34       3.0
i9. Kuestekle Obtest                                       470      62       a       473     3B4       at      1.0
80. Kwrlk Autewu    Soviet Repsl.                       39       15      24       40       1S       a5    01
61. uabavovklfl Krre                                     1,640   1,483      317   1.51    1.442       339      2.2
#3.  ewish Auton_mu O t                                2118     144      74      220      145      75      6.1
U. Ngedkeis Obtet                                          5        439     100       34     436 U9            0.4
04. cu*abf Soviet Astmnumaus R{MaA                     156      113      43      154      111      4       0.2
S. Priewsklt Kl                                          2,21    1,7I9      513   2.259    1781       515    1.9
86. Sakdstinkle Obteu t                                    713      67      106      717     612      1        6.2
6. RapsAll of ehe (TktIe)                                1,099      73      366   1,109       73      3        0.4
. rtiningakslr   Obtet                                          6     69       t#       W       701      166    56?
sams  kmfan                       sft e ot Yearbook, Nttoel1oTP o ussia in 19WP pp. 77-; Th Rhbluce f t
RusIan Uartflan by A,. 60y.
N    The ten Popation cass urs cln  ta_ In eld-4nMY, 193. Pop0In dht fer 199.0   d 1991 M              e
estle"s  an tlw bass of pop_latio  anma deft ad fnfmtln on birts en death omyltad by offtle
of th   RltVt of ita of Clvii SttW. thes poulation dt Wt reot   n a *  Fa    hees, i.e.
tme pplatIfn ft ur  lmtu  both p          m  end t_p_ay resi    In RusIn topsl an easluat
I_ntm   lde   resd     a  are t em,ety in oeth  repAtfIs ow abrod. Nititay residnts,
hao my be  sluold In poplAtion tete for teir r_tsle of foiin, cstitute a possbte   eWtion
U/ InrlUdin  t. S et- ONOe  City.
Inctudin Psse  City.



69
Table        s  Am   nd Ptpulation by loonadc   egionO
(uid-january eltUat")
Pisltation (in ThowAwh)
P- p-att Ion                                                     mr of
Ch_                 1090                                 199t              people
tOOO      We-        _                                                    pe sq. la
eq. a     perss   Total    Urben    url         Total    Urban   Rut    In 1990
Total                  17.075       7.2  140,041  109,39  38,802     146.5   109.7"   3,744          8.7
I. NIort              1.4,       9.4   6,149   4.7       1,424      6,161   4.,7     1,415         4.2
2. Nothwest             197       7.8   S299   7,1       1.100      S.305   7.206    1.9          42.1
3. Central              48        4.9  30,       5,204   5,2a      30.478  25.249   5.             6.8
4. VoltVtks             26s       1.4   6.473   5.8      2.595      6.488   5.92   2.5m            32.2
. Cntl Ch1r_            1"        0.7   ?.M      4,70    3,043      7#761   4,747   3,014          "A
6  Vote                 56        5.6  16,50   12,127   4.373       16.5,   12,    4,361         so0s
-, rth Cl      A .      356       8.1  16.86    9.661   ?*18s      17.06   9to       7,           47.4
S. Uraet                86        4.5  20,345   15,256   5,08       20.9   15,310   5,0            24.7
9. vstn Sliea    2.4,            15.8  15,005   11,016   4.0       15.156  11,090   4.00           6.2
10. Easten  ibwris    4.12       12.2   90,W     6,6     2,5"       924M    6642    t59            2.2
11. Vr gt             6,216      16.4  8$,0    6,107   1,901           5    6,1      1,911         1.3
Matiniiurad Wast         15       7.9     a7       695     1d                  7       186         58.5
Slures bSusefe Noinhat. Oi ttisticsl Veebok. NatiGmt EgonaW of 1_si1 In "Op.
Notes  Th lest  opulatIon CMWu we       nd in mid_Jewnry, 1989. hPmt eon dt for 1990 e"   199 are
eetfted an the bis of poUatien ceus data V   Infreretion en birth  NW deaths eO  led bY offitc
of the Mefltr  of Aets of Civil Sttus . The popltion data r  eptdn aode facto beso, i.e.
these population firem  Ictude both peommunt wa to_o     resident  In usian repshlic eN  exclude
tmwtwetr. de jure rosid et Weo ar temporurity in other rapkhlift or ebresLNi. titay reidens
Woo my be inetuded in P_eation tottls for thir rlpi fe of origin, onti *t oa possibte ewoe n.



70
Umloimn  Ueirvicas and          Lacia PR.tcAio   proi.ct
ZAUb 1l'  opWulation  =a   fmploymmut - sum8ary Table, 1970-71
(in u.lUios or pecent)
M97      1900     1"       191|     1990     199t
Totl peptuatlen (mid*yeet) 1/               130.1    139.0    143.9    147.6    148.3    148.9
attes                                     4".0    46.O    46.0        47.03    47.0    47.03
Famales                                    54.03    54.0%    S4.03    53.03    53.03    53.03
Urban                                      62.03    69.03     O.0     74.03    74.03    74.03
Rural                                      36.03    31.0X    27.0X    26.03    26.03    26.03
Unde 16                                             32.0              36.0               36.0
Active Age 2/                                       83.0              84.0               84.0
Abe  Active Age                                     24.0              27.6               28.9
Poputation rorwh rt                           o."      0.53     0.53     O.4      o.23     0.13
crxde birth rate                            1.5      1.6"     1.7X     1.53     1.4"      1.2X
crux death rat                              0.9S     1.1     1.1X     1.1X     1.2X      1.1t
!Etoyed-Tatat                                         73.3     74.9     75.2     74.4
Eployed-State sector                                  72.5     74.2    74.1      73.2
oales                                               47.7X    4L1X              47.6x
Fawkies                                             52.33    51.9X             52.4X
tn Industry & Construct.                            42.0     41.JX    43.03    42.83
In Agriculture                                      115.0    14.33    13.4     13.4
other Sectors                                       43.03    43.9     43.53    43.8X
of whicht eiotion nd helth                        17.53    17.9X    19.33    19.53
central boveryment                        2.33     2.43     2.33     2.3X
Rettred (Receiving pensio)                            28.3     31.2     33.2     33.8
As Percent of .plwed                               39.11    42.03    44.6X    46.2X
Sources: hid-yea popuLation estimistes lle ored Ban's Pm:; EfploVnt estfmates are Russian Goskekmtat.
1/ The breekdow for 190  e those of 1979.
2/ Include wormn aged 16.55 and cm  aed 160.



MAP SECTION



ItIRD24013
RUSSLA                                                          p       lbomppatd by     ds8 Tl.oWi.i 'aW sffe*W      ji4        us.TA. 
EMPLOYMENT SERVICES AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT                                                                                  ofdGrefl$e   ;n  ru4en%81 .
ECONOMIC  EIONf$,d R{U}S KRIS ORLATSN  OKUS                                                                                                              erin
Net-r, : 't +'< > \ 5 a                                                    A R CTI C  O CEA N                  oSenan   
NORWAY;tS                                   Barents                                                              *                 f-          /        \       L 
^89~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
D&-ENMAWA Y/                                 
I rS J ¢ ; \_ SA~~~~~~~.                                                        M  O GLIA  _NENNBUD_CBKZRFBC
RAa  o-   I  -                                                                              KllDMElBSft        P                    RUC sOOUSNr' OKRUO OR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X    . IIJRK  EN I STA   t  <\, t     ;,   z                  _                MLES dK'rd
ISlA ICREOFiEA   \-<                                         HINA      ~       t            wnduinaR -   ofhAui,Kalf#s,KiacdlaseaN
. \  <_; HFI_NL7:7eAND                                                                                                                               3ofgosrpbc c sgvni l n
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sPsI



