Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20805
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35320)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 60 MILLION
TO
THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR
AN EMPLOYMENT SERVICES AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
November 10, 2000
Russia Country Unit
Human Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Russian Ruble (RUR)
1 RUR = US$ .036
US$ 1 = RUR 27.73
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
ES                 Employment Services
FES                Federal Employment Service
GOR                Government of Russia
MLSD               Ministry of Labor and Social Development
MO                 Model Employment Office
MSP                Ministry of Social Protection
PCU                Project Coordination Unit
SAL                Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SP                 Social Protection
SPAL               Social Protection Adjustment Loan
SPIL               Social Protection Implementation Loan
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Michael Carter
Sector Manager/Director:   Michal Rutkowski
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Maribeth Macica



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    10
6. Sustainability                                                                        11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       13
9. Partner Comments                                                                      17
10. Additional Information                                                              29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    40
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                      41
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                    46
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008822                                       Project Name: Employment Services & Social
Protection Project
Team Leader: Hjalte S. A. Sederlof                        TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR           Report Date: November 17, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Employment Services & Social Protection Project    L/C/TF Number: CPL-35320
Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                   Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: SE - Labor Markets & Employment; SI - Pensions &
Social Insurance
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/24/1992                              Effective.                     09/09/94
Appraisal:  10/14/1992                                MTR:                       04/01/96
Approval:  11/24/1992                              Closing: 04/30/96             04/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA/MINISTRY OF LABOR AND SOCIAL
DEVELOPMENT
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                             Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Michael F. Carter                          Russell Cheetham
Sector Manager:      Michal Rutkowski                           Robert Liebenthal
Team Leader at ICR:   Hjalte Sederlof                          Timothy King
ICR Primary Author:   Maribeth Macica
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
A Quality at Entry review was not carried out on this project. It was prepared pre-QAG.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The development objectives of the Employment Services and Social Protection Project were to:
(i) develop the capacity of the Federal Employment Service (FES) to process the anticipated upsurge



of unemployment as a result of economic restructuring and privatization;
(ii) strengthening FES's and Ministry of Social Protection's (MSP) longer term capability to carry out
active labor market policies and deliver social safety net services; and
(iii) designing a modem social security system and reforming the pension system.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not changed formally.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following components which were to be implemented by two agencies, the FES
and the MSP.
1. Employment Services Component (US$62.7 million)
A. Project Administration: Establishment of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and an FES Staff
Training Unit.
B. Emergency Service Delivery by FES:  Phased implementation of computerized systems for
unemployment benefit claims registration and payments including the preparation of internal policies and
administrative regulations.
C. Strengthening of the FES longer-term institutional capabilities through:
(i) Design of labor market policies and management systems
(ii) Development of Program Services
(iii) Preparation of a Labor Market Information System
(iv) Establishment of a Comprehensive Employment Training Program
2. Social Protection Component (US$7.3 million)
D. Strengthening of the MSP longer-term institutional capability to a) Carry out pilot programs in at
least three oblasts for the computerization of processing pension benefits; and b) Prepare proposals for the
reform of pension policies and the design of targeted social assistance policies.
E. Design of a Modern Social Security System: Preparation of a master plan for computerized social
security scheme, including recommendations for phased-in implementation.
3.4 Revised Components:
Some background is needed when discussing the revised components. The project was developed on a fast
track in 1992 to assist the FES to respond to the anticipated upsurge of unemployment, and assist the MSP
to develop social security options. Due to delays in loan signing and effectiveness, the FES funded the
purchase of computers for processing benefits from its own resources and completed general automation,
the result of which was that a significant amount of funding was unallocated. Proposals for restructuring
were reviewed. With assistance from the PPF and the UK Know How Fund, the FES carried out
preparation work on sub-component C above which enabled them to propose expanding the number of
Model Employment Offices, introducing career counseling, making the vocational training component
much more specific, and introducing vocational rehabilitation to mainstream disabled clients into the
workplace. The MSP used the PPF to carry out pilot projects in 3 oblasts as planned. Automated pension
provision was a growing priority. Given the success of the pilots, the Government requested to increase the
investment in this area (to cover automation in 30 regions). As wider pension reform was taking a different
pace, policy activities were shifted to other operations, ie. donor activities and the Social Protection
Adjustment Loan (SPAL).
Throughout the project period taxation of goods was a problem. This was because (a) the tax exemption
- 2 -



status of intemationally financed projects was removed, presenting the project with an unplanned expense;
and (b) the general fiscal situation made transfers to cover tax obligations difficult. This was a particularly
acute problem for the Employment component, resulting in an additional reduction in the scope, mainly
procurement vocational training equipment. The MSP had been better able to secure funds to cover
customs duties and taxes on equipment from the regional level, while the FES was unable to do this by its
mandate and had insufficient funds in the Employment Fund to cover taxes. Since automated pension
administration was proceeding well, the Government requested a further expansion, from 30 to 56 regions
of the Russian Federation (RF).
The revised components were as follows:
1. Employment Services Component (US$15 million)
A. Project Administration: Establishment of a PCU and an FES Staff Training Unit.
B. Strengthening of the FES longer-term institutional capabilities through the following distinct activities:
(i) Development of Model Employment Offices at oblast level to replicate new approaches to
management and client services;
(ii) Development of a Vocational Training program;
(iii) Introduction of Careers Counseling;
(iv) Development of an Information strategy;
(v) Testing options for dealing with large scale unemployment in Economically Devastated Areas;
(vi) Development of Program services to reach a variety of unemployed persons (ie. introduction of Job
Clubs and Mobile Employment Offices);
(vii) Introduction of Vocational Rehabilitation to mainstream disabled clients into the workplace.
2. Social Protection Component (US$45 million): Building on the initial pilot, carry out automated
pension administration in a wider range of regions.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
While the project contains appropriate elements for improving employment services and social protection,
its objectives may have been too ambitious for the conditions that existed at the time (1992-93) in Russia,
and in light of the Bank's understanding of the Russian context. Subsequent adjustments to the project, and
components not undertaken, would seem to confirm that. Still, it is commendable that in light of the
constraints under which the project was initially prepared, its major immediate substantive components
were implemented successfully (see below).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
With a state-owned sector accounting for 77% of total employment in 1991, and decline in industrial output
of 20% in 1990-91, following trends in OECD countries, it was thought inevitable that mass redundancies
would overtake the system. The FES was, at the time, over-stretched, under resourced, and generally
unable to deliver effective services, especially at local level. The MSP had at the same time become
responsible for making pension payments. In the midst of an ongoing changes to the pension system, the
system of manual recording could no longer be relied upon. Local social assistance targeting left much to
be desired. Both agencies were in need of assistance to improve their functions.
In this context the development objectives were relevant and were generally consistent with the Bank's and
- 3 -



the Government's Strategies. Key medium-term objectives of the Bank in the 1992 Report of the President
on the Rehabilitation Loan were "strengthening the social safety net to protect vulnerable groups during the
reform process, assisting in labor force restructuring and developing the human resource skills and
institutional capacity needed to support a market based economy".  The Social Protection Adjustment
Loan (SPAL) (1997-2000) introduced policy conditions to further similar objectives. The development
objectives continued to remain valid throughout the project period. The December 1999 CAS identified the
need to "Improve efficiency, financial management and transparency of the operations of the Pension Fund
and the Federal Employment Fund." The CAS also noted that "a balance between adequate protection and
the avoidance of dependency incentives for those otherwise able to work is also an important issue, but
particularly sensitive to the extent that more rapid industrial restructuring may likely initially generate
increased unemployment."
In retrospect however, the objectives were somewhat overstated for the level of input by the project, in
particular for (ii) and (iii). Having said that, at the same time the environment changed, in particular, the
economy continued to shrink practically over the whole period, labor shedding was more modest than
expected and the pace of pension reform has been much slower. These developments had implications for
the project and influenced project restructuring. The economic slowdown placed different needs on
employment services, and the uncertainty about the ultimate scope and direction of pension reform required
a much more modest approach than the project objectives envisaged.
Although the restructured project fit broadly within the original objectives, in hind sight, the development
objectives should have been revised during restructuring. What emerged was a focus on more achievable
elements: one, laying the foundation for developing a modem employment service and two, facilitating the
pensions payment function. Judging the project by these objectives, the project did make substantial
achievements.
4.2 Outputs by components:
1. Employment Services (US$15 million)
A. Project Administration: This sub-component supported a PCU in the FES and development of Staff
Training in the organization generally. The PCU was financed substantially by the UK Know How Fund.
The PCU was headed by an Employment specialist/project manager, an accountant/administrator,
translator, with short term consultant services for procurement assistance. The unit interacted with heads
of department of the FES to effectively administer the project. Having an employment specialist in the
PCU was key in assisting the FES in take effective management decisions, such as how to split Model
Offices (below) to gain best international practice, it also meant there was some one to guide the FES
through a very new experience. In the Staff Training subcomponent, senior managers were trained in new
policy making skills. Employment promotion programs skills were disseminated throughout the service.
Ninety staff of the FES were trained in benefit fraud prevention and investigation, which has become an
ongoing function throughout the service.
B. Strengthening of the FES
(i) Development of Model Employment Offices.  This sub-component aimed at improving the
organizational structure and infrastructure of selected offices and disseminating results on a wider basis.
The program included three categories, namely A (18 offices), B (15 offices), and C (6 offices). A and B
type MOs were designed to do the following:
offer a full list of services to the unemployed;
enhance relations with employers;
-4 -



increase the quality and quantity of active and passive programs;
* test new programs and services;
train officers of regional employment centers to implement the programs at raion level and in other
regions.
The main difference between type A MOs and type B MOs was that type A offices supported staff training
centers for staff outside the region where the MO was located. Category C offices were set up in regions
with a critical labor market situation, therefore the employment services of those regions were authorized to
cut down the list of programs and services depending on the labor market changes.
Formal criteria for selecting MOs was based on (i) support from the oblast employment center and local
govemment, (ii) sufficient modem equipment and available office space to accommodate a client friendly
environment; (iii) resources to add more staff to the selected employment center, if needed; and (iv) a track
record of innovative handling the unemployed. To effectively test out new techniques, the MOs were
established in urban settings to take advantage of large catchment areas.
A total of 39 Model Offices with a wide geographic spread (see map in section 10) were created and
provided with technical assistance from international consultants from Scotland, Sweden, France,
Germany, Canada and other countries. The ES took best practices from these countries and adjusted them
to local conditions. In each MO, one staff member was assigned to be the "replicator" and disseminate the
experience of the Model Office within the region, and then onto neighboring regions. Over 2600
employment officers, at local and regional level, were trained, and a mechanism for ongoing staff training
was created. Guides/manuals were developed and disseminated to all employment offices in the system (ap
proximately 2400). Judging by visits to non-MOs, the project has assisted in establishing national
standards, with most employment offices now capable of providing a full package of modem employment
services. The demonstration effect is impressive. The ES and local employment services have in many
cases continued collaboration with international partners after the project period.
The Beneficiary Survey conducted as part of this ICR indicates that the MOs are beginning to have an
effect on increased employment. Although a full evaluation is not available, in the areas covered by the
four MOs included in the Beneficiary Survey, the level of registered unemployment fell, suggesting that
improved efficiency in the MOs contributed to an increased level of employment.
(ii) Development of a Vocational Training program. This sub-component assisted the Employment
Service to move away from traditionally very rigid approaches to vocational training, to become more
flexible and linked to local labor market needs. 242 trainers were trained in modern teaching techniques, to
monitor and adapt their training programs to the market. 60 trainers were trained in teaching the
self-employment and entrepreneurial skills. Multimedia training programs for 15 professions were
developed (hairdressing, catering, auto repair construction, clothing, gas welding, gas-boiler operator,
tower crane operator, highway machine operator, computer technology, office assistant, plumbing,
banking, autocrane operator, etc); 34 regional training centers (out of 89 in the Federation) were equipped
with 48 multimedia computer training class-rooms.
Modern training programs were developed for food processing, construction, sewing and auto mechanics
and implemented in 3 model centers which were equipped with specialized equipment - Ryazan (sewing
equipment), Smolensk (auto-repair workshop) and Saratov (dairy processing equipment).  While
specialized equipment was procured for these centers only, the centers served as clusters for their respective
regions. The amount of equipment originally envisaged for this component was significantly reduced, given
problems with funding taxes and delays in clearing customs. A comprehensive training program was not
- 5 -



produced as a result, however scaled back activities still allowed the ES to make some substantial gains.
With assistance from consultants, the ES learned to make their programs more efficient through
monitoring. In some areas, they have begun to sub-contract. According to the Employment Services, the
proportion of those who found a job after they completed a training program is quite high (76.9% on
average in 1999, up from 61% in 1992). Although the basis for this statistic is suspect since the ES
requires advance placement before training begins, feed back from the Beneficiary Survey was generally
positive.  The survey provides some very preliminary evidence that suggests that professional
specializations of the training courses correspond with current labor market demands. However, in order to
assess real impact of the programs, a rigorous evaluation needs to be undertaken. This is proposed to be
carried out with support of the Social Protection Implementation Loan (SPIL).
(iii) Introduction of Careers Counseling. Careers counseling units were established in 20 regional
employment offices; 150 senior counseling staff trained in modern counseling and management techniques;
20 staff trained in the development and production of careers information materials. Training materials and
procedural handbooks were distributed to employment centers throughout the RF. The Beneficiary Survey
indicates the demand for career counseling and guidance is growing.
(iv) Development of an Information strategy. An information strategy was developed which has helped to
minimize the job seeking period and enhance public awareness on individual rights with regard to
employment, and the main services provided by employment offices. Job seekers have good access to
information of vacancies, and can use computers for independent job searching.
(v) Testing options for dealing with large scale unemployment in. Economically Devastated Areas.
Social partnerships in 3 pilot regions (Vladimir, Ivanovo and Kirov) were developed. This entailed
developing guidelines and recommendations of establishing of social partnerships, and selection of small
enterprises for receipt of revolving loan funds under job creation schemes. Full scale operation of these
partnerships was not achieved. The proposed financing arrangement of setting up special regional funds in
the three partnership areas would have required a major amendment to the loan agreement and a financial
management plan. Just as the FES was seeking clearance for the proposals from the Ministry of Finance,
the August 1998 crisis came about, and weakened the financial underpinnings of this proposal.
Additionally, a change of Ministers meant less political support for the program. As the project was due
to close within one year, it was thought not realistic that the program could be implemented within that time
frame. Considering these factors the Bank discouraged the proposal. However, these pilots do set the
stage for future programs in job creation and could be an important mechanism if they are properly
developed from the outset of a project, and assuming an improved financial sector.
(vi) Development of Program services. The main objectives of the Job Club program was to (i) provide
effective job search skills, (ii) provide information about vacancies, and (iii) assist long term unemployed to
become more self reliant. Job Clubs are now present throughout the Employment Service, with over 200
hundred staff trained as Job Clubs leaders. While for some categories of unemployed, Job Clubs were an
effective program with a minimal investment, their main function evolved to perform a role in avoiding
social exclusion.
To bring services closer to the population in remote rural areas where many clients find it difficult to visit
employment centers, 6 Mobile Employment Offices are functioning with assistance from the project.
Job-descriptions for officers in charge of Mobile Offices and procedural handbooks for their operation were
developed. Specially equipped vehicles were procured to served as Mobile Offices. This was an innovative
way of providing services to remote areas, where residents would lack transportation to get to rayon
- 6 -



offices. As an example, in the Murmansk region a remote population of 45,000 is served by a Mobile
Office, providing service to settlements with high unemployment which would normally be left without
sufficient coverage. This program was not without problems: several regions experienced delays in
clearing the equipment through customs, noted complications with maintenance agreements with the foreign
supplier, and pointed out that the vehicles have some drawbacks in responding to inclement weather.
(vii) Introduction of Vocational Rehabilitation. Model centers for Vocational Rehabilitation for the
Disabled were established in Chelyabinsk, Voronezh, Lipetsk and Moscow. The centers were equipped
with specialized training and assessment equipment. 20 training courses in assessment and rehabilitation
techniques were delivered to staff from the 4 pilot centers. The Employment Service funded from its own
resources the premises and their re-fitting to suit clients with disabilities. Each pilot center became quite
effective in providing training to disabled clients. For example, in Voronezh, 31 professions are currently
taught in the Center; in five years of operation, 6,000 people were trained.
Although nationwide, numbers of disabled persons applying for benefits, increased from 22,200 in 1997 to
37,300, replication of this activity was not as successful as in the MOs. With a non-traditional activity,
support from the federal level is required for active replication. The contradictory regulatory framework
also limited introduction of these services on a wider basis.  Under existing legislation clients in
rehabilitation courses, even before they find a job, lose their disability status and related benefits, thus
discouraging them from attending the rehabilitation centers. The link between loss of the ability to work
and loss of health is also complicated.
Component Assessment
Not withstanding the experience of replication in the Vocational Rehabilitation sub-component,
implementation of the Employment Services Component on the whole was satisfactorily. The reduced
scope of the component meant interventions were more modest, but more focused on the real needs of the
organization. The regional dimension of the component was a key element. The Model Office
sub-component served as the centerpiece, aiming at developing functional employment offices that had staff
with the requisite skills to provide a broad array of active services appropriate for the labor market
situation in the catchment area, and provide training and guidance to other employment offices. The
criteria for selection of MOs ensured that these would be located in environments where active programs
would in fact be useful and applied, and the training and outreach programs were likely to have a
demonstration effect and provide continued training. Complementary activities, for example Career
Counseling, Job Clubs, Mobile Offices, Staff Training, Vocational Training (traditional and for the
disabled), and developing community partnerships for economically devastated areas, enhanced the services
provided to the unemployed. Thus, in principle, the design of the employment services component was
appropriate.
2. Social Protection Component (US$ 45 million)
Pensions
This component supported the MSP to develop improved pensions administration, i.e. modernization of
processing and payments of pension benefits. Initially the component had a much more modest objective of
executing a pilot program in three regions: Tverskaya, Smolenskaya, and Bryanskaya. The scope of the
modernization effort was limited, consisting primarily of the installation of computers, development of a
simple pensions management application software, and the training of computer specialists and local office
staff in the use of the delivered equipment and the application software.
- 7 -



Building on the success of the pilot, the scope of the component was increased. By the end of the project,
2266 rayon and regional social protection divisions (pension services) in 77 regions of the RF had been
provided with up-to-date computer equipment. This meant provision of 14,000 automated working places,
creating the basis for a national system, and the ability to shift over time to the introduction of a unified
pension agency.
While there were no major problems with the supplier's performance during either first or second phase in
spite of the split responsibility for the implementation effort (regions were responsible for ensuring that
offices had power and a network infrastructure prepared prior to equipment delivery), implementation did
suffer delays in customs clearance because of lack of understanding of procedures by the regional offices
and insufficient funding for payment of taxes.  The latter meant some offices were not included in the
pension automation effort.
Pension Management Application Software: In spite of the countrywide nature of the modernization
effort the MLSD did not impose a single application software standard on the regions. Although the
borrower indicates that different versions of software used by the regions are capable of producing similar
statistics required by the MLSD, a unified system is encouraged. Regional authorities indicated that they
were satisfied with the functionality and reliability of the pension application software implemented by the
project. Basic functionality included management of work history, wages and salaries, and pension
calculation. Some regions implemented additional functionality which included processing of other social
benefits, legal advice on pension-related laws and regulations, and statistical processing for standard
reporting. Some offices have also implemented accounting and other administrative procedures.
Utility of the Investment: The investment has had a high level of direct and indirect positive utility,
enabling Social Protection offices to improve the quality of services provided to the population. Most of
the computers delivered, even during the pilot phase, are still in use. Regional and local offices have
extended the capacity of these computers to the extent possible, to obtain maximum benefit from the
investrnent. Regions and local offices had purchased additional computers, additional or enhanced
software, and upgraded the hardware delivered by the project, and implemented rudimentary wide area
networks to integrate the local and regional offices, using their own resources.
Training:  500 regional technical specialists were trained and certified for operation the delivered
hardware/software and training of users in their regions. Local office staff have been trained and have
become conversant with the new approach to providing pension services. Ability to work with computers
has increased the level of personal job satisfaction and pride in the work done. The project did not fully
contemplate the investment in technical staffing (other than provision of technical training) necessary to
manage the information technology infrastructure. Fortunately, because of the high quality of manpower
available in Russia, the regions and local offices were able to locate staff who could absorb these functions.
Improvements: The key improvements in service level were:
Reduced the time to process and issue a new pension from about 30 to 2 days;
* Complaints by pensioners regarding errors in the calculation of pension benefits reduced. For example,
in Kaluga the number of errors reported annually was reduced from about 700 to 5;
* Eliminated delays in the updating of the pension amount because of indexation or other general change.
Recalculation is now carried out in a few days, at the most;
- Provided pensioners that are given by law different options for pension calculation with the possibility
to select optimum pension; and
-8 -



* Reduced the average time to respond to pensioners queries from one hour to a few minutes because
staff no longer have search paper records and research applied legislation from legal manuals.
Although there were no indications of reduction in staff numbers, there was an indication that the level
of productivity has been increasing reducing the need for new staff. Additionally pressure on the staff
and use of overtime during pension recalculation times have been eliminated.
Social Assistance (SA) Pilots
Part of the Loan funds were used to assist the MLSD meet conditions of the SPAL in 1997/98 - ie,
computerization of SA pilot programs conducted in Komi, Voronezh and Volgograd. Computer and office
equipment were provided to these 3 participating regions. Provision of this equipment enabled social
workers to process claims quicker, have more time with the clients, and to minimize time applicants would
normally spend waiting in lines. It also allowed social workers to upgrade their computer skills and receive
training in methodologies of means testing. The SA pilot was technically part of a different loan (SPIL)
which may have complicated the automation, never the less, there was effective cooperation between the
PCU, the Russian Foundation for Social Reforms, regional authorities and the MLSD, and the equipment
was successfully procured and put into operation.
Component Assessment
In an environment where the responsibilities for collection, recording and payment of pensions were the
responsibility of several agencies, and consideration of appropriate strategies for the pension system still
lay very much in the future, the focus on improving delivery was correct. The approach, first to pilot
procedures and then to expand them nationally as quickly as possible was sensible. The other elements of
the original component D(b) and E are still being discussed in the country assistance strategy.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
This project did not have formal indicators to measure the institutional development impact. The issue
should perhaps be reviewed on several levels. For the FES, since donor TA and FES resources had been
used to reorganize FES top management, the scope of federal capacity building was limited to staff
training. Reorganizing service delivery using the demonstration effect of the Model Offices, allowed the
institutional network to be upgraded. The Beneficiary Survey and site visits indicate that a cadre of
professional, dedicated staff has been developed and is serving the unemployed. Systems are now in place
to continue upgrading their skills, and to attract fresh recruits of qualified individuals. Interaction with the
employers and the community has improved. Employment offices have become more responsive to client
feedback. These factors would indicate a substantial institutional development impact. It is difficult to
measure if this changed at federal level when the FES and MSP merged. At regional level, again judging
by site visits, these achievements appear to have been maintained.
The project did not envisage institutional capacity building per say in the MSP. This would have required
a larger scale public service reform. The focus was instead on the delivery of computers. However, with
the introduction of information technology, ability for policy monitoring has been to a certain extent
strengthened. As more processes have been automated, staff may also be used in different ways, increasing
-9-



organizational flexibility.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency.
Sectoral issues: Unemployment was very slow to materialize, and pension reform proceeded at a very
different pace than expected, thus changing the policy environment within which the project would operate.
Few would have predicted this outcome. But by re-focusing the project on service delivery, the project has
played an important role in laying the foundation for a modem employment and social security system as
real policy reform takes shape.
Generalfiscal situation: The sector was operating under constrained budgets, and for most of the period
was under budget sequestration. This effected resources for provision of active labor market programs,
and the FES ability to meet tax obligations, thereby reducing the scope of the component. Two bank crises
took place during project implementation, further deteriorating matters. The first was the bankruptcy of the
Optimum Bank where the Special Account for the FES was held, which forced the Ministry of Finance to
recover this part of the loan. The second was the banking crisis resulting from the economic collapse of
August 17, 1998. Special accounts had to be re-opened in a bank pre-approved by the Ministry of Finance.
As these were not commercial banks, the level of service and time to open the accounts became
considerable affecting disbursement. The August 17, 1998 crisis paralyzed not only the banking and
finance system in Russia, but devaluation of the ruble aggravated the problem of payment of taxes and
customs duties (below) and fulfillment of the counterpart contribution to the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Taxation: When the loan agreement for this project was signed and made effective, international projects
had a tax free status, and funding to cover these obligations were not planned during project preparation.
Around 1995 the Government changed this policy and customs duties and taxes applied. The FES had
intended to fund these taxes from the Employment Fund, but the MSP was in a more difficult position.
After pressure from the Bank, agreement was secured from the Ministry of Finance to cover the duties and
taxes on first several equipment deliveries from the federal level budget. But by the first and second
quarters of 1996, the budget was limited and the MSP was forced to require the regions to cover their own
taxes. This delayed implementation of Phase 1, which consequently required additional resources to pay
penalties and storage of equipment on customs warehouses.
At the end of Phase 1, and even in Phase II when the regions clearly guaranteed payment of customs duties
and taxes from local budgets, some of them were unable to appropriate the funds on time and in the full
amount. Without federal level funds, the MSP could not assist the poorer regions. At the same time, as
resources became scare in the Employment Fund, the FES found it could no longer guarantee the payment
of the required duties and taxes on equipment to be procured in the vocational training component, and thus
had to reduce the scope of the project.
A greater level support from the federal level budget would have clearly prevented these delays. However,
as other projects were able to resolve simnilar issues, it seems greater coordination within the Government
(between MSP, FES, and Ministry of Finance), should have also been evident.
Customs clearance: In some regions delays occurred not only because of budget deficits but because of
differences in interpretation of regional legislation by regional customs committees.  Most regional
authorities were ill equipped to clear goods through customs.
- 10-



Ministry Management: Frequent changes in the Government, as well as ministry management affected
project progress. Between 1994 and 2000 there were 7 ministers. Each change required time to become
familiar with the project. In several cases, the ministers sought to change or halt on-going activities. In
particular, in 1998 the then minister effectively shut down the Social Protection component, preventing
contracts from being signed, and delaying payments of PCU salaries for several months. In 1997 the FES
and the MSP merged to become the Ministry of Labor and Social Development (MLSD), this further
complicated matters.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Figuring prominently throughout this section of the ICR is the issue of taxes and customs duties, discussed
immediately above. The MLSD seemed to be unable to exercise authority or influence with other areas of
the government to resolve the situation. Perhaps it was the lack of the same standing as other ministries, or
lack of political will which prevented this. Frequent changes in ministers, pressing issues requiring urgent
attention, and fluctuating levels of project ownership, inhibited the ability to facilitate a real solution.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Through several project restructurings, final reallocations were as follows: Employment Services
Component US$ 15 million, Social Protection Component US$ 45 million, and an unallocated amount of
US$ 10 million was canceled from the loan. Cost changes in the traditional sense (price increases, deficient
estimates, contingencies, etc) were not an issue for this project.
Implementation and disbursement delays
The loan agreement specified a closing date of April 26, 1996. Several extensions were granted in the
course of project restructuring. From loan effectiveness in September 1994, to loan closure April 30, 2000
a span of six years elapsed. The project reached 93% disbursement, US$ 55.6 million.
The main sources of delay are attributed to the above mentioned difficulties in payment of taxes and duties.
Other sources of delay were related to procurement. It took the PCU(s) some time to build capacity to
implement the Bank's procurement requirements. ICBs for computer procurement went off schedule, for
example the evaluation report for Phase II computerization was delayed by over 3 months. This combined
with the change in ministers, and delayed contract signature, caused the final delays. In 1998, the
employment component PCU was disbanded and unfinished business was not properly transferred to the
Social Protection PCU. This lead to confusion in closing out final contracts, arranging for customs
clearance and payments, and arranging for the 1998 annual audit, which became the source of several
"unsatisfactory" implementation ratings in the Bank's Project Status Report. These matters were corrected
by early 2000, and the project was upgraded to "satisfactory".
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The prospects for project sustainability is substantial.
The Employment Service maintains links with foreign partners established under the project which will
assist them in continuing to innovate the service. Well organized dissemination practices should assist in
further development. Deep structural changes introduced by the project should sustain the achievements of
the project:
Reorganization of departments: Staff are located in more modern divisions following international
models, split into several departments, for example Financial and Employment. The Employment
- 11 -



Department is comprised of employment specialists, career and training consultants, and an expert
in vacancy collection and employer relations. Industry-specific methods of serving clients, both
employers and the unemployed has enhanced staff effectiveness.
Testing, assessment and planning of employment staff work: Individual workplans and
performance reviews are now a part of personnel policy. Qualification testing prior to hiring a new
employee is organized to raise the caliber of staff.
Employment service marketing. All Model Offices, as well as most other employment offices
inform employers and the local communities about the activities of the employment service through
mass media (radio, television, newspapers). Information is also disseminated among school-leavers.
Employment services are also marketed through job vacancy fairs, guaranteed interviews, and
informal meetings with employers.
The local employment services have budgeted for maintenance of equipment received under the project.
For example the operational guide developed in the Mobile Office program, covers ongoing maintenance
and operation. Depreciation of equipment provided is on the budget of each employment office.
One questionable activity in terms of sustainability is Vocational Rehabilitation for the Disabled. While
the numbers of disabled persons applying for benefits are increasing, unless there is support from the
central level to disseminate lessons leamed, and make changes to regulations, while these activities
represent a good start to dealing this issue, they may not be sustainable. Generally, as the ES develops
further, it will need to look at affordability issues.
In the Social Protection component, some regions have purchased additional computers and software, or
upgraded the hardware delivered by the project, and are implementing to a certain extent wide area
networks. Although, the project did not fully contemplate the long term sustainability of the investment in
equipment (obtaining a government guarantee that budget would be provided for maintenance and
replacement of the equipment as it technically depreciated), capacity in the regions has to some extent
averted this potential problem. There is however still a medium risk that without an social protection
information strategy, the effectiveness of the project could be reduced. The MLSD has indicated this is
being taken up.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not Applicable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
In preparing the project, the Bank team drew on lessons of other bank projects in the social sector,
particularly in the ECA region, and international trends. The team was comprised of economists, and
employment, training, social protection, information technology specialists, and procurement/disbursement
staff. This was the first social sector project in Russia. At the time, pressing needs and a sense of urgency
from the donor community necessitated an immediate intervention, and an ambitious program, which later
was adjusted into more achievable goals. Working with the Federal Employment Service, which was a new
organization, somewhat outside the realm of regular bureaucracy, gave a sense that the project could move
quickly, although over time, this proved not to be the case.
7.2 Supervision:
- 12 -



A similar staff complement was maintained during supervision. In the first two years of supervision,
frequent supervision missions provided effective monitoring.  While the project made significant
investments in employment services, there was less focus on policy and support for changing legislation.
The level of automation actually implemented by the Social Protection component was drastically higher
than originally planned, and became out of balance with the investment in the development of social policy.
To a certain extent, as the project was restructured, employment and pension policy came under the umbre
lla of the SPAL. However, the pace of policy development was very slow. Therefore, it may have been
somewhat of a risk relying only on the linkages with the adjustment lending.
When the ECA region was reorganized, in Fall 1997, team leadership changed. As the project was thought
to be nearing an end and the supervision effort slowed down and missions became less frequent relying on
staff in the field. Supervision focused on day to day operational issues.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
In future, a balance between policy and investment in operations is recommended. Generally, in view of the
significant achievements the project did make, the Bank performance may be judged as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower prepared the project well. The design was sound for the conditions in the country at the
time. The PPF was used effectively during the interim period of Loan approval and Loan signing. Terms
of Reference and implementation plans were put into place. However, the FES and MSP were
inexperienced in working with the World Bank and navigating their way through GOR bureaucracy to
obtain necessary documentation in order to sign the loan, causing initial delays.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
As facilitators of Bank projects, ministries of finance can be instrumental in resolving issues such has
taxation. Because of a combination of lack of coordination between FES/MSP and the Ministry of
Finance, and perhaps completing internal pressures, or lack of capacity, this role was not fulfilled.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall the level of project ownership was satisfactory. It was greater at the regional level. At federal
level, it was somewhat more strained. Assigning sub-component responsibility to heads of department with
FES/MSP coordination councils over seeing them, was meant to build capacity at the federal level.
However, often heads of department were burdened by their daily work, and relied heavily on the PCU for
substantive implementation, rather than pure coordination. Frequent changes in Ministers, as well as the
merge of the two agencies into the MLSD, also had an impact.
To the extent possible, the PCUs did an excellent job of coordinating activities in 85 regions of the country.
While the regional approach to project implementation ultimately proved successful, the intensity of work
associated with these tasks were somewhat underestimated.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The implementing agency, FES/MSP, did a reasonable job of managing the project in difficult
circumstances. With greater Inter-Ministerial coordination, resolution of difficult problems could have
been more effective. However, on the whole, the Borrower's performance can be rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
General
- 13 -



Design: The general design of this project was sound, however, the objectives somewhat ambitious. Upon
adjustment, they were more attainable, and the focus correct. In light of what is known now about
conditions in transitional economies, one lesson that can be taken from this project is the importance in
setting realistic project objectives.
Monitoring Indicators: This project was designed before Logframes were in full use in Bank projects.
Consequently no performance or outcome indictors were defined.  This has made measurement of
effectiveness of the intervention difficult.
Policy development: Both a strength and a weakness of this project was that it relied on the SPAL for the
policy dialogue. Sequencing of reforms with implementation could not be coordinated. Future investment
projects could be more effective if coupled with real policy monitoring and development.
Regional Approach: The regional focus of this project was the largest contributor to its success and in
many ways  grass roots changes were effected. However, in difficult fiscal times, the dimensions of
regional partnerships have to be carefully considered and involvement of regional authorities in defining the
level of investment is important.
Employment Component
Legal framework: The current Employment Law adopted in 1991, although amended several times, does
not fully correspond to new realities (ie. Vocational Training for the Disabled). A new legal framework for
labor relations and in provision of employment services is required. While ongoing SPIL and SPAL
projects are responding to a certain extent to this challenge, future projects should consider how the legal
environment could affect implementation.
Replication: A highly organized system of replication can have a significant impact. There is a risk with
all cascade type training systems that the knowledge obtained at the first level will not filter down. If
properly administered, it can be quite effective. In the case of the Employment Service it worked because
there was a significant will and a complimentary infrastructure for staff development. For other projects,
these aspects should be reviewed at preparation.
International Experience:  The Employment Service very effectively took the best elements of
international experience and adapted it to the Russian context. This came out of research in developing
short lists and designing multiple "lots" of TA. For example, the Model Office component was deliberately
spilt into several categories and geographical areas in order to bring in 2-3 different international
approaches. This should be considered in future projects.
Evaluations: The design of the Employment component did envisage evaluations of the services supported
by the component, in particular Vocational Training. Although this will be done through the SPIL, future
projects would benefit from including tools for measuring effectiveness of programs.
Social Protection Component
Balance of investments:  The current operation successfully achieved its objectives of piloting an
automated pension management environment in three regions, and in deploying the system more widely
throughout the Russian Federation. It must be understood though, that the modernization steps undertaken
by the project were rather modest and provides the MLSD with just a very basic infrastructure to carry out
- 14 -



the administration of payments of pension benefits timely and with accuracy.
Future operations would need to go further than just tackling benefit administration and regional or national
statistical analysis. Any future operation should attempt to review and optimize the country's Social
Protection policy and put in place modem institutional arrangements, policies and procedures. They should
also contemplate support for strong policy analysis and evaluation units. A comprehensive information
strategy, including resource planning for periodic upgrading, is also essential.
Uniformity Processes and Procedures: Achieving uniformity of processes and procedures in a country is
a common objective of most projects with large IT components. This is necessary to ensure uniform
treatment of the citizenry regarding award decisions and payment level of federally managed benefits. In
addition, operational costs are minimized and it promotes even quality of statistics collected on the delivery
of benefits to the population. In the specific case of this project, because the original intent was to carry
out only a small pilot, no conditionality was imposed on the implementation of uniform processes,
procedures or application software environment. The lesson learned is that uniformity does not happen
naturally. In spite of the MLSD through ZANAS offering free software to the regions, still many regions
opted to build their own solutions or to purchase solutions developed by other regions.
Technical Staffing: It is a good practice to define the levels, terms of reference, and qualifications of
technical staffing necessary to support the implementation of complex information technology investments.
In the case of this project, because the original intent was to carry out only a small pilot, the technical
staffing necessary to support implementation was not fully defined, nevertheless, regional and local offices
are well supported by technical staff.  Correction of this deficiency was possible because implementation
was so much the responsibility of regional and local offices and tradeoffs could be easily be made at the
local level. In future this should be kept in mind and project allocations made accordingly.
Procurement of Information Technology: In many projects, procurement of information technology
goods and services is often mentioned as an area of difficulty in project implementation. Most of thle
activities in this component of the project were related to the procurement of information technology. The
Borrower indicated that it was able to carry out the procurement activities without difficulties.
Procurement activities under the project were carried out with constant technical assistance of an individual
consultant who is fully acquainted with Bank's IT procurement requirements. The consultant participated
in all phases of the procurement activity from the determination of requirements, through preparation of
bidding documents, and evaluation of proposals. The consultant was also the main advocate of the
Borrower before the Bank and the Bidders. This approach proved to be efficient and effective for the major
procurement actions undertaken by the project.
Project Management
PCUs: With frequent changes in government and within the MLSD, continuity in the PCU was key.
However the PCU(s) were not set up without difficulty. The PCU was one of the first examples of a PCU
within a ministry. Because of low capacity within line ministries to implement projects, later projects
developed foundations to implement projects.  The level of capacity in FES/MSP was somewhat
overestimated. Initially the FES PCU was funded by the UK Know How Fund. When that financing ran
out the FES reluctantly requested Bank financing for the PCU. Similar problems arose in the MSP, which
because of the original design had no PCU and relied on management by MSP staff. As the component
scope increased, so did project management demands. The MSP hired individual consultants from
ZANAS, a state enterprise, to form the PCU. This in itself called into question some serious issues.
However, as the project closing date was thought to be imminent, these arrangements were accepted. While
- 15-



the PCUs had coordination councils within FES/MSP, they had less Inter-Ministerial over-sight than their
counterparts in foundations, which may have been more effective in solving difficult problems such as
taxation.
Obviously these factors could not have been envisaged during project preparation, however, future projects
should ensure early establishment of PCUs with clear roles and responsibilities, with adequate over-sight,
and defined financing arrangements. The experience of project management in this project also raises the
issue of types of project management arrangements to be used under Bank financed projects. Unfortunately
it does not easily point to a clear answer. Although there where difficulties in executing the project within
the ministry, the use of foundations raises other complex issues such as capacity building, levels of salary,
and sustainability.
Information Exchange with other PCUs: The Borrower indicated that project management workshops,
training, Country Portfolio Review meetings, and seminars with other Human Development or Social
Protection PCU Staff in the region were very useful. This information exchange is important, especially
for new PCU/PIUs.
Taxation:  Targeted regions managed their investments wisely and enthusiastically.  Decentralized
financing of taxes proved to be a difficult in practice. For any future projects clear arrangements for the
financing and payment of taxes should be agreed at the onset of project preparation.
Decentralization of Customs Clearance: The decision to decentralize Customs clearance to the regions
during the second phase of implementation had positive and negative sides. On one hand it gave the regions
more control over the process and in some sense it developed regional capacity to manage complex project
implementation. Unfortunately, Customs did not adopt uniform procedures and requirements for all
regions, and confusion ensued in several cases causing delays in the release of equipment and storage fees
to be charged as a consequence. In some instances, Customs pawned some of the equipment to guarantee
payment, disrupting installation and acceptance procedures. Regional offices indicated their dissatisfaction
with the process. Use of Customs decentralization needs to be done with care and central attention toward
facilitating the process. It is recommended that whenever Customs processing is decentralized, central
arrangements be made to ensure uniform procedures and requirements and that instructions be issued to the
regions on how to execute the process.
Domestic Procurement: The Borrower indicated that use of Russian firms/suppliers could have been
greater. The capacity of the private sector from the beginning of this project was very low, but this has
changed dramatically. tn future projects, this should be possible.
- 16-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Translation
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
EMPLOYMENT SERVICES AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
LOAN 3532-RU
May 2000 (revised July 2000)
Project Coordination Unit
Ministry of Labor and Social Development
of the Russian Federation
-17 -



A. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
1. Original Objective: The objective of the Project is:
- development of the Federal Employment Services and improving its capabilities in handling unemployment benefit
claims andstrengthening of longer-term capabilities of the Federal Employment Services to carry out active labour
market policies;
- strengthening of institutional capabilities of Ministry of Labour and Social Development of the Russian Federation
during solution of social protection problems for what it is necessary to implement, at least in three regions, pilot
programs on computerization of pension services as well as to develop proposals on reforming pension services system
and social assistance measures.
2. Revised Objective: The objectives have been not revised. The number of regional pension services to be computerized
on the Social Protection Component has been increased to 77 from the 3 original.
3. Original Components: Originally the Project consisted of the following components where, upon agreements between
the Borrower and the Bank, some adjustments were introduced in order to achieve the set up objectives:
(A) Management of the Pro*ect: Establishment of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), arrangement of working
process, acquisition of equipment and provision of staff training:
1. Project Implementation Unit
2. Personnel Training Unit
(B)  Emergency Service Delivery  by the Federal Employment Service: Phased implementation of computerized
systems for unemployment benefit claims registration and payments including development of conception of activity and
preparation of adequate administrative norms, arrangement of staff training and acquisition of software and computer
equipment.
(C) Stren2thenin2 of the Federal Employment Services: Strengthening of longer-term institutional capabilities of the
FES through acquisition of equipment and the provision of staff training in order to:
Design labour market policies and management systems
* Development of Programs for Rendering Services
* Preparation of the Labour Market Information System
* Development of an Overall Vocational Training Program
(D) Strenathenine of Ministry of Social Protection (MSP), Later Ministry of Labour and Social Development of the
Russian Federation (MLSD): Strengthening, for a long-term prospect, of the SPM (MLSD) possibilities by acquisition
of equipment and training of personnel, for:
1. implementation of the pilot programs on computerization of pension payments not less than in three oblasts;
2. preparation of proposals on reforms in the pension system and development of arrangements for social assistance
rendering.
(E) Development of an Up-to-date Social Protection System: Preparation of a general lay-out on computerization of
the social protection system, including recommendations for phased implementation.
4 . Revised Components
In the course of project implementation, by common consent of the Bank and the Borrower, (Amendments of 08.03.95,
29.04.97, 29.04.99 of Loan Agreement 3532-RU ) there were introduced some adjustments:
- there have been annulled 10 mln. of USD of the Loan;
-  there have been extended project completion terms (30.04.2000);
- there has been withdrawn from the Project contents, Section E: "Development of an Up-to-date Social Protection
System " in order to focus all efforts on computerization of the Pension Payment System. Section B: "Delivery of
- 18-



Emergency Service by the Federal Employment Services" and there have been specified tasks of Section C;
-  in part of implementation of pension services computerization in Russia, within the frame of the Social Protection
Component, at the expense of reduction of volumes for the Employment Services Component, there has been increased
an amount of the loan assets (from USD 7 mln. to USD 45 mln.), as well as a number of regions-participants of the
Project (from 3 to 77 regions) what ensured the success of reforming the Pension Services System and creation of the
basis for "Nation-wide Automated Pension Services System of Russia" within the frame of the Industrial Data
Processing Automated System "ZASCHITA" integrating into the created system regional hardware and application
software available;
- the revised component "Employment Services" focused on the initial components A and C, which have been
reorganized as the below activities:
(I) creation of model offices in 31 regions of the Russian Federation;
(2) development of vocational training programs and vocational counseling programs including creation of specialized
training centers;
(3) development of an up-to-date labour market information services system in order to improve the provision of
up-to-date information materials to ES staff and clients;
(4) development of programs for economically devastated regions in order to improve the social economical sitalation
there through establishing the social partnerships and implementing special employment promotion programs and
services to test new and revised forms of job creation;
(5) establishment of job clubs in order to offer long-term unemployed people assistance in acquiring job hunting skills and
implement specially designed measures and development of mobile offices centers in order to facilitate registration of
unemployed people and to enhance the efficiency and quality of services in remote areas of Russia;
(6) establishment of model vocational rehabilitation centers for disabled people in order to introduce modem vocational
rehabilitation procedures and facilities through the development and adaptation of up-to-date technologies for
rehabilitation of disabled people and procurement of special-purpose equipment;
(7) project management and staff training to implement the project and to provide assistance in staff training.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS
Implementation of the Project was going on in accordance with the objectives stated in two directions:
1. development of the Federal Employment Services in order to improve FES's capabilities in handling of unemployment
benefit claims and to carry out active labour market policies;
2. strengthening of institutional capabilities of Ministry of Social Protection of the Russian Federation in the course of
solution of social protection problems through computerization of allocation and payment of pensions and allowances in
raion and regional social protection bodies as well as development of proposals for reforming of the pension services
system and measures for ensuring social assistance.
1. Employment Services Component
The Staff appraisal was conducted by the World Bank in October 1992. A PPF was approved at the same time. Through
the PPF period (till the end of October 1993) the following targets were achieved:
Was developed and delivered to all local employment offices the ES procedural Handbook;
* Prepared bidding documents for purchase of computers;
Developed the information and computerization strategy of FES;
* Designed specialized programs for mass-layoff handling;
* Designed public works programs;
* Provided assistance in development of Presidential Decree "On employment, training and vocational rehabilitation of
unemployed people";
Conducted pilot labour market research and developed recommendations on labour market monitoring system;
* Developed staff training and re-training strategy;
* Established financial management and control systems.
The implementation of the Main Loan activities has started in 59 regions of the RF after the loan effectiveness date on
September 9, 1994. The FES has signed 53 contracts with International and Russian companies and organizations to
provide consulting services and supply equipment under the Employment Services component. The outcomes of these
- 19-



assignments are summarized below:
* Model Offices
All TA was completed satisfactorily in February 1997. 39 model employment offices were created with technical
assistance of intemational consultants, 2638 employment officers of local and regional levels were trained; spent - USD
2,825 mln. Today there are trained, on the permanent basis, employment officers from other model employment centers;
*  Vocational Training
In course of satisfactory completed TA were developed modern training programs for food, construction, sewing industries
and auto-repair workshops in training model centers of Saratov, Smolensk and Ryazan; developed 15 packages of training
multimedia programs; 242 trainers were trained in modern teaching techniques, 60 trainers were trained in teaching the
self-employment and entrepreneurial skills; multimedia training software packages were developed to support the training
process for 15 professions; 34 employment service training centres were equipped with 48 multimedia computer training
class-rooms, specialized training equipment were installed in 3 ES training centres:- Ryazan (sewing equipment),
Smolensk (auto-repair workshop) and Saratov (dairy processing equipment). Spent - USD 6,214 mln;
*  Careers Counseling
Established careers counseling units at the employment centres in 20 regional employment offices, 150 senior counseling
staff trained in modern counseling and management techniques, 20 staff trained in the development and production of
careers information materials, training materials procedural handbooks distributed to employment centers throughout RF.
Spent - USD 0,347 mln;
*  Information Services
A unified public information strategy developed which allows to minimize the job seeking period, enhance citizen's
awareness on their right on labour market and the main services provided by employment offices, enhanced the efficiency
of information provided to clients. Spent - USD 0,089 mln;
*  Economically Devastated Areas
Established social partnerships in 3 pilot regions (Vladimir, Ivanovo and Kirov oblasts), developed and distributed
guidelines and recommendations of establishing of social partnerships, developed legal recommendations on selection of
small enterprises for receipt of revolving loan funds under job creation scheme. Spent - USD 0,406 mln;
* Programs
Developed, tested and distributed to all employment services throughput RF, trained over 200 hundred Job Clubs leaders;
developed and distributed Job-description for Officers in Charge of Mobile Offices and procedural handbook, delivered
vehicles equipped to serve as Mobile Offices to 6 regions, developed technology for their operation. Spent - USD 1,0 mln;
*  Vocational Rehabilitation
Established 4 vocational rehabilitation model centers equipped with specialised training and assessment equipment in
Chelyabinsk, Voronezh, Lipetsk and Moscow, developed their operation technology, 20 training courses in assessment and
rehabilitation techniques were delivered to staff from 4 pilot centers. Spent - USD 1,133 mln;
* Project Co-ordination Unit and Staff Training
90 staff of ES trained in benefit fraud prevention and investigation, training materials produced for future use, 20 trainers
from Volga region - trained in international food hygiene standards, 10 senior ES manager trained in policy making and
employment promotion programs skills. Spent - USD 0,578 mln.
For implementation of the Employment Services component there were spent 13,7 mln. of USD.
a. The implementation of the Proiect has resulted in creation of conditions for further development and increase of
efficiency of the Federal Employment Services of the Russian Federation, viz.:
There have been introduced new methods of cooperation with population and with employers, extended capabilities on
rendering assistance in provision of employment (vocational training, consultations and so on), including in the remote
from employment services centers territories, determined priority of active policy programs, increased quality of services
on the basis of training employment services staff. Growth of unemployment in the country has caused necessity of swift
growth of employment services efficiency, thus in 1994 it was registered 3,7 mln. of unemployed seeking for job and 4,0
mln. of consultations were rendered; in 1999 - 4,3 mln. of unemployed and there were rendered 10 mln. of consultation
services.
- 20 -



b. Integration level of the project participants: there has been carried out great works with managers of the regional
employment services of the Russian Federation, there has been rendered assistance in establishing partnerships with
entrepreneurs, trade unions, regional administrations and with other organizations.
c. Specific achievements: There have been introduced into the practice of the Employment Services
special technologies in rendering consultations on job search, programs and services on careers guidance, vocational
training, assistance in organization of entrepreneurial activities, subsidization of part-time employment, vocational
rehabilitation and other services. Model offices have become the basis for training of employment services staff.
2. Social Protection Component
Preparation of the Project was going on from January to October, 1993 on the basis of Evaluation Report I 11209-RU
issued by the IBRD Personnel in October, 1992.
Within the preparatory period there were performed the following:
- developed strategy of computerization of social protection bodies, Technical Design of Industrial Automated Data
Processing System, "ZASHCHITA", including:
- technical proposal for the development of three pilot programs on computerization of allocation and payment of pensions
and allowances in Bianskaya, Smolenskaya and Tverskaya Oblasts;
- Technical proposal on establishment and computerization of the Federal Data Collection Center of MSP;
- carried out examination of Technical Design of Industrial Automated Data Processing System "ZASHCHITA" by
international experts, the project was highly evaluated in their report;
- on a competitive basis there was purchased software for the Federal Center on Collection and Processing of Data to the
amount of USD 192 910,00.  The total amount spent for procurement of software/hardware and consultation
services is USD 227,5 thousand.
Practical implementation of the Social Protection Component started after effective date of the Loan, September 9, 1994.
Selection of regions for participation in the Project was determined by their readiness to participate actively in
implementation of programs.
Restructuring of the Project and accretion of loan proceeds for the Social Protection Component (from 7 mln. to 45 mln.
of USD) at the expense of reduction of procurement on the Employment Services Component allowed to extend tasks and
provide 2266 raion and regional social protection divisions (pension services) in 77 subjects of the Russian Federation
with up-to-date computer equipment assuring creation of 14000 automated working places and by that the basis for
creation of "National Automated Pension Services System of the Russian Federation" - the main goal of the Project
implementation in part of social protection. Implementation of the Social Protection Component was carried out in 2
phases.
During Phase I of the Project (September. 1994 - April, 1997) there was fulfilled the following:
- prepared bidding documents for the procurement of computer equipment and photocopying machines and held bidding
resulted in signing two contracts for supply of equipment and services. By April, 1997 there were automated pension
services in 36 subjects of the Russian Federation and in the Ministry of Social Protection, there were commissioned 7476
automated working places in 848 local and regional social protection divisions and pension services.
During Phase 2 of the Project (July. 1997 - April. 2000) there was fulfilled the following:
- issued bidding documents for the procurement of computer equipment and photocopying machines and held bidding
(ICB) resulted in signing two contracts for delivery of equipment and services. Within the frame of the contracts by April,
2000 Federal Center for Collection and Processing of Data (Ministry of Labour of Russia) has been additionally
computerized with modem computer equipment and computerized or upgraded pension services in 64 subjects of the
Russian Federation. There have been automated 1418 local, raion and regional social protection and pension services
divisions which received 6658 computerized working places.  The total amount spent for Phase 1 of the Proiect
(procurement of equipment and services, consultation services and audits) is USD 19,643 min., for Phase 2, of the
Project - USD 22.199 mln. of the Loan
- 21 -



In 1994 from the monetary resources of the federal budget appropriated for creation of "ZASHCHITA", as the
Russian contribution to implementation of the Project, there was purchased equipment and commissioned three pilot
fragments of the pension payment system in social protection bodies of Bryanskaya, Smolenskaya and Tverskaya Oblasts.
During inspection mission of Mr. Marshall all three projects were highly appreciated. And besides, the Russian side, out
various budgets invested some funds for the development and management of application software on allocation and
payment pensions, arrangement of offices, installation and wiring for power supply and local aria networks, transportation
to places of operation and insurance, testing and installation of software and application software. Total amount of
Russian investments on Phase I of the Proiect was USD 11.9 million, on Phase 2 of the Project- USD 6.533
Under the contracts of Phase I and Phase 2 of the Project there was developed and distributed between the participants
the package of manuals, techniques and forms of reporting documents for commissioning of hardware/software delivered
under the Project. In the course of implementation of both phases of the Project over 500 regional technical specialists
from all subjects of the Russian Federation participated in the Project have been trained and certified for operation the
delivered hardware/software and training of users in their regions. Besides, 30 specialists of the Ministry and regional
social protection divisions have been trained for dealing with arrangement of procurements and management of projects
within the frame of the World Bank. Ministry of Labour of the Russian Federation has carried out supply of considerable
number (over 21 000 ) of sets of computer equipment and photocopying machines to 77 subjects of the Russian Federation
to the total amount of over 40 USD mln.
As a result of the Project implementation in all regional and in most raion social protection bodies there were installed
local area networks and arranged operations on allocation and payment of pensions and allowances on the basis of
network technologies. At the same time in each subject of the Russian Federation there has been arranged regional
pension data base allowing to bring into practice full and timely control over charge and payment of pensions and
allowances, provide regional and federal authorities with necessary operative information, carry out monitoring of various
types.
Implementation of the Project has allowed to shorten terms and improve quality of social protection services.
Computerization has allowed to shorten twice as much data processing time for allocation and payment of pensions.
Service time of a pensioner reduced twice as much. Considerably (average 55 %) reduced number of mistakes while
charging and paying pensions, whereupon number of complaints of pensioners in various regions reduced by 48 %
(average). Management efficiency of social protection bodies has increased, number of pensioners served by one inspector
has increased (average 27 %), number of inspectors has reduced (average 15 %). Because of implementation of modem
information technologies the membership of qualified inspectors has rejuvenated, it became possible to carry out daily
control of incoming and expenditures of monetary funds for payment of pensions, decreased duplications while awarding
pensions (average 39 %) and overpayments (average 59 %). Automation has resulted in improvement of pension services
with nominal capital investments in the Project - USD 0,38 for one pensioner per year proceeding from a 5 years
depreciation of capital investments into computer equipment.  No doubts that the above listed advantages promote
weakening of social tension in Russia and advancing on the way of democratic reforms.
At the same time in the course of implementation of the Project there was carried out preparation of reforms in
pension services policy and worked out measures to ensure social assistance
a. As a result of the project implementation there was created conditions within the Pension Services System of the
Russian Federation on its positive reforming, including:
* database integration of pension collection processes in the Pension Fund of Russia, award of pension, allocation,
recalculation and preparation of payment documents within the structures of the Ministry of Labour, as well as an
address payment of pensions through post services of the Russian Federation or Saving Bank System of the Russian
Federation;
* effectivization of development and implementation of new normative acts within the Pension Services System at the
expense of operative data fetching and processing and impact projection of the new laws on social state of pensioners.
b. Integration Rate of the Participants: Great scope of work has been carried out with the management of subjects of
- 22 -



the Russian Federation. This resulted in signing co-financing agreements with all participants. The agreements comprised
technical assignment on co-financing, arrangement of rooms, installation of software/hardware, updating of databases and
effective implementation of the delivered under the Project equipment.
c. Specific Achievements: Networking techniques and personified pension databases providing integration with
analogue databases of the Pension Fund of the Russian Federation have been implemented in all regions-participants of
the Project.
In the course of implementation of the Proiect there was taken the decision to finance from loan 3532-RU technical
support of Social Assistance pilots under the SPIL in Republic of Komi. Voronezhskava and Volgo2radskava Oblasts. A
list of equipment needed for the said regions and Technical Requirements on the equipment to be delivered were prepared
the World Bank in advance. For implementation of those works there were concluded two contracts on a competitive
basis. The result of the work under the SPIL (October, 1997 - April, 1998) was that at loan funds (USD 1,062 mln.) there
was carried out into effect technical support of social assistance in Republic of Komi, in Voronezhskaya and
Volgogradskaya Oblasts.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
Implementation of the Project was going on within the period of the market economic and administrative refonns in
Russia (1994 - 2000). Since the Social Protection component was to be financed only out from budgets of various levels
and implementation of reforms in Russia took place under conditions of financial instability in regions and government
budget deficit they negatively effected the process of implementation. From the factors negatively affected the
implementation it is necessary to point out the following:
-   often changes of Govemments and Management of the Ministry;
-   government budget deficit and financial instability in regions;
-  interpretation ambiguity of legislation in various regions while customs clearing, etc.
At the same time the assistance in solution of problems in the course of implementation of the Project rendered by
Ministry of Finance and some other ministries and organizations of Russia, as well as the World Bank, in particular, its
Moscow Resident Mission has become a factor of great importance.
1. Factors outside of Government or Executor Control
Two bank crisis took place in the course of the implementation. The first resulted in a bankruptcy of CB "Optimum"
and the amount of loan USD 34,023.63 was frozen on an account. The said amount had been returned by the Ministry of
Finance to an account of the loan.
Great problems for implementation of the Project were caused by economic crises of August 17, 1998 in Russia. It
paralyzed not only bank and finance system in Russia but also aggravated a problem of payment of taxes and customs duty
by Consignees for equipment. For some of the Consignees it became impossible to participate in the Project. All this
required introduction of considerable changes into the contracts with the Suppliers being in force. It had delaying effect on
the Project implementation. Depression in the Bank System of Russia after the financial crisis required reopening our
special account in the bank recommended by the Ministry of Finance. It required considerable time (some months) to do
this.
Differences in regional levels of computerization including training of specialists prior to start implementation,
differences in types of hardware/software in regions as well as organizational factors related with geographical and
climatic conditions in different regions of the Russian Federation etc. were of great importance for implementation of the
Project.
2. Factors Subject to Government Control
Government budget limitation negatively effected implementation of Phase I of the Project. Despite the fact that it
was completed in time delay in payment of taxes for the delivered equipment created critical situation in I - II quarters of
1996 and caused some deviations in the equipment delivery schedule and in the follow-up activities, as well as search for
additional assets to pay penalties and storing of equipment on customs warehouses.
There were certain complications with co-financing of the Project from the Russian part. In spite of the fact that
Administrations of the regions-participants of the Project guaranteed payment of customs duties and taxes out from local
- 23 -



budgets it appeared that some of them were not ready to appropriate the funds timely and in full volume what caused
certain delays and penalties during customs clearance. Limitation of government budget made it impossible to help even
sheltered regions, such as Evenkyisky AO, Republic of Tiva and some others. However, the Govemment of the RF
recommended the State Customs Committee to grant regions with two-months delay or payments by installments for
customs clearance against contract of guarantee what was followed-up by many regions.
In some regions delays in customs clearance happened not only because of budget deficits but because of differences in
interpretation of regional legislation by regional customs committees requiring some additional documents from
consignees. The problems were solving with the help of the State Customs Committee providing the required explanations
but this procedure caused extension of custom clearance terms.
Often change of Russian Government as well as Ministry Management did not facilitate the success of the
implementation of the Project. During the period of the implementation (1994 - 2000) 7 Ministers were changed what
took much time for every of them to familiarize with the Project and start issuing required instructions.
3. Factors Subiect to Executor Control
All factors subject to Executor control - efficiency of management, including efficiency of financial
administration and its impact to the process, personnel, expenditures, course of implementation, adequacy of monitoring
and evaluation - all was carried out at high level and effected the implementation positively, except within certain period
(May - September, 1998) when usual change of the Ministry Management took place.
Under the conditions of constant changes of political and economical situation in the country stability of the PIU
membership was of great importance for implementation of the Project. The PIU personnel obtained the experience
required for operation in such circumstances.
D. Sustainability
In order to ensure sustainability of the Project Ministry of Labour of Russia developed project "Federal Objective Program
for Creation of Integrated Automated System on Processing of Information of Ministry of Labour and Social Development
of the Russian Federation for 1999 - 2005" covering the main directions for the Ministry policy on strengthening and
further development of information systems OACOI "Zashchita" and AIC "ZANYATOST", including:
periodical modemization of obsolete equipment - today great number of obsolete models is in operation what leads to
reduction of labour efficiency of users, though the Project made it possible to renew the park of PC;
transition of all subjects of the Russian Federation to common application software on allocation and payment of
pensions and benefits developed and supported by the Ministry itself. Today in various regions there are used about 8
various types of software using various algorithms what causes growth of expenses for development, support and
monitoring from the side of the Ministry. Partially the Project promoted it because for all PC there was used pension
services software of the Ministry;
* unification, modernization and management of the rest application software of the social sphere, its integration to
pension services software;
creation of common information environment and distributive data base for social protection bodies in the RF;
* arrangement of regular workshops and training courses for technical staff of regional social protection bodies due to
lack of sufficient computer literacy of users;
* exercise of control over warranty maintenance for the delivered equipment.
And besides, most of regional social protection bodies enjoying advantages of implementation of modern technologies
exclude returning to old (not automated) methods of work and they are planning to appropriate assets for automation of
the social protection sphere contributing by that into development of the system.
Sustainability of the Project, in part of "social protection" is obvious due to the following:
On the basis of recommendations of the consultants there has been issued 2-d edition of "Guidance Collection on
Activity of Employment Services Center". Workers of model offices continue training of employment offices staff for
surrounding regions. Modern training programs has been distributed between training centers of model employment
offices. Operation techniques of careers counseling services and information services are used in everyday work of
employment services. This allowed to increase efficiency of employment services and a number of participants of
active policy program (Appendix 1).
Computer multimedia classrooms are used in two shifts. At the expense of other resources there have been equipped 16
- 24 -



more training centers of employment services with multimedia classrooms (including Volgograd, Voronezh,
Orenburg, etc).
The assistance rendered within the frame of the Loan has allowed to develop such special measures as support and
development of enterprise, assistance in arrangement of working places, subsidizing of employment of young people
and disabled and some others (Appendix 1). The experience obtained in establishment of social partnerships, bidding
for selection of enterprises for obtaining credits to establish working places has been used in three pilot regions. One
part from the selected in the course of implementation enterprises was also financed from other sources, including
international technical assistance. Techniques and procedures used in work of Employment Services mobile offices
are now widely used in remote areas, in particular in villages. 3 more regional employment services bodies have
warned up to establish divisions on vocational rehabilitation.
The experience obtained in the process of implementation made it possible to work out supplements and alterations
for working out new legislation on employment. Improvement of professional skill of Employment Services staff in
regions allows to implement wide-scale employment and labour market programs not only in the regions participated
in the project but also prevalence the experience obtained to other subjects of the Russian Federation.
* Now while reforming approaches to development and implementation of employment policy, unemployment insurance
it is planned also to use the experience of technical assistance rendered within the frame of the Loan.
Preparation for Everyday Work
At the government level plans for reinforcement of project implementation successes missing, resources absent.
E. Activities of the Bank and the Borrower
World Bank Crediting
Bank activities in rendering assistance, development and evaluation of the Project were highly satisfactory.
The Project meets the requirements of Decree ' 629 of August 27 of the Government of the Russian Federation
Creation of Industrial Automated Data Processing System in Social Protection Departments", thus it answers the
government strategy in full;
Chosen, during development of the Project and Evaluation Report in 1992, priorities were surely very important for
Russia. Because of long duration of the Project (8 years) very many changes relative to not stable financial situation
took place in Russia. However, the Bank was very responsive to all those changes and agreed upon adjustments and
restructuring of the Project preserving, at the same time, the main priorities.
The activities of the Bank may be evaluated as "highly satisfactory" by the following reasons:
The decision about restructuring of the Loan was correct and taken in time. It was done on the basis of the analysis of
the situation carried out with participation of representatives of the Bank. During life of the Project the Bank
permanent control ensured not only conformance to the Loan Agreement but allowed to respond to appearing
difficulties and to introduce adjustments in accordance with the changes of economical conditions;
Next steps in implementation of the Project were carefully thrashed out. Permanent control of the Bank allcwed not
only implement the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement but made it pcssiblc to
respond to the complications arisen and to introduce corrections in accordance with the changes of economical
conditions;
Permanent assistance rendered by the Moscow Resident Mission of the World Bank and cooperation with the Ministry
and the Government helped us settle arising technical and political issues what ensured better results of project
implementation;
Regular consultations with the Bank and provision of all required governing documents predetermined due activities
of the PIU in full conformity with Bank requirements and recommendations.
Implementation of the Project within the frame of the IBRD loan promoted strengthening of international relations of
the Federal Employment Services, signing of bilateral cooperation agreements. International meetings on bilateral
cooperation, held with participation of the Bank representatives, allowed not only exchange with the resu[ts of the
work and with the obtained experience but also to plan long-term cooperation, avoiding donor assistance
concentration only within restricted number of subjects of the Russian Federation. The results obtained are shown in
Appendix 2.
Borrower/Executor
-25 -



Successful implementation of the Project was promoted by well thought-out and elaborated issues of the Project
administration of by the Ministry in close cooperation with federal and regional authorities, right choice of an equipment
delivery method, strict observance of Russian Laws and the World Bank guiding documents related to arrangements and
implementation of Projects.
Right choice of allocation of loan funds has allowed to fulfill the main objectives of the Project thus, the
implementation of the Project has resulted in increase of efficiency of employment services not only in regions-donors but
in subsidiary regions where the level of unemployment is the highest and employment problem is sharp.
Project administration efficiency was predetermined by the following scheme:
Manager of the Project, the Social Protection Component - Yu. Liublin, First Deputy Minister;
Manager of the Project, the Employment Services Component - M.Moskvina, Deputy Minister;
By order of the Minister there was established Project Coordination Council;
All financial and organizational decisions were taken by Management of the Ministry together with the PIU, and
then, an executive body, the PIU, put them into effect;
Constant meetings and consultations with both, subjects of the Russian Federation and other federal bodies allowed to
settle arising problems and eliminate them later;
Quarterly project implementation reports of the PIU submitted to the Bank made it possible for the Bank to monitor
the course of the Project implementation. The Government of the Russian Federation exercised permanent control
over implementation of the Project.
Employment Services ComPonent
Interest of the Federal Employment Services Management in objectives and tasks has promoted successful implementation
of the Project. Cooperation with other bodies and agencies allowed to foresee arising problems and settle them timely.
Appointment, by order of the Federal Employment Services, of Subprojects (Components) managers from the Russian side
has become the main factor of successful implementation. Constant working consultations in the course of implementation
have promoted successful implementation of the Project.
Invitation of an international consultant to perform management of the Project promoted establishment of good working
relations with foreign organizations-consultants working under the project, allowed to settle arising problems. The
experience of that consultant promoted also elimination of faults in the Project implementation procedures and following
up the best international experience and management practice.
F. LESSONS LEARNED
Experience of phased activities with regions can be thought as the positive lesson we have learned. Cooperation with
the regions started from collection of information about their wish to participate in the Project and their applications on
requirements of hardware/software. All further efforts have been focused on answering the requirements of the Project
participants.
Availability of juridical document, regulating relations between the Ministry and Subjects of the Russian Federation
must be obligatory. The main document regulating relations between the Ministry and the subjects of the RF was an
agreement concluded with each of 64 participants of Phase II of the Project. Many times in the course of implementation
those agreements helped us solve law, financial and technical problems arisen. Practically, it could have been impossible
to complete successfully the Project without such agreements.
Need of close cooperation and coordination of works under the Project through representatives in places with the
interested organizations and services of the Ministry of Labour of Russia and with other governmental organizations and
departments. Thus, appointment by decrees of the Federal Employment Services managers for each component of the
Project from the Russian side has become an important factor of the Project implementation success. Permanent bilateral
cooperation during implementation has promoted its successful completion.
Bearing in mind that the most serious difficulties we faced in the process of cooperation with regional customs
committees we would recommend consignees of future projects to get from their customs clearance authorities full set of
the documents required for clearance of goods and in advance provide for such documents in contracts. It is also
necessary, if possible, to enlist support of the State Customs Committee of Russia.
On the whole the Social Protection component was rather balanced, however, it is reasonable to extend training of
technical staff and users, provided that the Bank agrees to pay travelling expenses for students out from loan proceeds.
- 26 -



It is necessary to note that implementation of such projects not always allows Russian firns-producers to participate
in them because of high qualifying requirements to bidders. It is necessary to take into consideration their real possibilities
together with sufficient guarantees to fulfil contracts, or arrange bidding using some packages of bidding documents
adhering to any principle, for example, geography location of regions, or delivery certain types of equipment, services, etc.
Price and qualifying requirements, accordingly, (such as an average annual turnover, finance capabilities adequate to
fulfillment of a project - package)
It was a success to hire an international consultant whose experience promoted establishment of good business
relations with foreign consultation services organizations, avoiding violations of procedures in the cou:rse of
implementation of the project and using positive international experience and management practice.
Positive lesson on the Employment Services component we should think the fact that during rendering technical
assistance there was offered complex of measures: from establishment of model offices, development of software and
technologies, installation of equipment to training of employment services staff and development of social partnership.
Workshop "Management of Projects and Procurements under the World Bank Projects" also promoted the success of
the project implementation. The workshop was organized by Moscow Representation of the World Bank Economical
Development Institute for the PIU staff and some officers from the Ministry in charge of coordination of the 'Project
implementation.
It was of great importance for us to use experience of other PIUs, as well as continuity and use of other specialists
experience who are expert in this certain sphere.
We would think it advisable not to engage some PIUs for one and the same subject but using of PlUs consisting of
specialists of high-skill having positive experience on the problem.
Implementation of the Project proved that the success depends upon the deep knowledge by the PIU staff guidance of
the World Bank, the experience of the PIU staff obtained in the course of the Project implementation, unity of the PIU and
close cooperation with subjects of the Russian Federation-Participants of the Project and Federal Bodies as well as
permanent assistance and support of the World Bank.
Yu. Lyublin
First Deputy Minister
M..Moskvina
Deputy Minister
- 27 -



Statistical data                                 Appendix 1
Table 1 Statistical data on unemployed people for 1992 - 1999
Indicator                             1992(Oct   1994(Oct   1997(Dec   1999(Dec
Number of unemploved People (in accordance to ILO). mln.           3,9         5,7         6,4        8,7
Unemoloyment level. %                                              5,2         8,1         9,0        11,7
Number of registered unemployed people (at the end of the reporting  0,6       1,6         2,0         1,3
period), mln.
Registered unemployment level, %                                   0,8         2,2         2,7         1,7
Table 2 Employment promotion programs implementation indicators
Indicator                                  1992      1994     1997     1999
1. Number of job-seekers applied (during the reporting period), mln        2,4       3,7      4,6      4,3
2. Consultations provided, mln.                                             1,4      4,0      10,0     12,5
3. Placed to job, mln.                                                     0,7       1,3      2,6      3,07
Of those:
- public works, thou.                                                       8,8     202,8    263,8    496,0
- job creation promotion, thou.                                             -       83,8      30,0     25,0
- small business establishment, thou.                                        .       7,9      33,9     56,1
- "Job-clubs" & "New start courses":
- number of participants, thou.                                                     23,5      86,8    157,2
- placed to job, thou.
- graduated courses, thou.                                                           13,3     33,0     70,8
Disabled people assisted to job placement, thou.                                      -       22,2     37,3
4. Number of vacancies registered at the employment service offices (at the end of
reporting period), thou.                                                  314,5    325,7    369,3    588,3
Table 3 Indicators on vocational training and career counseling
Types of services                       1992          1994          1997          1999
Carccrs counseling                                          -         2720113        3373071      4189797
Vocational training                                       45521        242933        261419        305146
Placed to job on completion of training                   27832         95303        156490        234732
- 28 -



Appendix 2
Donor Initiatives Linked to Project (as of 31 March 2000)
Component                     Donor                        Provision               Approx Value (USD)
I -- Model Offices            Sweden                    2 extra model offices staff training            40,000
__ Britain                2 extra model office/staff training             90,000
TACIS                     3 extra model offices/ equipment               200,000
Germany                   I extra model office staff training             40,000
Denmark                   1 extra model office staff training             35,000
Canada                    I extra model office staff training             35,000
2 -- Vocational Training      Britain                    Training Needs analysis                        60,000
3 - Careers counseling        Canada                     Materials and study visits                     60,000
4 - Information Services      Denmark and Scotland       Materials and study visits                      10,000
5- Crisis Areas               Britain and USA            TA-marketing training                          30,000
6 -- Jobclubs                 Britain                    Materials and staff training                   60,000
7 -- Vocational Rehabilitation  Britain                  Equipment                                      20,000
for the Disabled
8- PCU                        Britain                   Admin costs (Director and staff)               420,000
8 -- Staff Training           Sweden                     Seminars/study visits                         100,000
TOTAL                                                                                                $1,200,000
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable.
10. Additional Information
The project covered 85 regions of the Russian Federation. A map of project activities was prepared by
the PCU. It is available on request in hard copy upon request. For those reading this ICR electronically,
a link is contained below in Adobe Acrobat. Launch the file from Lotus Notes. Use the Scroll bar to
move through the individual Maps. To view data on a particular region, click on the
region's name.
map_eng.pdf
- 29 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
ln0027   dtcatoit Mat rbji02       Projected I"n0 las000t00W ith* :$  0Actua iLatto stiat
1. Employment Services Component                                            Achieved through introduction of Model
Office concept. All oblasts in project
Processing of unemployment benefits                                         established at least 1 Model Office which
improved.                                                                   acts as an exemplar for other offices in same
and neighboring oblasts.
Level of service to unemployed improved.
A more professional, client-friendly, standard
Active labor market policies developed and                                  of information and a more comprehensive,
implemented.                                                                systematic information strategy is in place.
Delivery of ES services now brought to
clients living in remote-areas and previously
without access to ES services.
Trainers more effective in training clients,
identifying changing local employer skill
requirements, and adapting course curricula.
Assessment and rehabilitation services
developed for disabled clients.
A stronger, more highly skilled, all-age
counseling service functioning.
Testing and evaluation of partnership
models in economically devastated areas
developed and ready to be replicated.
All employment offices now able to establish
Jobclubs; select and train Jobclub Leaders.
2. Social Protection Component                                              Payments made without delay. Indexation
and changes in pensions occurring on time
Social safety net services strengthened                                     and without error. Citizens informed of their
through automation of pension                                               rights.
administration.
- 30 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projeded In last PSR                   ActualtLatest.Estimate
1. Employment Services Component
A. PCU established                                                             Managed project satisfactorily, fulfilled
fiduciary responsibilities.
Assistance provided in FES staff training                                    24 staff trained in 3 Oblasts on
unemployment benefit fraud prevention and
investigation, training materials developedl
and widely disseminated; staff trained in
po icy development for youth employment
programs.
B (i) Operation of Model Office network to                                     39 Employment Offices converted to full
introduce improve work by introducing new                                      Model Office status; cost-effectiveness cf
management techniques and disseminating                                        employment offices improved;
results to other oblast and rayon level offices.
300 managers trained in practical
management skills; 1,100 staff trained on
operational techniques; 4 "Good Practice"
guides produced for use by EC staff.
improved efficiency in services to
unemployed: (i) process of vacancy searches
facilitated, and (ii) processing time for
issuing benefits reduced;
B (ii) Modemizabon of Vocational Training.                                     180 vocational training instructors retrained;
34 training centers equipped with multimedia
computers; training software packages
developed for 15 occupations;
Revised programs for clothing,
foodprocessing, construction and vehicle
repair industries; Local centers providing
more relevant and better training service;
B (iii) Establishment of modem Career                                          160 senior staff trained in Career
Counseling services.                                                           Counseling, management techniques and
replicabon of actvities on a regional basis;
Extensive informational material
disseminated throughout the system;
B (iv) The provision of good quality                                           Recommendations made for improvement of
up-to-date Information materials to staff and                                 the ES's Information Services; sample
clients.                                                                       publicity material produced for future use;
organizational and procedural
recommendations for employment offices;
B (v) The development of programs to test                                      Guide on economic and social partnerships
new forms of job creation in Economically                                      developed to deal with Economically
Devastated Areas.                                                              Devastated Areas; Partnerships in 3 pilot
regions developed.
- 31 -



B (vi) - Development of Program Services
Establishment of Job Clubs in order to offer                                   100 Regional Jobclub leaders trained; 3
long-term unemployed people assistance in                                      manuals developed, tested, and circulated to
acquiring job hunting skills.                                                  all employment offices in the Russian
Federation: (i) Jobclub Leader Training, (ii)
Jobclub Operations, (iii) Jobhunting Skills for
Clients; Number of active Jobclubs now
estimated at 5,000.
Introduction of Mobile Offices to facilitate                                  6 Specially adapted vehides supplied to
registration of unemployed people and to                                       Oblasts to provide services to remote
enhance the efficiency and quality of                                          communities; portable computers and
services in remote areas.                                                      printers purchased; 12 staff trained in mobile
office procedures; Job Description drafted
for officer-in-charge of mobile office;
recommendations made for future action.
B (vii) Establishment of model centers for                                    4 model Rehabilitation centers established
Vocational Rehabilitation of disabled people                                  and equipped; recommendations made on
specialized equipment to be purchased for
future offices; 200 items of specialized
equipment purchased for each of 4 centers.
Guide for Directors of Rehabilitation Centers
developed; Assessment tests and materials
developed; 20 staff training courses
delivered.
2. SOCIAL PROTECTION
Pension automation providing improved                                         Computerizabon in 77 regions.
services.
2266 rayon and regional Social Protection
divisions provided with modem computer
equipment.
14,000 automated working places creating
the basis for creation of a National
Automated Pension Services System.
500 regional technical specialists trained and
provided training to regional users.
Pensioners no longer waiting in ques.
Processing Ume for first time applications
reduced from 30 days to 2 days. Average
tme to respond to queries reduced from 1
hour to 15 minutes. Mistakes and
complaints by pensioners reduced by half.
Efficiency of social protection offices has
increased. Number of pensioners served by
one staff increased (average 27 %).
Many office using computers for
administration of selected social assistance
benefits (child benefits).
End of project
Note: A logframe was not an appraisal requirement for this project. These indicators were developed
during the 2nd project restructuring in 1997 and focus mainly on outputs rather than outcome.
- 32 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million e uivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimftate    Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Employment Services (restructured)                 125.70           20.30
Social Protection (restructured)                     7.30           60.30
Total Baseline Cost                                 133.00          80.60
Total Project Costs            133.00          80.60
Total Financing Required            133.00           80.60
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
[                            ~~~~~~~~~Procurement Methodl
Expenditure Category     IC:B           NC8        Other         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     48.50         0.00         4.60         5.40         58.50
(48.50)      (0.00)       (4.50)        (0.00)      (5.3.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         15.50        9.20        24.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (15.50)       (0.00)     (15.50)
4. Other (Administrative     0.00          0.00         0.00         48.30       48.30
Expenses)
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (C0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         1.50         0.00         1.50
(Refinancing PPF)           (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.50)       (0.00)       (1.50)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         (.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (().00)
Total                     48.50         0.00         21.60        62.90        133.00
(48.50)      (0.00)       (21.50)       (0.00)      (70.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       CB       PcB             Othor'       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     42.50         0.00         3.50         0.00        46.00
(42.50)      (0.00)       (3.50)        (0.00)      (46.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         8.20         0.00         8.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (8.20)       (0.00)       (8.20)
4. Other (Administrative     0.00          0.00         0.00         25.00        25.00
Expenses)
- 33 -



(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00            1.40           0.00           1.40
(Refinancing PPF)                (0.00)          (0.00)          (1.40)         (0.00)         (1.40)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         42.50            0.00           13.10          25.00          80.60
(42.50)         (0.00)         (13.10)         (0.00)        (55.60)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) nmanaging the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local governrment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
t;  00000000 00 -00000 000000 ; ;0 0000000 $ 0 0 ;V^  t;:00Pert '* ntage of Appraisal
Component               Apraisal Estimtoe!P            Ac$tlts tate  
Bank      Govt.      COP.       B,i        Go,t       Co.       a         .   COF.
Employment Services       62.70      63.00                 13.60      6.70                21.7   10.6
Social Protection          7.30      0.00                 42.00       18.30              575.3   0.0
-34 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
- 35 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Projcct Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation       Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                         Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
May - July, 1992               2   Task Manager                           S                  S
Labor Market Economist
Employment Specialist
Info. Technology Specialist
Legal Counsel
Appraisal/Negotiation
September 1992                 1   Economist (Task Manager)               S                  S
Operations Officer
Employment Specialist
Info. Technology Specialist
Legal Counsel
Operations Analyst
Supervision
January 1993 - October         13   Economist (Task Manager)              S                  S
1997                               Operations Officer
Vocational Education
Specialist
Employment Specialist
Info. Technology Specialist
Implementation Specialist
November 1997 - March           4   Fieldbased supervision.               S                  S
2000                                Missions usually combined with
other operations - Task Manager,
Operations Officer and
Operations Analyst.
ICR
April 2000                     1   Task Manager                           S                  S
Operations Analyst
Employment Specialist
Info. Technology Specialist
Operations Officer
Intermittently, the project implementation rating was unsatisfactory (June - October 1994,
September 1996 - February 1997, June 1999-February 2000), coinciding with difficulties taxation
problems.
- 36 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                  59.0                         179.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                      43.6                          132.7
Supervision                               313.0                         900.0
ICR                                          6.0                          25.0
Total                                     424.4                        1236.9
ICR mission costs considered part of final supervision effort. Amount under ICR is for preparation of
report only.
- 37 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
E Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
72 Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
El Institutional Development               O H  0 SU O M  O N  0 NA
O2 Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O2 Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
7 Gender                            OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
72 Private sector development              0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
7 Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Discussion of these ratings is contained in Section 4 - Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components.
- 38 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
El Lending                                          OHS OS  OU  OHU
E Supervision                                       O HS * S  OU  OHU
O Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
O Preparation                                       O HS * S   O u  O HU
O Government implementation performance             0 HS * S  0  U  0 HU
L Implementation agency performance                 0 HS * S  0  U  0 HU
L Overall                                           OHS OS  0 U   O HU
Discussion of these ratings is contained in Section 7 - Bank and Borrower Performance.
- 39 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report                                      October 1992
2. Memo to RVP - Details of 1st Restructuring                  January 1995
3. Mid Terrn Review Report                                     April 1996
4. Supervision Aide Memoire - Details of 2nd Restructuring     June 1997
5. Terms of Reference, Beneficiary Survey                      February 2000
6. Questionaire(s), Beneficiary Survey                         March 2000
7. Beneficiary Survey                                          May 2000
8. Brief summary of IT survey findings                         June 2000
9. Map of Project Activities                                   May 2000
- 40 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
A team of consultants studied the efficiency of several programs completed in the framework of the World
Bank project in four Russian regions, namely Voronezh, Moscow, Smolensk, and Ulyanovsk. Following is
a very brief summary of the survey results.
The study included several phases:
1 .    Development of a questionnaire: initial version, pilot testing in Moscow, follow-up, and copying to
be used for survey in regions.
2.    Trip to regions during which two surveys were made:
Survey by thorough interview method -
* of specialists and management of pension support departments,
*  of specialists and management of labor and employment departments of the Ministry of Labor and
Social Development of selected regions,
*  of specialists and management of model employment offices,
* management and instructors of training centers,
* management and instructors of job clubs;
Formalized questionnaire survey -
* of unemployed people who are being trained at training centers and job clubs (selected on a random
basis);
* of people (employed and unemployed) who previously had training at training centers and job clubs,
randomly selected from lists provided by respective training centers and job clubs. This was a phone
survey,
*  of experts (management and specialists) of pension departments, labor and employment departments,
training centers and job clubs, most of whom were directly involved in the World Bank project.
3. Interview transcripts and reports on each interview and the region as a whole (a set of documents).
4. Development of a survey database of clients of the respective services and specialists of pension
departments, and a book of codes.
5. preparation of an analytical report for each program.
The study was intended to answer the following questions:
* What were the strongest and weakest points of the programs during the implementation period?
*  How did those programs affect the performance of the respective services (employment and labor
market adaptation of the unemployed, the quality of pension service, etc.)?
* Did the programs meet the requirements of the regions and did the social-economic results achieved
meet the targets of the programs?
* What are the potential requirements and possibilities of continuing these programs or starting new ones
in the regions and what are their possible implementation forms?
All the experts who worked in the regions, without exception, noted the high professional level of the
managers and specialists with whom they cooperated during the study, their sincerity and openness when
the most acute questions were discussed, not always pleasant to them.
The report consists of two principal parts, an analytical section and a supplement. The analytical section
includes chapters summarizing information on all the surveyed regions concerning the programs of:
* computer support of pension services,
* development of model employment centers,
-41 -



*  development of training centers for the unemployed,
*  establishment and proliferation of job clubs.
Summary of Survey Findings
PENSION SERVICE
The acute need to computerize pension services became clear at the start of the reform, when the inflation
of 1992 entailed regular indexing of pensions followed by regular adjustments of the pension legislation
starting in 1993. The system dominated by manual labor and primitive computation equipment, like
calculators, was unable to cope with a increased scope of work.
The complexity of work went up as well as the scope. A number of operations became almost undoable
manually, for example two-system calculation of salaries and wages, application of various indexes and
coefficients, report generation. Where a pensioner had a long and diverse work record, it took several days
to manually process it. The increased complexity of work aggravated the problem of calculation errors. To
find those, check and recalculate pensions was an additional burden for the staff and resulted in delayed
pension payment.
Owing to changes in the pension legislation, the number of pensioners applying to pension service offices
grew. To cope with the avalanche of customers, the offices had to resort to a ticket system which actually
limited the number of applicants to the throughput capacity of the pension offices. The technical support
and labor organization left much to be desired, so one client might take days and even weeks, because
people would apply to local pension service systems while all the relevant information was kept by the
oblast committee, or vice versa.
According to respondents of all the three surveyed regions, the pension service system could not be
efficiently reorganized without proper computer hardware support. Therefore the most crucial
decentralization events were linked to computer supplies coordinated by the Russian Federation Ministry of
Labor. For example, the 1996 computer supplies enabled separation of functions between the Voronezh
oblast and rayon committees; in the Ulyanovsk Oblast, it helped move the payment operations to the rayon
level and later separate the pension services from children's allowance payments.
Despite the general increase in efficiency and reduction of manual labor to a minimum, the number of staff
has not gone down due to increased scopes and changed content of work. In the Ulyanovsk and Voronezh
Oblasts, the number of people employed in oblast committee pension departrnents went down but many
jobs moved to rayon committees, with some rayon committees creating additional jobs.
The transition to information technologies called for the creation of specialized services to develop and
maintain a computer analog of the social insurance system, including pension support (pension services
account for up to 90% of all social functions). A department of system and network administration was set
up.
The employees of the oblast IT services had short-time training at the Ministry of Labor and received
specialist certificates. Specialists for rayon committees were trained by the oblast conmmittees, following the
methods and timetables of special departments.
The most difficult thing about training was to break the psychological barrier. Many people, especially
- 42 -



those who were not very young, were afraid that computer work would be too complicated to them and
even wanted to leave the job. An overwhelming majority (at least 80-90%) of the employees overcame the
difficulty. Presently, more than 80% of the pension service staff are computer users, with a degree of
proficiency varying according to the specificity of their functions and the availability of a computer at their
work place.
One of the main positive results of computerization was reduction in pension payment delays determined by
the pension service technology. When there is no massive recalculation, the pension flow cycle is achieved
smoothly. In all the surveyed regions, the legislatively prescribed timing for pension granting and payment
is adhered to. Computer technologies have also minimnized calculation errors.
The high degree of system dependency on computer technologies is an advantage and drawvback at the same
time. The disadvantage is rooted in the uncertainty of computer stock upgrade. Computers inevitably
become obsolete; the committees' own funds are scarce, and the staff interviewed were unaware of the
administrations plans for upgrading.
One drawback of the phasing of computerization, was that some regions received newer equipment than
others. A concern raised by respondents was that the computer stock is qualitatively inhomogeneous, and
could complicate the interface between non-manual operations.  Issues were also raised concerning
legislative software. The absence of a guaranteeing and coordinating agency, the Ministry of Labor, results
in certain delays in program upgrades when new legislation is irnplemented. Respondents also commented
that they would have liked to have had financing for office supplies, which were not provided by the
project.
Employment Services
Model Offices
This sub-component supported the development of model employment centers surpassing the regular rayon
facilities in terms of service quality and throughput, using advanced technologies of work, and extending
them to other employment services. It was preceded by a lot of preparatory work by the Federal
Employment Service in 1992-1993, during which the main requirements and conditions of developing
model centers in Russia were specified.
As a measure of the Model Offices' efficiency one could look at the level of registered unemployment. In
all the areas covered by the model centers it went down at a rate that was equal to or higher than in the
respective regions as a whole. In Moscow's Eastern Administrative District, serviced by a model center, the
reduction in the registered unemployment figure occurred against the background of unemployment rise in
the city of Moscow as a whole. The study into the MEC performance suggests that to a certain extent this
could be the result of efficient work of the centers which reduced the time and increased the employment
level. Nevertheless, in all the regions there is a large gap between total and registered unemployment,
which means that a growing proportion of the unemployed is left without services of the employment
system.
In the surveyed model centers, advisory services and various forms of training for specialists was provided,
using "intervention" of various methods. To a large degree, Swedish experience was used and Swedish
experts' advice; the countries whose experience was studied include Great Britain, particularly Scotland,
Gerrnany, France, and others.
- 43 -



The knowledge transfer mechanism (multiplication) was mainly developed on the basis of a specially
designed Scottish training program. All the regions (especially Ulyanovsk) use the Canadian experience of
allowance fraud fighting. In the framework of the project, Russian specialists, united into groups, had
in-house training abroad, namely in Sweden, Scotland, Finland, Canada, France. The training lasted one to
four weeks.
The foreign training courses were largely introductory, to help the trainees get to know the following
elements of the labor market infrastructure:
*  structure of employment agencies abroad,
*  operation of regional services responsible for employment and allowance payment (which included
talks with officers and demonstration of the work technology),
*  methods of employment service officers' training: identification of the need to train officers; planning of
training, training proper, training results assessment (the Swedish model of multilevel staff training
developed by the Swedish National Administration for Labor Market Matters was of special interest),
*  procedure and organization of training and retraining for the unemployed,
*  peculiarities of services for the socially vulnerable categories: disabled, those unemployed for long
periods of time, etc.
The following were the most impressive features encountered by the trainees during their foreign course:
* equipment of the employment services, availability of skillfully prepared aids and guides concerning the
operation of the service,
*  openness, knowledge, professionalism, organization and work culture of employment specialists
abroad,
*  government programs of staff training and the effort the government contributes to this matter,
*  efficiency of job clubs and the well-developed technologies of services for invalids,
*  clarity of the employment legislation and its linkage to the whole system of laws.
Of special interest were seminars on forms and methods of cooperation with employers, employment
service marketing, vacancy collection and filling, public works organization, arrangement of assistance for
the unemployed starting their own business.
The enthusiastic work of the model centers in training rayon employment service staff and disseminating
the new features resulted in gradual growth of the regular employment offices to the model center level.
The most common comment in the survey was the desire to continue with a similar level of information
exchange as was during the project. Since the close of the project, information was exchanged at oblast
and interregional seminars and conferences attended by leaders and experts of employment services from
other regions, but by far the most frequently through personal contacts.
Training Centers
Russian training methods were developed in the absence of a real labor market, and with excessive theory
to the detriment of practical knowledge and skills. The new programs incorporating foreign experience
guide students into leaming by themselves much better than our traditional ones. While this change in
approach was hard to accept at the beginning, it proved quite effective.
As regards the estimated usefulness of the people's participation in the program, 70% of the polled said it
was very useful, 29% described it as "rather useful", and only one claimed "it was all useless".
-44 -



Many respondents indicated they would like to continue with the program, and would like to create a
greater network of training centers, which would be equipped with more modem up to date equipment.
Vocational Rehabilitation for the disabled
Some very interesting things came out of the survey in this area. By far the greatest response was one
which encouraged greater replication of this experience. Because the Center enjoys the status of a model
institution, respondents felt further improvement of technologies should take place in it. The Center has
already completed a number of research projects which can be useful for the development of the
rehabilitation service, improvement of related disability legislation, and many others areas. They noted that
it is possible to use the Center facilities to develop a unified Russian system of rates for all rehabilitation
institutions, define an optimal funding mechanism (maybe, some funding should come from the employment
service and the rest from the social protection system).
The Center is often visited by heads of oblast governments of the neighboring regions and social workers.
They all confirm the need to disseminate experience and set up similar centers in other oblasts. However,
they are reluctant to take the lead without the Federal Employment Service.
Job Clubs
One of the key components of the World Bank contribution to the improvement in the operation of
employment offices was the organization of a broad network of job clubs in Russian regions. Job clubs and
New Start programs did not only become an important independent element in social adaptation of the
unemployed but also an effective means of raising the efficiency of retraining programs for the jobless.
The main criterion in estimating the efficiency of job clubs is the proportion of those who succeeded in
finding a job after job club or New Start classes. Because social adaptation programs are designed for the
most vulnerable categories of the unemployed, with signs of misadaptation and having difficulty finding a
job on their own, the level of successful employment among job club members cannot be very high.,
especially in regions where the programs started a short time ago. However, the overall employment figures
are quite impressive. In the surveyed regions, they are equal to or higher than 25-30%. These regional
achievements in the organization of club work are even higher than expected and higher than required for
formal employment service reports to the Ministry.
The Bank project supported TA only. The main disadvantage identified by respondents was that there is
insufficient technical support to resource the centers - lack of computers, aids, handouts, telephones and
telephone communications. It makes the job clubs leaders job harder, and are often offset by job club
leaders reserving more time for individual advice for clients.
As with other sub-components, respondents cited the desire to more widely disseminate information about
club activity to other Russian regions and encouraged management to hold regular conferences for specific
experts to exchange information and discuss future prospects of work.
- 45 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
A workshop to discuss the results of the Beneficiary Survey was held July 20, 2000 at the World Bank
office in Moscow. Below is a very brief account of the discussions.
Mr. Liublin, 1st Deputy Minister of Labor and Social Development spoke about the Social Protection
component. He acknowledged the Bank's ICR mission Aide Memoire and the Beneficiary Survey. Noted
was that the project created the basis for a nationwide network for social protection, and has enabled the
Ministry to better perform its pension policy monitoring function. He was not, however, in full agreement
with the suggestion of a unified software system for pension benefits administration, and noted the
decentralized nature of the regional pension administration and indicated that this needs be addressed first.
Ms. Moskvina, Deputy Minister of Labor and Social Development, indicated that the Employment Services
component was admittedly developed with very ambitious objectives. This was due to the expected large
scale unemployment in 1992. Some of the successes of the project, she pointed out, were as a result of the
regional focus of the project, and the international expertise provided.  She emphasized that the
recommended changes could not be implemented without the will of the Russian counterpart.
Another representative of the MLSD responsible for the employment services component, indicated that the
replication of project activities were key to reformning the level of service in employment offices. She
acknowledged that the MLSD needs to continue this exchange and play a central coordinating role so as to
systematically capitalize on the successes of the project. An interesting comment made was with regard to
the level of service achieved by the Employment Service, and how they were very quickly able to implement
new management techniques and solve problems differently from other agencies. She indicated that
perhaps the FES was better suited to under take this project because of its independent nature.
The Ministry of Finance representative noted that she thought the project was not realistic at its inception,
but through the restructuring, and with more emphasis on portfolio monitoring (ie. through the CPPR
process), the project emerged as a success.
The following were in attendance at the workshop.
Attendees & Titles
I . Yu. Liublin, 1 st Deputy Minister of Labor and Social Development
2. M. Moskvina, Deputy Minister of Labor and Social Development
3. L. Eltsova, Deputy Head of Federal Employment Service Department, Ministry of Labor and Social
Development
4. V. Sergeev, Head of PCU
5. A. Goriachev, Deputy Head of PCU
6. G. Chemolujskiy, Junior Specialist, PCU
7. S. Trapezin, Administrator, PCU
8. M. Ershova, Bookkeeper, PCU
9. V. Demchenko, Interpreter, PCU
10. M. Zakharenko, Leading Specialist, International Financial Organization Departrnent, Ministry of
Finance
11. V. Trubin, Deputy Head of Russian Foundation for Social Reforms
12. E. Feaktistiova, Head of Unit, Russian Foundation for Social Reforms
13. N. Bezgrebelnaya, Consultant, Russian Foundation for Social Reforms
-46 -



14. A. Alexandrova, Operations Officer, The World Bank Moscow Office
15. I. Soboleva, Russian Academy for Sciences, Economy Institute
16. E. Vinogradova, Russian Academy for Sciences, The Institute for Social and Economic Issues of
Population
17. M. Macica, Operations Analyst, World Bank
- 47 -



