Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19843 UG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR24.7 MILLION (US$34.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR THE
SECOND ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 3, 1999
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 1999)
Currency Unit = Uganda Shilling
Uganda Shilling 1= US$ 0.000664
US$ 1 = Uganda Shilling 1505
FISCAL YEAR
July  June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BFP                         Budget Framework Paper
DANIDA                      Danish Agency for International Development
DDP                         District Development Plan
DFID - UK                   Department for International Development - United Kingdom
EFMP                        Economic and Financial Management Project
EFMP II                     Second Economic and Financial Management Project
FMS                         Fiscal Management Systems
GOU                         Government of Uganda
ICBP                        Institutional Capacity Building Project
IDA                         International Development Association
LGDP                        Local Government Development Program - Phase I
LG BFP                      Local Government Budget Framework Paper
LSP                         Letter of Sectoral Policy
MoFPED                      Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
MoLG                        Ministry of Local Government
MPS                         Ministry of Public Service
MTEF                        Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NDF                         Nordic Development Fund
NSDS                        National Service Delivery Survey
OAG                         Office of the Auditor General
OOB                         Outcome Oriented Budgeting
PIM                         Project Implementation Manual
PSR                         Public Service Reform
UBOS                        Uganda Bureau of Statistics
UCS                         Uganda Computer Services
UMI                         Uganda Management Institute
UNCDF                       United Nations Capital Development Fund
UPPAP                       Uganda Participatory Poverty Assessment Project
VFM                         Value For Money Audit
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   James W. Adams
Sector Manager/Director:   Demba Ba
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Gaiv M. Tata



UGANDA
Second Economic and Financial Management Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                        3
2. Key performance indicators                                                           3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   8
2. Key policy and institutional reformns supported by the project                       9
3. Benefits and target population                                                      10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                            11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         14
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                            15
2. Financial                                                                           15
3. Technical                                                                           15
4. Institutional                                                                       15
5. Social                                                                              15
6. Environmental assessment                                                            16
7. Participatory approach                                                              16
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      16
2. Critical risks                                                                      16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      17



G. Main Credit conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                             17
2. Other                                                                                18
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           19
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Surnmary                                                           20
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      25
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           30
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary             31
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                 32
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         33
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       39
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                         41
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    42
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              44
Annex 11: Letter of Sectoral Policy                                                        46



UGANDA
Second Economic and Financial Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTPS
Date: November 3, 1999                            Team Leader: Gaiv M. Tata
Country Manager/Director: James W. Adams          Sector Manager/Director: Demba Ba
Project ID: P044679                               Sector(s): BF - Public Financial Management, BY - Other
Public Sector Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[II Loan       1 Credit        O Grant         Ol Guarantee    [ Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m) 34.04
Proposed Terms: O To be defined   M Multicurrency El Single currency
Ol Standard Variable O Fixed        El LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):            10
Years to maturity:               40
Commitment fee:                  0.5
Service charge                   0.75%
Government                                                     0.00           0.00           0.00
IBRD
IDA                                                            7.96          26.08          34.04
LOCAL CONTRIBUTION                                             3.01            1.10          4.11
NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND                                        0.43            3.73          4.16
Total:                                                        11.40          30.91          42.31
Borrower:
Guarantor: Not applicable
Responsible agency:
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
Address: P. 0. Box 8147 Kampala, Uganda.
Contact Person: Mrs. Mary Muduuli, Director Budget
Tel: 256-41-344535                Fax: 256-41-250005                Email: mcmud@starcom.co.ug
Uganda Bureau of Statistics
Address: Entebbe
Contact Person: Mr. J. Mubiru, Acting Executive Director
Tel: 256-41-320741, 320165                Fax: 256-42-320147                Email: ubos®infocom.co.ug



Uganda Management Institute
Address: P. 0. Box 20131 Kampala, Uganda
Contact Person: Mr. James Kalebo, Director
Tel: 256-41-259722                 Fax: 256-41-259581                 Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual      2.7         10.3         12.1         6.7         2.2
Cumulative     2.7          13.0         25.1        31.8        34.0
Project implementation period: 1/1/00 to 6/30/03
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2003
OCS PAD P(  Odtr9 1998
-2 -



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to improve the effectiveness of public expenditure management
processes (i.e. the Government planning/budgeting, financial management and monitoring/evaluation
processes). The project will achieve this through: (i) improving and harmonising the central and local
government planning and budgetary processes and supporting the decentralization of the development
budget; (ii) strengthening financial management especially through improving accounting processes; (iii)
building capacity to monitor development performance, Govermment service delivery and the impact of
public expenditure on poverty trends; and (iv) testing the effectiveness and sustainability of a distance
learning center (as part of a global knowledge-sharing program) in supporting capacity building programs
for the public and private sectors.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
There are four sets of performance indicators: (1) better budgetary control (as measured by reduced
re-allocations, increased resource transfers to local governments and higher percentage of collection of
non-tax revenues); (2) improved financial management (as measured by more timely preparation and
auditing of accounts, greater value for money and reduced level of unaccounted government funds); (3)
better management of data on poverty trends and Government service delivery (as measured by availability
of survey data within six months of field activities); and (4) demand for and sustainability of distance
learning center services (measured by number of participants attending courses).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16540-UG                        Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/20/97
The Sector-related CAS Goal supported by the program is to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of
Government service delivery. The CAS includes this project as part of its assistance strategy for
supporting improvements in the public expenditure management process.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Capacity Building Issues
The focus of the expenditure management reform is to strengthen the Government's capacity in
planning and budgeting, financial management and statistics; current weaknesses arise due to lack of
sufficient numbers of skilled staff especially in the numbers of professionally qualified accountants and
economists. The context for capacity building in these areas is set within an overall environment of
weaknesses in Uganda in capacities from policy development through to implementation (i.e. insufficient
managerial and technical skills). Since 1992, the Government has been attempting to redress its capacity
limitations through its Public Service Reform Program (PSR). The central thrust of the PSR program was
initially to reduce overall staffing levels and to redeploy the resources thus saved into increasing wages for
the civil servants who remained. Despite the general increases in wages, the PSR program has thus far not
systematically addressed the need for a differentiated salary structure which allows the Government to hire,
retain and motivate professionally qualified staff who possess skills that are in short supply in the local
- 3 -



market. Further, there has been considerable "gap filling" technical assistance utilized by individual
ministries without there being an overall framework in place for how such technical assistance can be
utilized to develop in-house capacities that would remain after the assistance ends.
The second factor impacting the capacity building environment has been the Government's
decentralization program which commenced in FY1993/94. Given the substantial shifts in service delivery
responsibility resulting from the program (and as subsequently embodied in the 1995 Constitution and the
1997 Local Government Act), it was necessary to review the locus of capacity building (i.e. whether in
ministries or at district level or below). The comprehensive review of central government structures taking
into account the decentralization program and budget affordability constraints was completed in early
1998 and in mid-1998, new ministerial structures were announced on the basis of the review. The
implementation of the restructuring program is currently ongoing as vacancies which had been "frozen"
pending the review are finally being filled. However, the restructuring process has not as yet extended to
the local governments which also need to adjust their structures in light of their new responsibilities.
The project design takes into account the overall environment and the current evolving situation
and proposes a transitional strategy given the general shortage of such skills within the economy. The first
element of the strategy is to ensure appropriate staffing for the financial management and information
systems positions in the Government; this will entail recruitment and retrenchment. The second element of
the strategy is to increase the professional requirements for senior positions and to offer incentives to staff
to undergo training to increase their qualifications and credentials. The third element of the strategy is to
continue to acquire these skills externally through entering into a twinning arrangement and recruiting
expatriate Ugandans on a contract basis. As more staff within the civil service acquire professional
qualifications, the need for the externally acquired skills will diminish and eventually be eliminated. This
approach is based on the extremely critical assumption that those acquiring professional skills will remain
within the civil service which will require that they be remunerated at a level in line with the market
comparators. Given that there is currently a significant mismatch between civil service salaries and market
comparators for all professionally qualified staff, the Government plans to address this issue within the
context of a broader pay reform strategy. There have been recently completed studies (job evaluation and
market comparators studies) and a pay reform strategy is under preparation based on these studies as part
of the PSR program.
Changes in Expenditure Management Processes
The issues of building capacity are further complicated by the fact that human resource
strengthening must be undertaken in the context of and concurrently with systemic or process changes.
These changes result from two factors. First, as discussed earlier, there has been a substantial shift of
service delivery responsibilities from central governmuent to local governments which requires changes in
the expenditure management processes. Second, after the initial phase of the expenditure management
reform which successfully instituted controls over the macro-economic aggregates, the Government is
placing a much greater emphasis on service delivery (i.e. the outcomes of the publicly funded services). In
this regard, the Government has committed itself to moving to Outcome Oriented Budgeting and this also
requires changes to the expenditure management processes.
Links with other reform programs
The expenditure management reform is closely inter-linked with the PSR and the decentralization
programs; changes in one reform program need to be closely co-ordinated with changes in the other two.
For example, in order to implement Outcome Oriented Budgeting, there is need for managers to have
- 4 -



additional flexibility in making personnel decisions and for the performance management systems to have
sufficient rewards for managers whose decisions result in higher levels of service delivery. Such changes
could only be introduced in the context of the PSR program.
Impact of sectoral issues on component design
The impact of the sectoral issues on the main areas of focus under the project are discussed below:
(1)    Planning and budgeting and resource transfers.
(a)   The main issue is that the transfer of responsibilities to local governments has not been matched by
commensurate levels of resource transfers. Between FY1 993/94 and now, increasing proportions of the
resources in the Government's recurrent budget (around 37% by FY1999/00) are being transferred through
the inter-governmental transfer system (as unconditional and conditional grants) to local governments.
However, the development budget resources which constitute a significant proportion of discretionary
resources have not yet been decentralized and the bulk of the resources continue to be channelled through
sector investment programs managed by central government ministries. The decentralization of the
development budget has, hence, been a major sectoral issue which the Government has been evaluating for
some years. There have been some modest efforts to provide development budget resources to districts and
there have been some donor assisted programs where donors have directly financed the development
budgets of certain districts. Similarly, the Government developed criteria for decentralization of the
development budget resources to local governments and piloted these criteria in eight locations. Based on
this experience and after undertaking a major review of its options, the Government recently formulated a
policy on the decentralization of the development budget. The planning and budgeting component deals
with developing and supporting the implementation framework for this policy. At the same time, the
piloting of this new policy and implementation framework will be assisted through the IDA funded Local
Government Development Program - Phase I (LGDP).
(b)    The second issue relates to the integration of central and local government planning processes.
Transfer of development resources to local governments requires formulation of development programs and
the integration of these programs into the national planning process. The annual medium-term planning
process (the Budget Framework Paper [BFP] preparation process) has been expanded from the planning
cycle for FY99/00 to include the preparation of BFPs by all local governments. This allows local
governments to identify their resource needs and programs in the context of the overall resource envelope
available to the Government. The experience during the introductory year for local government BFPs has
been positive - local govemments have better budgeted for revenues and the priority programs identified
have high congruence with nationally identified priorities. This process needs to occur in a timely manner
in the future which will allow for local government BFPs to be consolidated into the national BFP and for
local government plans to be consolidated into the national plan.
(c)    The third issue relates to planning processes not completely integrating planning for recurrent and
development budgets. As a consequence, the development budget has historically focused on
construction/rehabilitation of infrastructure which may not have been the most appropriate method of
improving service delivery. Where the development budget has focused on service delivery, this has
resulted in recurrent costs being financed from the development budget without necessarily incorporating
the impact of similar expenditures being financed under the recurrent budget;
(d)    The fourth issue is one which arises from two statutory requirements but is related to the need to
clarify the content or the outputs of various planning processes in the central and local governments and the
institutional responsibilities for managing different aspects of the process. First, there are various
processes/instruments being utilized in the planning process (the Budget Framework Preparation, the
Medium Term Expenditure Framework and the preparation of the District Development Plan, etc.). There
is a need to demarcate the sequencing and content of the planning process and the documents produced
-5-



therefrom. In addition, the need to establish the National Planning Authority which has been defined in the
1995 Constitution requires a review of the demarcation of existing planning responsibilities;
(e)    The fifth issue is associated with the post-decentralization restructuring of Government discussed
earlier. There is need to ensure that: (i) budget resources released from downsizing of central government
ministries for decentralized functions are transferred to local governments; and (ii) restructuring of local
governments also occurs. While this issue will not be dealt with specifically under EFMP II, it is expected
that the Government will address it in the broader context of the FY2000/01 planning and BFP process;
and
(f)    The final issue relates to the transparency of the budget process and dissemination of results to the
public at large. The transparency of the current process has improved markedly over the last few years as
a variety of stakeholders have been included in the budget preparation process ranging from central
government ministries to local governments and briefings provided to and exchange of views sought with
donors and Parliament. However, the limitations relate to: (i) the current format for presentation of the
budget and the ability of non-technical persons to assimilate the budget documentation; (ii) the need to
relate the budgeted costs with the expected service levels; (iii) the lack of a systematic process for reporting
the actual outcomes as compared with the budget; and (iv) the timely involvement of the relevant
Parliamentary committees in the budgetary process.
(2)    Financial management. The sector issues relating to this area pertain to:
(a)    The significant changes to accounting processes which have occurred during the implementation of
the decentralization program. Whereas the new processes for local government accounting have been
documented in the Local Government Act, 1997 and the Local Government Financial and Accounting
Regulations, 1998, the changes to the processes in central government have not yet been undertaken. There
is, hence, need to revise the Public Finance Act, 1964 and to revise the associated Treasury Financial and
Accounting Instructions and to ensure harmonization between the central and local government guidelines.
The formulation of the appropriate legislation and guidelines will need to be followed by a significant effort
to disseminate these to all concerned parties - technicians as well as politicians;
(b)    Attempts were undertaken to improve the financial information systems in central governments in
the context of the IDA funded First Economic and Financial Management Project (EFMP). There has been
only a partial achievement of the objectives under that project - the systems have remained outdated partly
due to non-achievement of project outputs, the rapid advancements in technology and weaknesses in the
organization responsible for managing the system (the Uganda Computer Services department). The last
problem has been exacerbated by the Government's inability to remunerate information system specialists
who are in high demand in the local market. The Government has recently instituted a Fiscal Management
Systems (FMS) study to specify the requirements for financial information systems and to thereafter
identify specific software solutions which can be purchased from the market given weak in-house
capabilities for systems development. The implementation of the FMS study will be supported under the
project;
(c)    There is no uniform classification system utilized across the central and local governments nor is
there an uniform classification utilized between the recurrent and the development budget. The
classification system in the recurrent budget is input oriented and the definition of programs is based
largely on the organization structures (i.e. ministries and departments) and not on the purpose of the
activities supported. The FMS study will also identify a new classification system and its implementation
is to be supported under the project;
(3)    Statistics. The issues in this area relate to:
(a)    The monitoring of the impact of public expenditure on macro economic growth and poverty trends
has been funded in an ad hoc manner and the institution managing the statistical gathering, analysis and
dissemination has been weak. While the Government has largely managed to continue with the required
- 6-



frequency of household expenditure surveys, it has been unable to finance other key surveys which are
required with some periodicity (e.g. agriculture, labor force, business establishment census and informal
sector surveys). The Government has taken steps to begin to address this issue in a systematic manner. It
has established the Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS) under appropriate legislation in 1998 and has
commenced the process of operationalizing this new entity in 1999. Further, the Government has allocated
separate funding for the establishment of UBOS in its FYI 999/2000 development budget and has begun to
put together a medium-term financing plan for UBOS. Finally, the Government has commenced the
monitoring of poverty trends on a pilot basis in nine districts through the Uganda Participatory Poverty
Assessment Project (UPPAP). The project support is provided within this framework;
(b)    Sectoral and local government planning remains weak and the focus of macro-economic planning
and budgeting is on allocation of financial resources and on monitoring the utilization of inputs. There is
insufficient monitoring of outcomes and outputs being achieved and little consideration to the unit costs of
service delivery. The Government has taken the initial steps to address this issue. Through the UPPAP,
Government is seeking to improve planning, expenditure prioritization and monitoring and to produce
annual poverty status reports. Further, the Government plans to conduct an annual National Service
Delivery Survey with the first such survey expected to be undertaken during the second half of 1999.
Support for further rounds of the survey will be provided under this project.
(4)    Distance Learning. The three components discussed above depend substantially on improved
training and knowledge dissemination as one of the key techniques for addressing capacity constraints.
The extent of training has been limited by the local availability of trainers with relevant knowledge and by
the substantial expense associated with sending Ugandans overseas to acquire such skills through short and
long-term training. In an effort to address these constraints, the Government is piloting the establishment
of a distance leaming center which will be part of a larger global knowledge-sharing network. The
Government strategy - which was designed with significant participation from all key stakeholders during
the National Capacity Assessment initiative - is to approach the distance learning initiative in a holistic
manner rather than to limit it to the public sector and/or to the specific skill areas covered under EFMP II.
This strategy is driven primarily by cost considerations i.e. given the high fixed costs of establishing the
center and the need to ensure sustainability (through cost recovery), it is more advantageous to utilize the
available facilities for a large number of training programs. The inclusion of the private sector in capacity
building efforts also creates a pool of skills within the country especially in specialized areas for which the
Government may not have an ongoing requirement but to which it might require periodic access.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will assist in addressing the following sector issues:
(1)    Harmonization of the central and local government planning processes and institutionalization of
the preparation of local government BFPs;
(2)    New legislative framework for financial management, improved information systems and improved
skills of staff;
(3)    Increased involvement of stakeholders including relevant Parliamentary Committees in the
budgetary process;
(4)   Implementation of the new institutional framework for macro- and poverty statistics;
(5)    Measurement of Government service delivery.
-7 -



The project will not directly address one of the critical areas i.e. pay reform. However, given the
importance of the pay reforms for the achievement of the development objectives of EFMP II, the design
and implementation of an appropriate pay reform strategy is a dated covenant under the project.
The key strategic choices made during project design related to defining the boundaries of the expenditure
management processes to be included under the project and the phasing of activities to be included under
the project. The project focuses on improving the core expenditure allocation and management process i.e.
on how to harmonize resource allocations across sectors and between central and local governments. It
excludes sectoral planning and investment programming; local government planning; and community level
planning; these activities are expected to be (and are being) supported under other projects. Similarly, the
activities included under the project have been limited to the key upfront activities which are required to
commence expenditure management reform i.e. ensuring an appropriate institutional framework is in place,
supporting the consultative Budget Framework Paper (BFP) preparation process and dealing with key
staffing and information systems issues.
The key strategic choice for the distance learning center component was with regard to the location of the
center within the Uganda Management Institute (UMI) and was based on the mandate and autonomy of
UMI, the congruence between the learning center and UMI's existing training programs and an assessment
of UMI's existing capacity.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Planning and budgeting. The component will support strengthening central and local government
planning and budgeting processes. Activities included are: (i) improvements in planning and budgeting
functions and processes in the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development; (ii) improved
transparency and accountability of budget and public expenditure processes including timely involvement
of the relevant Parliamentary Committees; (iii) expanded fiscal decentralization processes; (iv) strengthened
and more effective linkages between national and local government planning and budgeting processes; and
(v) recurrent and development budget integration.
This component will be complemented by parallel co-financing of activities by the Nordic Development
Fund.
Financial Management. The component will support the building of capacity to produce more timely,
transparent and accurate financial and accounting information for both central and local governments.
Activities included are: (i) strengthened human resource capacity for maintaining and improving financial
management systems in central government; (ii) improved management of financial information and
provision of Information Technology support for central and local govermnents; (iii) strengthened capacity
for local governments to maintain and improve financial management systems; (iv) enhanced capacity and
effectiveness of external audit function; and (v) introduction of improved financial management systems at
central and local governments.
This component will be complemented by parallel financing from the Department for International
Development - United Kingdom through the proposed Financial Accountability Project which will support
strengthening of the internal and external audit and inspection functions within central and local
governments and in the systematic follow-up of the findings from audits and inspections.
-8 -



Statistics Capacity Building. The component will support the building of capacity to monitor development
performance, Government service delivery and the outcomes of public expenditure on living standards of
different population groups. Activities included: (i) improved capacity of the Uganda Bureau of Statistics
as an organization; (ii) implementation of the National Service Delivery Survey and development of
capacity within UBOS to implement such surveys; (iii) strengthening of household survey capacities within
UBOS; and (iv) relocation of UBOS.
This component will be complemented by parallel co-financing from the Nordic Development Fund and
parallel financing from the Department for International Development - United Kingdom and the Danish
International Development Agency. These projects will provide additional support for the training of
UBOS staff, support the implementation of an integrated information system for national statistics,
strengthen the national economic data management functions and finance the undertaking of a Census of
Business Establishments survey.
Global Distance Learning. The component will test the effectiveness and sustainability of distance
learning in Uganda. The activities include support for: (i) the construction of the distance learning center
and acquisition of related equipment; and (ii) the establishment and operation of the center.
m~~~~~~~~~~~~ iX 
Planning and Budgeting             Other Public        9.93      23.5       7.34      21.6
Sector
Management
Financial Management               Public Financial   19.20      45.4      17.97      52.8
Management
Statistical Capacity Building      Other Public        8.38       19.8      4.63      13.6
Sector
Management
Global Distance Learning           Institutional       3.40       8.0       2.70       7.9
Development
Project Preparation Facility                           1.40        3.3      1.40       4.1
Total Project Costs                   42.31      100.0     34.04     100.0
Total Financing Required                   42.31      100.0     34.04      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
(a)    The key policy reform which has been instituted by the Government relates to decentralization.
The policy framework has been clearly defined in the 1995 Constitution of Uganda and the 1997 Local
Government Act. Further, the Government policy on decentralization of the development budget has been
passed by the Cabinet. Implementation of the policy framework has been uneven across sectors.
Consequently, in the context of the preparation of this project and the LGDP, the principles and policies
underlying the implementation plan will be contained in a joint Letter of Sectoral Policy and the details of
the implementation plan will be contained in a Road Map document.
(b)    Legislation establishing the institutional framework for national statistics and the Uganda Bureau
of Statistics was passed by Parliament in 1998.
-9-



(c)    The outstanding policy reform is the revision of the Government Public Finance Act of 1964 to be
consistent with the Constitution and the Local Government Act. Preparatory work is currently underway to
review the financial policy reforms required as a consequence of decentralization and other advances in
financial management since the previous act. Based on this analysis, the revised Public Finance Act will
be prepared thereafter. The Government is receiving support from DFID-UK in this area.
Other policy reforms associated with expenditure management reform are included as performance
benchmarks under the Third Structural Adjustment Program: (1) maintainance of predictable budget
constraints by limiting supplementaries (i.e. budgetary re-allocations) to 3% of the total budget; (2)
increased flexibility of individual managers to redeploy resources across line item categories; and (3)
increased transfers from the recurrent budget to local governments.
Institutional arrangements for managing the reform programs. Given the considerable linkages
between the various programs (i.e. PSR, decentralization and expenditure management reform), the
Government has established a common institutional structure for co-ordinating implementation in
December 1997 in the context of launching its Public Service Reform Programme 1997-2002. There is a
Cabinet level sub-committee chaired by the Vice-President at the political level and a program
implementation committee chaired by the Head of the Civil Service. Below this, there are various "project"
managers, each of whom is managing certain activities. Key activities under the expenditure management
program (i.e. for information systems) are included under this definition. The institutional arrangements
have commenced and initial indications are that it is working satisfactorily. The Government has also
established: (i) separate arrangements for co-ordination between the EFMP II and LGDP teams and
MoFPED and MoLG with regard to the implementation of the two projects; and (iii) project steering and
technical committees which have co-ordinated preparation and will co-ordinate implementation of EFMP
II. The letter of sector policy confirms the institutional arrangements.
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits of the project are its contribution to improved service delivery from better use of resources,
improved financial accountability for use of resources and monitoring of service delivery.
(1)    Improved planning and links to the decentralization of development resources to local governments.
Two benefits are expected:
(a)    The focus on improving planning in the central and local governments and improving the linkages
between planning at both levels will ensure that greater congruence between national and local priorities.
World-wide experience and the evidence from UPPAP indicate that participation of local communities and
local governments in priority setting leads to more relevant projects/development activities.
(b)    A good upfront budgetary process and restrictions on re-allocations during the fiscal year ensure
greater fiscal discipline. This reduces the risk that low priority activities are included in the Government's
programs through budget supplementaries. Further, when budgets reallocations occur at relatively low
levels, this allows all program managers to expect greater certainty in receiving releases of funds in line
with budgets. These actions also provide a key complementary link with accountability for delivering on
program results being introduced through the PSR program.
(2)   Improved financial accountability at central and local government levels. Benefits would arise
from more timely reporting of financial data and, in the medium-term, reduction in levels of funds usage
which has not been appropriately authorized or is unaccounted for and less diversion of funds from priority
expenditures.
(3)    Monitoring of economic performance, poverty trends and public service delivery. Increased
emphasis on performance monitoring especially by external stakeholders and beneficiaries can be expected
- 10-



to focus the Government on improving the impact of public expenditures.
(4)   Improved technical and managerial capacity of Uganda's public and private sectors and the civil
society thorough the delivery of much needed in-service training and human resource development.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The institutional arrangements are described in para 2 above. Implementation of activities under the project
will be undertaken by mainstreaming project activities under the relevant departments/ ministries. It has
been agreed that: (1) expenditure management reform should be included as a discrete activity under the
PSR 2002 structure; (2) the Director, Budget, Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
will be the responsible manager for this activity (or "project" as defined under the PSR 2002 structure);
(3) the Director, Budget will also be responsible for component 1; the Director/Accounts, Ministry of
Finance, Planning and Economic Development for component 2; the Executive Director, Uganda Bureau
of Statistics for component 3; and the Director, Uganda Management Institute for component 4.
The project financial management arrangements will be established at project commencement in a manner
similar to those for all other IDA funded projects (funds flowing through Special Accounts, contributions
from the Government through the development budget counterpart funds, separately maintained records,
etc.). The Government is, however, taking steps to ensure that the Government departments implementing
the project have enhanced control over non-project resources (i.e. resources allocated to them under the
Government's recurrent budget). As this occurs over the first year of the project, it is expected that there
will be greater managerial control over expenditure authorization within the Government recurrent
budgeting/accounting processes. Starting in FY2000/200 1, the project will test this improvement in
recurrent budget expenditure processes by channelling funds on a periodic lump sum basis from the Project
Special Account to the Govermment recurrent budget. Appropriate controls will be agreed to ensure
sufficient accountability and audit and an acceptable system would be implemented. Finally, by December
2000, the financial management system would be sufficiently strengthened to allow project disbursements
to occur on a quarterly basis based on Project Management Reports which would account for expenditures
occuring in the previous quarter and submit a forecast of resource requirements for the following quarter.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project alternatives adopted led to reduced project complexity (as discussed under strategic choices above).
Project components were further limited by the following choices:
(1) Planning and budgeting component. Financing for district development activities will be provided
through the LGDP and such funds will be channelled through the Government's funds flow systems. The
focus of EFMP II is limited to strengthening the planning and budgeting process and development of the
local govermment BFPs which ensure that the investment programs are grounded in an appropriate context.
(2) Financial management component. To limit the first phase of information systems development to a
manageable level, the improvements will: focus on financial management systems (as opposed to
non-financial data systems which are expected to be developed through sectoral programs); and commence
with the accounting system. The accounting system itself will be implemented in an appropriately phased
manner by piloting in certain ministries and local governments prior to a Government-wide roll-out.
- 11 -



(3) Statistics Capacity Building component. This component has been restricted to building the capacity
within the newly established Uganda Bureau of Statistics to gather and disseminate data for
macro-economic performance, poverty trends and public service delivery. The poverty trends and public
service delivery data will be gathered on an annual basis. There were two objectives in taking a more
lirnited approach. First, the proposed program is largely at the current levels of implementation being
undertaken by the UBOS and will not require added management attention which needs to be focused on
the task of establishing the UBOS. Second, the Government is substantially increasing funding to the
UBOS's core work program beginning in FYl999/2000 with the objective of fully funding its core
activities by the end of the project. The choice made was to ensure sustainability of a core set of functions
before beginning on developing new monitoring and evaluation systems at the sectoral level.
(4) Distance Learning Component. This component will finance the construction of a new building to
house the Distance Learning Center. Retrofitting an existing conference room at UMI, as an option, was
rejected because it was found not to meet space and technical requirements of such a modem center. Use of
facilities of the World Bank Country Office was also rejected because these facilities are already fully
utilized by the Bank's own staff for institutional goals. The option of using Africa Virtual University
(AVU) sites was also considered and rejected because these sites concentrate on skills for undergraduates,
are currently utilized to full capacity and the technology invloved does not offer opportunities for
interactive learning.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
IDA Credit 241 8-UG               Economic and Financial            S             S
Closed as of June 30, 1999        Management
IDA Credit 2736-UG                Inst. Capacity Building           S             S
IDA Proposed                      Local Govt. Development          NA            NA
Program - Phase I
Other development agencies
DANIDA                             Support to Decentralization
DANIDA                             Support to UBOS
UNDP                               District Planning
UNCDF                             District Development
DFID                               Support to Auditor General
DFID                               Support to IGG
DFID                               Proposed Financial
Accountability Program
DFID                               Proposed Support to UBOS
DFID                               UPPAP
EU                                 Human Resources Dev.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 12-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
There are several key lessons learned and incorporated into the project design from the Economic and
Financial Management Project:
(1)    Sustainable capacity building efforts cannot be undertaken in the absence of significant pay
reform, which would allow for professionals (accounting and information management staff) to be hired
and retained in the public service. This issue has been taken care of in the project through three inter-related
actions. First, the recruitment of accounting staff in the central government is a condition of project
effectiveness. Second, implementation of the pay reform strategy is one of the dated covenants even though
the project does not deal directly with this issue which is being addressed as part of the PSR Program.
Third, the project design incorporates an interim approach to financing staff training (especially in
acquiring professional qualifications) and of financing expatriate Ugandans on technical assistance/local
consultancy terms while the pay reform strategy is designed and implemented.
(2)    An information systems/technology strategy and standards and institutional arrangements for
continuous management and monitoring are necessary. Given the substantial decentralization program,
these institutional arrangements need to ensure consistency across both central and local governments.
The strategy formulated needs to deal realistically with existing constraints (e.g. making substantial use of
outsourcing if there are problems with hiring professionals within the Government), ensure that appropriate
sequencing of actions is undertaken (e.g. developing general systems architecture before specific system
requirements are developed) and institute appropriate safeguards (e.g. separating system design/supervision
contracts from software/ hardware acquisition contracts). The project has incorporated the lessons in its
design - consultancy support is being provided in undertaking the Fiscal Management Systems study
(which will identify the overall Information Systems architecture, define a detailed expenditure
classification system and develop specifications for selection of a software package for a financial
management/accounting system). An interim strategy to transform the incumbent organization (Uganda
Computer Services) to allow it to manage the implementation of the FMS study recommendations is also a
requirement of project effectiveness. Finally, the project design incorporates extended consultancy support
to UCS for supervising the implementation of the software package.
(3)    The management of complex programs and co-ordination of several reform programs (civil service
reform, decentralization and expenditure management reform) should be institutionalized within the existing
Government structure. Utilizing projects as the fora for such co-ordination may not be the optimal
solution. Further, appropriate sequencing of activities across the various reforms are required to be
managed in a co-ordinated manner. The Government has incorporated this lesson into the design of
institutional arrangements for the Public Service Reform 1997-2002 Programme.
(4)    A much closer linkage needs to be made between the availability/recruitment of counterpart staff
within the Government, the recruitment of advisors and the acquisition of office equipment to get full
productivity out of the advisor/counterpart teams. As noted earlier, the recruitment of accounting staff in
the central government is a condition of project effectiveness.
Other lessons learned from the Institutional Capacity Building Project (which had its mid-term review in
September 1997) are:
(5)    Prioritization of overall program to a manageable set of activities and the need to have appropriate
sequencing of activities among the cross-cutting programs. This lesson has been incorporated into the
project design and is reflected in the strategic choices discussed under Dl; and
(6)    Prioritization of IDA funded project activities within the context of the Government's overall
program. The EFMP II project was developed initially as an overall expenditure management reform
program together with interested donors - DFID, DANIDA, UNCDF and the Nordic Development Fund.
The IDA project was only demarcated separately after other donors had already indicated significant
- 13 -



interest/likelihood of financing the remaining program activities allowing IDA to play its role as financier
of the last resort.
Finally, lessons learned from ongoing distance learning initiatives indicate that:
(7)    By focusing on training for skills most in demand, Africa Virtual University has been able to
attract students who are willing to pay for their education, thus making the program sustainable overtime.
From this lesson, the project will use a demand driven approach in arriving at the courses to be offered by
the center. A lesson from an evaluation of a pilot distance learning program in Uganda (undertaken by the
Bank's Country Office), indicates that in order to make the courses relevant and to effectively respond to
demand, it is necessary to involve the stakeholders in the course design and delivery. The project will
therefore, to the extent possible, involve the local academia and other stakeholders in the course design and
delivery.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The decentralization policy is clearly enshrined in the Constitution of Uganda. Limitations on the role of the
Central Government, the transfer mechanisms of inter-governmental finance and the irreversibility of levels
of funds to be sent to local governments as unconditional funds are included in the Constitution and further
detail provided in the Local Government Act of 1997. The process of decentralization has been underway
since 1993, with around 37% of recurrent budget resources being transferred directly to local governments
and several donors assisting in development activities directly at the district level. The project is, hence,
being implemented within an overall institutional setting which is in place. With regard to the overall
dialogue with IDA, Government has already committed itself to the key policy reforms to implement the
decentralization program in the context of the Third Structural Adjustment Credit.
The Government has led the process of project preparation with limited technical support from IDA. The
process has been much lengthier than initially programmed since there has been very limited use of
consultants to support project preparation. This has meant that key Ministry staff, long-term consultants
(who are mainly returning expatriate Ugandans) and other long-term advisors have had to prepare the
project in addition to their normal responsibilities which were considerable to begin with. The process has
culminated into the program that is fully "owned" by the Govermment. The senior management in the
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development has also remained steadfastly supportive of the
preparation approach, the project content and the upfront actions required to ensure that the project meets
its development objectives.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has had an ongoing involvement with expenditure management reform through a series
of Technical Assistance credits which have provided support to the Ministry of Finance, Planning and
Economic Development (including the Second and Third Technical Assistance Projects and the Economic
and Financial Management Project). It has also concurrently been involved in supporting Public Service
Reform (through EFMP and the Institutional Capacity Building Project) and decentralization (through the
ICBP and the preparation of the LGDP). The Bank has, hence, been well positioned in providing advice to
the Government on harmonization of activities across all the three reform programs. The Bank has
collaborated effectively with other key donors in all three reform programs. Donor representatives have
participated during all of the preparation missions and the financing provided under the project has been
designed taking into account all other donor financing.
- 14-



The Bank also needed to consider the importance of this project in its country dialogue. Given the
policy shifts with regard to decentralization of the development budget, the Bank had to be pro-active and
engage early with the Government in the policy formulation, piloting and roll-out process for
decentralization of external financing support since the results of this process will have significant
implications for the remaining IDA lending program. Further, by engaging in the process of developing
performnance and accountability systems, the project assists in improving the institutional context within
which all IDA (and other donor financed) projects are implemented. This is of critical importance given
that Uganda is one of the pilot countries for implementing the Comprehensive Development Framework
where the Bank will depend significantly on the Government's performance and financial accountability
systems.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = %
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Since the project is a technical assistance/capacity building project, it is not appropriate to undertake
cost-benefit or cost effectiveness analysis.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million: FRR   %
Not Applicable
Fiscal Impact:
Not Applicable
3. Technical:
Not Applicable
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The executing agencies are the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development; the Uganda
Bureau of Statistics and the Uganda Management Institute. The project will strengthen the institutional
capacity of MoFPED in line with its mandate as per the recent restructuring of Government ministries; the
approach is detailed in the project description contained in Annex 2. UBOS is in the process of being
established and the project will support its establishment and the development of its capacity in line with
the agreed medium-term business plan and annual work program. These documents are available in the
project files.
b. Project management:
Assessments of project management capacity for procurement and financial management were undertaken
by IDA staff and form part of the project files. The Government is taking actions to strengthen capacity in
both procurement and financial management based on these assessments.
5. Social:
Not Applicable.
- 15 -



6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category i A Z C
[l B l FI
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and wlhat they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach riot used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Not Applicable.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The project was initially prepared as part of the expenditure management reform program by working
groups composed of central government officials and representatives of and local government groups and
interests. After consultation with IDA and representatives of multilateral and bi-lateral donors, the current
project was demarcated on the basis of identified financing by other donors for some parts of the program.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project's sustainability will be assured when the processes, information systems and institutions for
expenditure management continue to run well after the end of the project. This presupposes sufficiently
qualified human resources to continue managing the processes. One of the key issues therefore relates to
pay reform and other measures which will allow Government to attract and retain such skills.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
Proper functioning of Government          S         Institutional arrangements have been
institutional arrangements which will              instituted. The optimal functioning of
manage consistent decision making                   these arrangements would be closely
process across expenditure                          monitored.
management, civil service and local
government reform programs.
Maintainance of hard budget constraint    M         Agreed conditionality under SAC III
program
Managerial flexibility to redeploy        S         Agreed conditionality under SAC III
resources                                           program
Increased proportion of non-statutory     N         Agreed conditionality under SAC III
expenditures in recurrent budget                    program
transferred to local governments
Completion of central government          M         Reviews completed; donor funding for
restructuring                                       retrenchment is partially in place.



Completion of pay reform process          H         Timetable provided prior to project
negotiations; design of pay reform
strategy is dated project covenant,
Development of grassroots and other       M         Several participatory approaches are
civil society institutions is expected to           being piloted under other projects;
occur exogenously.                                  approach developed under UPPAP is
slated for country-wide roll-out.
From Components to Outputs
Recruitment of accountants in central     M         Condition of project effectiveness
government
Implementation of policy and guidelines   N         Government policy in place and
on decentralization of development                  preparation of guidelines is dated
budget                                              covenant
Completion of information systems         M         Condition of effectiveness
requirements analysis
Completion of National Service            N         Contract pending signature.
Delivery Survey
DFID funding for Financial                N
Accountability Project
DFID, DANIDA and NDF funding for          N
UBOS
Revision of Public Finance Act            M         Presentation of amended Public Finance
bill to Parliament is a dated covenant
The manager of the Distance Learning      M         UMI was selected as host institution,
Center will not generate enough                     given its private sector orientation and
resources to cover operating and                    the proven track record of management
reinvestment cost                                   for marketing its courses
Overall Risk Rating                       S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
1. (a)  Completion of the process of accountants in line ministries;
(b) Completion of an interim strategy for the Uganda Computer Services (UCS);
(c) Appointment of Auditor General;
(d) Appointment of an Executive Director for UBOS and approval of a staffing plan; and
(e) Final Project Implementation Manual.
2.     The UBOS subsidiary agreement and the UMI subsidiary agreement should have been executed
between the Govermment and UBOS and UMI respectively.
- 17 -



3.    (a)   the UBOS Project Agreement and the UMI Project Agreement have been duly authorized
or ratified by UBOS and UMI, respectively and are legally binding upon UBOS and UMI, respectively, in
accordance with their respective terms; and
(b)    the UBOS Subsidiary Agreement and the UMI Subsidiary Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower, UBOS and UMI and are legally binding upon the Borrower and
UBOS and UMI, respectively, in accordance with their respective terms.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Operational covenants under section 3.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement as further detailed in
Schedule 4. Key dated covenants include:
(a)    Preparation of guidelines for new projects under the development budget by March 31, 2000;
(b)    Confirmation of the information systems/information technology requirements on the basis of the
recommendations of the FMS study, the Interim Strategy for UCS and the UBOS Information Technology
study by June 30, 2000.
(c)    A Public Service Pay Reform Strategy to be adopted by not later than May 31, 2000;
(d)    A bill revising the Public Finance Act of 1964 to be presented to Parliament not later than
December 31, 2000.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
D 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
X 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Readiness for implementation was further enhanced by the following actions taken prior to negotiations and
Board presentation:
Conditions of Negotiations which were fulfilled included presentation of:
(a)    Final draft of the Letter of Sectoral Policy;
(b)    Revised version of the Project Implementation Manual;
(c)    Action Plan for project financial management;
(d)    Timetable for the design and implementation of a pay reform strategy; and
(e)    Confirmation of approach to the independence of the Auditor General's Office.
Conditions of Board Presentation:
(a)    Signed and final version of the Letter of Sectoral Policy; and
(b)    Certification by IDA Financial Management Specialist and IDA Procurement Specialist regarding
project procurement/disbursement arrangements.
- 18 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Ti 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Gaiv   Tata                      Demba Ba                              s W. Adams
Team Leader                      Sector ManagerlDirector           Country Manager/Director
- 1 9-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UGANDA: Second Economic and Financial Management Project
Keyo"w 0.                                    .......a. .........
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:     Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improved effectiveness and  1. Improvements in    1.1 Sector Program       1. Government services
efficiency of Government   quantity, quality and  Evaluations, Service     reach poor segments of
service delivery        timeliness of Government   Delivery Surveys, Poverty  population and improve
services                 Status Reports           quality of life.
2. Measures of unit costs of 2.1 Public Expenditure    2. Governument services
Government services      Reviews                  support increased economic
activity creating income for
poor.
Project Development      Outcome / Impact         Project reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
Improved effectiveness and  1. Better planned     1.1 Public Expenditure   1. Revised salary structure
efficiency of public     expenditure and increased   Reviews and Project   allowing for better pay to
expenditure management   value for money for      Evaluation               professional staff.
government expenditures    1.2 Annual Program     2. Development of
Statements               grassroots and other civil
1.3 Auditor General's   society institutions.
Report
2. Reduction in loss/waste  2.1 Public Expenditure
and misappropriation of    Reviews and Project
public resources         Evaluation
2.2 Auditor General's
Report
3. Improved monitoring of 3.1 Household Surveys
development performance,  3.2 Macro-economic
poverty trends and public   performance data
service delivery         3.3 NSDS
3.4 Poverty Status Report
- 20 -



Hirrh of Objetve iYs                            Montorng  Elat
Output from each        Output Indicators:       Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Central and local    1.01 Timely monitoring and 1.01.1 Supplementary  1. Funding for piloting of
government planning and   evaluation reports for public schedule, approved budget  decentralization of the
budgeting processes     expenditure including    and budget outturn      development budget to be
strengthened with respect to non-tax revenues                            provided by LGDP.
efficiency and effectiveness  1.02 Increased central  1.02.1 Revenue projections 2. Proper functioning of
through:                Government non-tax       and outtums             Government institutional
revenue collections                             arrangements to coordinate
1.03 Elimination of     1.03.1 Domestic Arrears   decision making across
unauthorized domestic   Item in approved budget   expenditure management,
arrears                                         civil service and local
1.1 Improved planning and 1.10 Budget Supplementary 1.10.1 Approved budget and government reform
budgeting functions in  Expenditures requiring   budget outturn          programs.
MoFPED;                 additional resources below                       3. Third Structural
3%                                              Adjustment Program policy
1.2 Improved transparency  1.20 Growth in public  1.20.1 Baseline and    conditions. i.e. hard budget
and accountability of budget awareness, acceptance and  repetitive surveys  constraint, flexibility to
and public expenditure  confidence as per indicators                     redeploy resources, and
processes;              to be defined prior to project                   increasing proportion of
effectiveness on the basis of                    expenditures from recurrent
study currently underway.                       budget transferred to local
1.21 Increased level of  1.21 Baseline and repetitive governments.
budget process transparency surveys             4. Public Service Reform
per indicators to be defined.                   Program activities i.e.
1.30 Increased level of                         ministerial reviews
1.3 Improved and expanded development funds to   1.30.1 Public Expenditure  implementation completed
fiscal decentralization  districts               Reviews and Project     and related retrenchment
process;                1.31 Increased level of local Evaluation         completed utilizing donor
government participation in  1.31.1 Project Evaluation   funding.
development project
implementation
1.40 Local Governments
1.4 Strengthened and more  prepare own Budget    1.40.1 Annual evaluation of
effective link between  Framework Planning papers local government BFPs
national and local govt  1.41 Realistic local
planning and budgeting  government budgets in line  1.41.1 Local government
processes; and          with District Development  budgets, Public Expenditure
Plans, BFPs and national   Reviews and project
priorities              evaluation
1.50 Integrated BFP and
1.5 Recurrent and       budget process           1.50.1 BFP and budget
development budgets                              documents
integrated
- 21 -



2. More timely, transparent 2.01 Timely production of 2.01.1 Public Expenditure
and accurate financial and  accounting and auditing    Reviews and Project
accounting infofrmation for  reports with appropriate    Evaluation
both central and local  follow-up
governments
2.1 Strengthened human    2.10 Increased professional 2.10.1 Project Evaluation
capacity for maintaining and accountants and accounting
improving financial     technicians in civil service
management systems in    and reduced level of external
central government      support from twinning
partner and retuming
expatriate TA
2.2 Improved financial data 2.20 UCS (or successor)   2.20.1 Project Evaluation
processing capacity and    organization strengthened to
provision of information    manage implementation of
technology support for both FMS study findings.
central and local
governments
2.3 Strengthened human    2.30 Increased professional 2.30.1 Project Evaluation
capacity for maintaining and accountants and accounting
improving financial     technicians in civil service
management systems in    and reduced level of extemal
local governments       support from twinning
partner and retuming
expatriate TA
2.4 Enhanced capacity and 2.40 Value for money audits 2.40.1 VFM audits and
effectiveness of extemal    conducted in selected  project evaluation of
audit function          ministries and districts and  follow-up
results utilized for
follow-up.              2.41.1 Project Evaluation
2.41 Increased professional
accountants and accounting
technicians in civil service
and reduced level of support
from twinning partner and
retuming expatriate TA
2.5 Improved financial                           2.50. lFMS study document
management systems      2.50 Uniform accounting   2.50.2 Implementation
introduced in central and    procedures and systems in  progress as assessed by
local governments       pilot central ministries and  project staff
local governments leading to
more timely information.
- 22 -



3. Improved capacity to
monitor development
performance, public service
delivery and impact of
public expenditure on
poverty trends
3.1 Establishing capacity of 3.10 UBOS functions as a  3.10.1 Project Evaluation
UBOS to manage national  separate entity by meeting
statistics               agreed indicators for
organizational performance.
3.2 Timely publication of   3.20 Availability of survey  3.20.1 Survey Instruments
National Household Survey data for public use within 6
and National Service     months of completion of
Delivery Survey          field work
3.3 Increased provision of  3.30 Indicators related to   3.30.1 Baseline Survey
access to information to    channels of access, ease of  3.30.2 End of Project
clients                  use and presentation to be   Survey
defined prior to project
effectiveness
3.4 Improved data quality   3.40 Indicators related to   3.40.1 Baseline Survey
completeness, reliability and 3.40.2 End of Project
accuracy of data to be   Survey
defined prior to project
effectiveness
4. Cost effectiveness and   4.1 Center meets all  4.10 StaffAssessment
sustainability of distance    operating and investment
learning center programs   cost by end of fourth year of
evaluated through pilot  operation.
program.
- 23 -



mmj~.fes.                                                                    .........g v~ut~n Crt~IAn~A
Project Components I    Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:     (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                       Outputs)
1. Planning and Budgeting  $9.93 million                                 1. Completion of Fiscal
Component                                                                Management Systems
(FMS) study.
2. Financial Management  $19.20 million                                  2. Completion of first
Component                                                                National Service Delivery
Survey in 1999
3. Statistics Component    $8.38 million                                 3. DFID support for
capacity building activities
in OAG will be implemented
per program.
4. Global Distance      $3.40 million                                    4. Proposed DFID funded
Learning                                                                 Financial Accountability
Proj ect implemented
simultaneously.
5. Proposed DFID,
DANIDA and NDF support
to the UBOS implemented
simultaneously.
6. Policy and guidelines on
transfer of development
funds to districts will be
implemented.
7. Revised and updated
Public Finance Act -
support provided through
DFID funded project.
8. Recruitment of central
government accountants
completed by project
effectiveness.
9. Distance Learning Center
will not generate resources
to cover operating and
reinvestment costs.
- 24 -



Annex 2: Project Description
UGANDA: Second Economic and Financial Management Project
Overview:
The project development objective is to improve the effectiveness of public expenditure management
processes (i.e. the Government planning/budgeting, financial management and monitoring/evaluation
processes). The project will achieve this through: (i) improving and integrating the central and local
government planning and budgetary processes and supporting the decentralization of the development
budget; (ii) strengthening financial management especially through improved accounting processes; (iii)
building capacity to monitor development performance, public service delivery and the impact of public
expenditure on poverty trends; and (iv) testing the effectiveness and sustainability of a distance learning
center in supporting capacity building programs for the public and private sectors.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$9.93 million
Planning and Budgeting. The Government is carrying out reforms intended to transform the existing
traditional budgeting process to Outcome Oriented budgeting (OOB) emphasising service delivery with
strong linkages between resources and the objectives of expenditure. Further, the Government also is in
the process of implementing its recently approved policy on the decentralization of the development budget.
The component will support strengthening of central and local government planning and budgeting
processes to assist in these reforms. Activities included are:
1.    Improvements in planning and budgeting functions and processes in the Ministry of Finance,
Planning and Economic Development. Since 1993, the budget has increased in complexity with the
incorporation of the Budget Framework Paper and need to strengthen the planning aspects of the budget
have increased. The budget preparation stage now stretches from October to June and has opened up more
to stakeholders. A key aspect of budget preparation is the increased focus on sectoral policy analysis and
the linkage between allocations, sector policies and programmes and sector policy. There is also more
emphasis on sector expenditure priorities within a limited resource envelope. During budget execution, the
key requirement will now be to monitor the expenditure performance and to ensure that spending is in line
with agreed budget policy. This subcomponent, which covers the budget and economic affairs directorates
will provide support for: (a) preparation of manuals on operational procedures of planning and budgeting
processes; (b) review and revision of planning and budget policy with respect to decentralization, domestic
arrears, domestic and external debt and wages and pensions; (c) development of skills for planning and
budgeting for staff of the Directorate of Budget and Directorate of Economic Affairs and the Central
Support Unit; (d) implementation of an improved process of financial and fiscal policy monitoring, analysis
and evaluation; (e) formulation and development of tax and non-tax revenue policies; (f) formulation and
development of systems for revenue analysis and forecasting; (g) review and updating of tax laws; and (h)
development of systems for fiscal information sharing and exchange within MoFPED. Inputs financed will
consist of. (i) training of staff to better carry the mandates of their departments, (ii) vehicles and equipment
for the departments, and (iii) consultancy services to support the staff.
2.    Improved transparency and accountability of budget and public expenditure processes. In order
to carry out meaningful reforms, the Government recognizes the need to open up the budget process to
more stakeholders to allow for more participation and to forge a strategy to get stakeholders to support the
Government's efforts to plan the collection and utilisation of resources. Until FY1998/99, the budget
priorities were largely determined by MoFPED with limited consultations. During the preparation of the
budget for FYI 99 8/99, there were increased efforts by MoFPE[) to open up the process. For the first time
- 25 -



ever, two budget workshops were held with stakeholders including donor and spending agencies. Other
important players like the NGOs and Parliament also joined participants. In preparation of the budget for
FYI 999/2000, the process of consultation has been expanded to local governments which are also
preparing their own BFPs. This subcomponent will finance the development and implementation of an open
budget development process including the timely involvement of relevant Parliamentary Committees in the
budgetary process. In addition, a consultant will be hired to design a communication strategy which
enhances openness in the public expenditure process. The implementation of the
dissemination/communications strategy will also be funded,
3.    Expanded fiscal decentralization processes. The Government of Uganda has been implementing
the decentralisation policy since 1993 the aim of which is to encourage good govemance, increase
participation in and control the decisions making process by the people. The 1995 Constitution and the
1997 Local Government Act provide the legal framework for the decentralization policies. The
implementation of the decentralization policy is in full agreement with Government's reforms in public
expenditure management i.e. the need to improve accountability, transparency and the quality of service
delivery. In FY1993/94, the government started on financial decentralization through phased
decentralization of the recurrent budget. Starting in FY99/00, the Government will commence
implementing its recently approved policy on decentralization of the development budget. This
subcomponent will support the process by financing the following: (a) activities associated with the
decentralization of the development budget including: (i) a review and updating of guidelines for the
decentralization of the development budget; (ii) streamlining and improvement of the system and
procedures to monitor donor financing of local governments; (iii) review of the development budget
portfolio and decentralization of identified on-going projects; (iv) development of criteria for new
development projects and programs consistent with the decentralization framework; (v) implementation of
the new guidelines for the development budget; (b) a review of the size and mode of central governmnent
transfers; and (c) a review and strengthening of fiscal monitoring and reporting systems. This
subcomponent will finance workshops with the central government line ministries that will have their
projects decentralized. Other workshops will be with the districts to launch the decentralization of the
development budget, explaining policies and concepts, methods of transfer and accountability for resources
sent to the districts.
4.    Strengthened and more effective linkages between national and local government planning and
budgeting processes. Under this subcomponent, the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic
Development (MoFPED) will be improving the expansion of the BFP process to districts. Like the BFP at
the centre, the Local Government BFPs are medium-term planning tools for districts. This will be a critical
activity in the budget process from now on. The extension of the BFP to local govemments is also expected
to strengthen further the process of integration of the central and local budget cycles. This will include: (a)
building upon the local government budget framework preparation (LG BFP) process in local governments
which was initiated in FY1999/2000 planning cycle; (b) review of the guidelines and manuals for the LG
BFPs; (c) annual analysis and evaluation of LG BFPs; (d) irnproved co-ordination of institutional
framework of local government planning and budgeting processes to improve interface between MoFPED
and other bodies (National Planning Authority, Local Government Finance Commission, Uganda Local
Authorities Association etc); (e) harmonization of central and local govermment budget processes in terms
of budget cycles and structures.
5.    Recurrent and development budget integration. This will include: (a) integration of planning and
budgeting processes; (b) streamlining the budget code structure to reflect and present integrated budgets;
and (c) streamlining implementation arrangements to remove divisions between budgets in terms of
accounting, management, etc.
- 26 -



6.    Project management. There will be a project management and administration office attached to the
office of the director of budget. This component of the project would finance a lean team comprising a
project coordinator, a procurement expert, an accountant and two or three support staff. This office would
be the liaison office for the component managers and other stakeholders. It would draw up formats for
regular reporting and coordinate the procurement and disbursement processing.
Project Component 2 - US$19.20 million
Financial Management. During the last ten years, government has made efforts to improve the financial
management through restructuring and decentralization of the operational functions of govemment.
However, financial management systems remain weak. Under EFMPII, the financial management systems
would be further strengthened. The component covers the accounting function which deals with the tracking
of funds, the auditing function which is concerned with ensuring that integrity and authenticity of public
spending and the inspection function which is responsible for ensuring compliance with statutory
regulations and accounting procedures in the management of public funds. The component will support
the building of capacity to produce more timely, transparent and accurate financial and accounting
information for both central and local govemments. Activities included are:
1.    Strengthened human resource capacity for maintaining and improvingfinancial management
systems in central government. The accounting function is responsible for the management and control of
public funds throughout government. The offices under this function are responsible for the maintenance of
books of accounts, receipting and banking all revenues into the consolidated fund, ensuring that public
funds are expended only for authorised purposes and preparation of exchequer retums. This
sub-component will include: (a) capacity needs assessment (skills, systems, procedures and equipment); (b)
design and implementation of a program to improve capacity based on the assessment under (a); and (c)
review, revision and dissemination of accounting manuals and guidelines for collecting, recording and
reporting expenditures and non-tax revenue (i.e. revenue other than that collected by the Uganda Revenue
Authority). The project would finance the equipment, vehicles, training, consultancy services in the
Directorate of Accounts in MoFPED and in accounting functions in line ministries;
2.    Improved financial data processing capacity and provision of Information Technology support
for central and local governments. Within the context of the new FMS, it is necessary to identify an
appropriate role for the Uganda Computer Services (UCS) - which is currently largely a centralized data
processing department - and to provide it with the support necessary to transform its capabilities. An
interim strategy will be developed and implemented for the Uganda Computer Services in order to ensure
that it is ready to support the FMS implementation program. Subsequently, a medium-term business plan
will also be developed in conjunction with or as part of the FMS implementation program;
3.    Strengthened capacity for local governments to maintain and improve financial management
systems. The Local Government Act empowers Local Governments to formulate, approve and execute the
budgets and plans. The same law requires every local government to keep proper books of accounts and to
produce financial statements to that effect. However, there is acute lack of technical capacity (technical and
equipment) to do so at the local governments. Similar to activity 1, a needs assessment will be conducted
and a program designed and implemented for capacity strengthening. Further, review, revision and
dissemination of accounting manuals and guidelines for collecting, recording and reporting expenditures
and non-tax revenue from the centre and from local/own sources will be developed. This sub component
will finance professional training for local government accounting staff. It will also finance the purchase of
equipment (including computers) and vehicles;
- 27 -



4.    Enhanced capacity and effectiveness of external audit furnction. The OAG is mandated by the
Constitution to audit all public accounts of Uganda including that of ministries, local authorities, parastatal
companies and government projects. The Auditor General is required to carry out value for money audits
and report the results to Parliament. Similar to activity 1, a needs assessment will be conducted and a
program designed and implemented for capacity strengthening. Further, review, revision and dissemination
of manuals and guidelines for carrying out value for money and financial audits will be developed. The
project will finance training, purchase of equipment and vehicles and consultancy services necessary to
support the Auditor General; and
5.    Introduction of improvedfinancial management systems at central and local governments.
Government has recognised the poor state of operational fiscal systems as an impediment to the reform in
public expenditure management. It therefore is undertaking a review of fiscal processes to identify the
impediments and incorporate the use of information technology in all reforms relating to these processes.
The sub component will utilize the findings of the Fiscal Management Systems (FMS) study which will
define the framework for infomation technology management, a suitable classification system to cover both
financial and non-financial operations and lay the foundation for the implementation of expenditure
management systems covering budgeting, accounting and other closely related processes under central and
local governments. The FMS study recommendations will be reviewed and agreed to by all stakeholders.
Subsequently, implementation will commence including through: (a) dissemination of the new chart of
accounts/classification systems; (b) procurement and installation of information systems in pilot
ministries/local governments; (c) continuing support to the Government in supervising installation of
information systems; and (d) training to staff in use and maintenance of the system. The sub component
would finance the acquisition of computer systems (software and hardware) to implement the FMS,
consultancy support and training for systems staff and end users.
Project Component 3 - US$ 8.38 million
Statistics component. The Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS) was created in 1998 as a
semi-autonomous body to serve as the focal point for the provision of reliable statistical information needed
for policy formulation and planning and to act as the coordinating, monitoring and supervising agency of
the national statistical system. The component will support the building of capacity to monitor
development performance, Government service delivery and the impact of public expenditure on poverty
trends. Activities included:
I.    Improved capacity of the Uganda Bureau of Statistics as an organization. The objective is to
enable the UBOS to become the focal point around which a national capacity for the collection, processing,
storage and dissemination of statistical information for the purpose of monitoring and evaluating outcomes
and outputs of development policies and programs both at the national and district levels could be built.
The key activities to be implemented include: (a) finalization and approval of the UBOS business plan by
the Board of Directors; (b) preparation and approval of the human resource development strategy; (c)
implementation of staff development plans: (d) design and implementation of financial management
systems; (e) design and implementation of personnel and payroll systems; (f) design of a national statistical
framework defining links and interfaces between UBOS and major statistics producers and users. The
project would finance most of the bureau's medium term capital investment and some incremental
operational expenses.
2.    Implementation of the National Service Delivery Survey and development of capacity within
UBOS to implement such surveys. The NSDS is being conducted for the first time under the auspices of
- 28 -



the Ministry of Public Service which has hired consultants for this purpose utilizing grant financing from
the Government of Norway. The objective under this project is to utilize the methodology, findings and
implementation experience of this first round of surveys to develop the approach for future rounds and to
progressively internalize the capacity for the surveys so that by the end of the project, the surveys are
conducted with the UBOS managing the process;
3.     Strengthening of household survey capacities within UBOS. The household survey is an activity
being managed and implemented by the predecessor entity of UBOS (the Statistics Department) for several
years now. The objective is to improve the timeliness with which survey data is disseminated for further
analysis and use by the public including various organizations which are key users in the public and private
sectors.
4.    Improved dissemination of key statistical information. There is considerable information collected
in the context of the various surveys including surveys discussed above but extending to other economic
statistics (GDP, CPI, etc) as well as for other key surveys which have not occured recently (Census of
Business Establishments, Labor Survey, Agricultural Survey etc). After agreeing to the program with its
Board, key users and donors, the UBOS would ensure a program of data collection and timely
dissemination.
Project Component 4 - US$3.40 million
Global Distance Learning. Activities will include:
1.    Construction of Distance Learning Center facilities consisting of a videoconference room with a
30-person capacity and a computer room outfitted for 30 computer stations with Internet access and the
acquisition of equipment including a Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) satellite communication
terminal, video, telecommunications and microprocessor equipment, office and classroom furniture and
other required equipment; and
(2)   Assistance to the establishment and operations of the Distance Learning Center aimed at assisting
(and testing the feasibility of achieving) financial viability. This will include financing of DLC operation
costs, purchase of a vehicle to facilitate transport and marketing of DLC services, technical assistance for
the training of Center staff, periodic evaluation of Center operation and management effectiveness and
establishment of financial accounts and their annual audit.
- 29 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UGANDA: Second Economic and Financial Management Project
Planning and Budgeting                                    2.62          6.43         9.05
Financial Management                                      2.62         14.97        17.59
Statistics Capacity Building                              3.25          4.23         7.48
Global Distance Leaming                                   1.50          1.52         3.02
PPF Refinancing                                           0.09          1.31         1.40
Total Baseline Cost                                      10.08         28.46        38.54
Physical Contingencies                                   0.38          1.09         1.47
Price Contingencies                                      0.94          1.36         2.30
Total Project Costs             11.40        30.91         42.31
Total Financing Required              11.40        30.91        42.31
Goods                                                       0.72         10.24         10.96
Works                                                       1.00          0.98          1.98
Services                                                    0.42         15.91         16.33
Training                                                    4.08          2.78          6.86
Incremental Staff Expenses                                  2.88          0.00         2.88
Incremental Non-Staff Expenses                              2.30          1.00          3.30
Total Project Costs    11.40         30.91         42.31
Total Financing Required     11.40         30.91        42.31
- 30 -



Annex 4
UGANDA: Second Economic and Financial Management Project
COST BENEFIT/COST EFFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS NOT APPLICABLE
- 31 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
UGANDA: Second Economic and Financial Management Project
Years Ending
June 30
Year I    Year 2  | Year3  | Year 4       Year 5  | Year 6      Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           3.0       11.5       12.8        6.6        2.2        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.2        1.1        2.4       2.0        0.5        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          3.2       12.6       15.2        8.6        2.7        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              3.2       12.6       15.2        8.6        2.7        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDAIDA                   2.7       10.3       12.1       6.7        2.2       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.2        0.8        1.5        1.3       0.3       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.3        1.5        1.6        0.6       0.2       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      3.2      12.6       15.2        8.6        2.7       0.0       20.0
| Year I    Year 2  | Year 3      Year 4     Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Financing plan for operational period is not applicable.
- 32 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UGANDA: Second Economic and Financial Management Project
Procurement
General
1.     All goods, works and services will be procured in accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September
1997 and January 1999; and Guidelines: Use of consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World bank as
Executing Agency, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. Bank's standard bidding documents
for goods, works and services will be used. For details on project costs by procurement arrangements refer to Table
A.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                           1.28          0.70           0.0           0.0            1.98
(1.21)        (0.67)         (0.0)         (0.0)         (1.88)
2. Vehicles                        1.98          0.22           0.0           0.0           2.20
(1.88)        (0.21)         (0. )        _(0C. -0)      (2.09)
3. Goods and Equipment             4.76          1.59          0.98           1.42          8.75
(4.53)        (1.51)        (0.94)         (0.0)         (6.98)
4. Consultancy Services            0.0            0.0          14.06          0.92          14.98
(0.0)         (0.0)        (13.26)        (0.0)         (13.26)
5. Training                                                    6.76           1.46          8.22
(6.23)                       (6.23)
6. Recurrent Costs                                             6.18                         6.18
(3.60)                       (3.60)
Total                             8.02          2.51          27.98          3.80          42.31
(7.62)        (2.39)        (24.03)        (0.0)        (34.04)
2.     Procurement Capacity. A procurement capacity assessment was carried out by IDA staff in
August 1999. The key findings of this study are described below. There is a small project co-ordination
office reporting to the Director, Budget (as the Government's task manager for EFMP II). This office
which is headed by the Project Co-ordinator is taking the lead in supporting the component managers (the
Director, Budget; the Director, Accounts; and the Executive Director, UBOS) during preparation. It is
expected to take the lead in implementing project-wide procurement activities and will also provide
procurement support for activities limited to specific components. Hence, the office will be involved with:
(i) consolidating the procurement plans of the implementing agencies into the project procurement plan, (ii)
monitoring the procurement and (iii) assisting the implementing agencies with (a) the preparation of bidding
documents and advertisements for goods and works contracts and requests for proposals for consulting
assignments; and (b) bid opening and evaluation. The assessment indicated that given its mandate the
- 33 -



office had very limited capacity in procurement. Consequently, Terms of Reference for a procurement
specialist were proposed by the Government on an urgent basis with IDA and the Government is currently
in the process of acquiring a full-time procurement expert who is expected to be on board shortly and at the
latest by project effectiveness.
3.    Advertising. A draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared for the project and
published in the UN Development Business (UNDB) after Board approval. It will indicate all the
procurement contracts (> US$ 100,000) where the ICB method of procurement would be used. The GPN
will be updated annually. All consultancy assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or
more will be advertised in an international newspaper and in the UNDB. In addition, expressions of interest
may also be sought from prospective consultants by advertising in a national newspaper or technical
magazine. In the case of assignments estimated at US$ 100,000 or less the assignment may be advertised
nationally and the shortlist may be made up entirely of national consultants provided that at least three
qualified national firms are available in the country and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not
exluded from consideration.
4.    Procurement Plan. An Overall Procurement Plan (OPP) will be agreed at negotiations. A Detailed
Procurement Plan (DPP) for the first and each subsequent year of the project, showing the procurement
method and processing time for each contract, will be submitted to IDA for its review and comments.
5.    Civil Works. For civil works under Part C of the project, the Govenmment will contribute the land
on which the construction will occur and the civil works will be undertaken in line with ICB procedures.
For civil works under Part D of the project, NCB procedures will be utilized on an exceptional basis.
6.    Goods and Equipment: To the extent possible, contracts for goods, such as vehicles, equipment
(office, laboratory and field), computers, and fumiture shall be grouped into packages estimated to cost
US$100,000 equivalent or more and will be procured by intemational competitive bidding (ICB). Domestic
preference will be applicable. Contracts estimated to cost between US$30,000 and US$100,000, up to an
aggregate amount of US$1,850,000, will be procured through NCB.
7.    For Parts A, B and C of the project, goods, equipment and operations and maintenance items
estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
US$3,300,000 equivalent will be procured through shopping procedures by soliciting at least three
quotations from different suppliers. National shopping for regular operation and maintenance or
miscellaneous items will follow IDA guidelines. For Part D of the project, goods, equipment and
operations and maintenance items estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of USS$ 1,000,000 will be procured through national shopping procedures by soliciting
at least three quotations from different suppliers.
8.    Other Procurement Method: On behalf of the Borrower, the Bank (ISG Department) will procure
network access equipment for the video conference room and computers and computer-related
communications equipment on a direct contracting basis to ensure compatibility with the Global Distance
Leaming Network and to benefit from a bulk discount from the Bank suppliers. The satellite bandwidth
rental contract will be procured on a direct contracting basis (one supplier selected under the Bank
umbrella). To this end, a Procurement Agreement has been signed between the Borrower, the Ugandan
Management Institute and the International Development Association.
9.     As a rule, consultant services would be procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS) methodology. All consulting service contracts costing more than US$100,000 equivalent for firms
- 34 -



will be awarded using the QCBS method. Consulting service contracts estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 for firms will be awarded through the Consultants' Qualifications selection method. Services
of individual consultants will be procured under individual contracts in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines.
10.   The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals - Selection of Consultants containing the standard
Letter of Invitation, Information to Consultants, and Standard Form of contract will be used for hiring
consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments and for contracts of local
consultants implementing the project.
11.   Review by IDA. Table B provides the prior review thresholds. Each goods contracts estimated to
cost US$100,000 equivalent or more will be subject to IDA prior review as per Appendix I of the
Guidelines. Other contracts will be subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 of Appendix I of
the Guidelines. All sole source selection of consultants, all terms of reference, all consulting contracts
exceeding US$50,000 for individuals and US$100,000 for firms, and all overseas training will be subject
to IDA prior review. Any exceptional extensions to NCB contracts for goods and equipment raising the
contract value to US$100,000 or above will be subject to prior review. Extensions to consulting contracts
for firms and individuals not originally subject to prior review will be subject to prior review when such
extensions will raise the contract values above US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
F~~~~~
Civil Works             Parts A, B and C
100 or more             ICB                   All
<100                  NA                   NA
Part D                NCB                   All
<700
Vehicles, Goods and      Parts A, B and C
Equipment                  100 or more             ICB                   All
>30 -100               NCB                   All
<30            Shopping (IS/NS)           None
Part D
<50              Shopping (NS)            None
- 35 -



Consultancy Services
Firms                      200 or more       QCBS (international         All
advert)
>100 - 200       QCBS(international           All
shortlist)
100 and less             CQ                  TORs
Individuals                50 and more           Individual              All
<50                individual             None
Training                                                                 All
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
CQ - Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
QCBS - Quality and Cost Based Selection
NCB - National Competitive Bidding
IS - International Shopping
NS - National Shopping
Note: All sole source assignments would be subject to prior review
All TORs for consulting assignments would be subject to prior review.
- 36 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
- Disbursement Cate oi         : Amount DI R Million}    --ancing P---erge --
1. Civil Works
a. Part C of the Project                    0.78                         95%
b. Part D of the Project                    0.45                         95%
2. Goods, Vehicles and Equipment
a. Part A of the Project                    1.37                         95%
b. Part B of the Project                    1.84                         95%
c. Part C of the Project                    0.61                         95%
d. Part D of the Project                    0.52                         95%
3. Consultants 'Services and Training
a. Part A of the Project
b. Part B of the Project                    3.47                         95%
c. Part C of the Project                   10.49                         95%
d. Part D of the Project                    0.68                         95%
0.16                        95%
4. Incremental Operating Costs
a. Part A of the Project
b. Part B of the Project
c. Part C of the Project                    0.33                         55%
d. Part D of the Project                 -  0.26                         55%
1.11                        55%
0.72         80% up to December 31,2000; 65% upto
December 31, 2001; and 40% thereafter
5. PPFRefinancing
Per Section 2.02(c)
6. Unallocated                              1.02
0.89
Total                       24.70
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The threshold for SOEs would be set at US$100,000 for works, goods and consultancy contracts for firms
and at US$50,000 for consultancy contracts for individuals.
Special account:
The project will have three Special Accounts - Special Account A will be utilized for components managed
by the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (Planning and Budgeting and Financial
Management Components), Special Account B will be utilized for the component managed by the Uganda
Bureau of Statistics (the Statistics Component) and Special Account C will be utilized for the component
- 37 -



managed by the Uganda Management Institute. The authorized allocation for Special Account A will be
set at US$1.6 million, the authorized allocation for Special Account B will be set at US$0.8 million and the
authorized allocation for Special Account C will be set at US$0.2 million.
- 38 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UGANDA: Second Economic and Financial Management Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  16                       36
First Bank mission (identification)      10/28/96                    10/28/96
Appraisal mission departure              07/01/97                    07/06/99
Negotiations                             10/01/97                    10/05/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            03/01/98                    01/01/2000
Prepared by:
Government of Uganda EFMP II Project Preparation Task Force consisting of the following members:
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
Mrs. M.C. Muduuli                 Director Budget
Mr. J. Muwanga                    Ag. Director/Accounts
Mr. R. Muwanga                    Coordinator EFMP II
Mr. Keith Muhakanizi              Commissioner/Economic Policy Research Department
Ms. F. Kuteesa                    Commissioner/Budget Policy Evaluation Departmnent
Mr. G.O.L. Bwoch                  Commnissioner/Treasury Officer of Accounts
Mrs, H. Anokbonggo                Commissioner/Uganda Computer Services
Mr. D. T. Kisembo                 Commissioner/Internal Audit
Mr. G. Kakama                     Ag. Principal Finance Officer
Mr. L. Banyoya                    Ag. Principal Finance Officer
Mr. J. Wokadala                   Ag. Assistant Commissioner/Public Administration Department
Mr. Moses Yolyanaye               Analyst/Programmer/Uganda Computer Services
Mr. E. Mwesigye                   Advisor/Directorate of Accounts
Mr. Rudman                        Technical Advisor/Budget
Ministry of Local Government
Mr. E. Mugabi                     Director, Decentralization Secretariat
Mr. T. Nkayarwa                   Director, Local Government Inspection
Mr. F.X.K. Wagaba                 Chief of Division, Institutional Development
Mr. S.W. Kisembo                  Chief of Division, Financial Management
Mr. S. Katunguka                  Chief Information Systems Officer
Mr. S. Kateregga                  Financial Analyst
Ministry of Public Service
Mrs. P. Ssezi                     Director/Human Resources
Mrs. G. Ssendyona                 Assistance Commissioner
Mr. J. Ashton                     Senior Advisor
Office of the Auditor General
Mr. A. Mayanja                    Director, Audit Department
Uganda Bureau of Statistics
Mr. J. Mubiru                     Ag. Executive Director
Mr. J. Muwonge                    Statistician
Uganda Management Institute
Mr. J. Kalebbo                    Director, UMI
- 39 -



Preparation assistance:
PPF Q-019-0 and PPF Q-019-1
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Gaiv Tata                         Team Leader
Fitz Ford                         Planning and Budgeting
Joseph Kizito                     Financial Management Specialist and financial management
Uche Mbanefo                      Financial Management
Nelson Ofwono                     Statistics and backup team leader
Tim Marchant                      Statistics
Deepak Bhatia                    Information Systems
Rogati Kayani                     Procurement
Reggie Miller                     Information Systems
Donnette Patterson                Task Team Assistant
Joseph Ingram                     Program manager, Global Distance Learning
Mehdi Roustayi                    Network Information Technology Specialist, Global Distance Learning
Axel Baurnler                     Financial Analyst, Global Distance Learning
Michael Foley                     Distance Learning Specialist
Harriet Nannyonjo                 Global Distance Learning Component Manager
Victorio Labite Ocaya             Civil Engineer, Global Distance Learning
Paud Murphy                       Senior Education Specialist, Global Distance Learning
- 40 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
UGANDA: Second Economic and Financial Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Version 3 dated September 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Identification Mission Aide Memoire, October 1996
Information Systems Preparation Mission Aide Memoire, April 1997
Preparation Mission Aide Memoire, June 1997
Preparation Mission Aide Memoire, March 1998
Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, July 1999
Procurement Capacity Assessment, August 1999
Financial Management Capacity Assessment, October 1999
C. Other
District Planning Capacity Assessment, May 1997
Uganda Bureau of Statistics Corporate Business Plan (Draft), June 1999
Fiscal Management Study - RFP Package, April 1999
Minutes of EFMP II Project Preparation Team Meetings (various)
Report of EFMP II Stakeholders Workshop, November 1997
Republic of Uganda: Capacity Building Plan, 1994
Uganda National Capacity Assessment, 1997
Report, Policy and Plan for the Development of Human Resources in the Public Service of Uganda, 1998
Institutional Capacity Building Project, Training Fund Component, Implementation Guidelines, 1997
Global Distance learning Electronic Files.
*Including electronic files
- 41 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UGANDA: Second Economic and Financial Management Project
Difference betvween expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                IBRD          IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 55
UG-PE-2941      1999 GOVT. OF UGANDA              ICB-PAMSU                                0 00       12 37        0.00        9.80      1 97      0.00
UG-PE-2970      199  GOVERNMENT                   ROADS DEVT PROGRAM                       0.00       90.98        0.00       89.93      0 00      000
UG-PE-44213     1999 GOVERNMENTOFUGANDA           FINMKTSASSISTANCE                        0.00       13.00        0.00       12.85      0.00      0.00
UG-PE-59127     1999 GOVERNMENTOF UGANDA          AGRIC.RES&TRNG. II                       0.00       26.00        0.00       25.56      0.00      000
UG-PE-59223    1999 GOV                           NAKIVUEO CHANNEL REH                     0.00       22.38        0.00       22.08      0.00       0.00
UG-PE-2972      1998 GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA         EDUC SECTOR ADJ CRED                     0.00       80.00        0.00       34.66     -4.80       0.00
UG-PE-40551     1998 REPUBLICOF UGANDA            NUTRIT.CHILDDEV                          0.00       34.00        0.00       32.07      1.55      0.00
UG-PE49543      1998 GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA         ROAD SECT/INST.SUPP                      0.00       30.00        0.00       26.98     16.70      0.00
UG-PE-57007     1998 GOVT. OF UGANDA              ELNINO EMERG RD REP                      0.00       27.60        0.00       24.66     11.76      0.00
UG-PE-2987      1997 GOVr. OF UGANDA              SAC Ill                                  0.00      125.00        0 00       78.00     81.17      0.00
UG-PE-46836     1997 GOVERNMENT                   LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                       0.00       12.10        0.00        8.42      1.92      0.00
UG-PE-2978      1996 GOU                          ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMT                     0.00       11.80        000         5.55      4.54      0.00
UG-PE-35634     1996 GOVERNMENT                   PRIV. SECTOR COMPETI                     0.00       12.30        0.00        7.34      4.52      0.00
UG-PE-2971      1995 GOVERNMENT                   DISTRICT HEALTH                          0.00       45.00        0.00       20.78      4.89      0.00
UG-PE-2976      1995 GOVT                         INST. CAPACITY BLDG                      0.00       36.40        0.00       13.60     10.53      0.00
UG-PE-2923      1994 GOVERNMENT                   TRANSP. REHAB.                           0.00       75.00        0.00       33 00     31.49      0.00
UG-PE-2957      1994 GOVERNMENT                   SMALL TOWNS WATER                        0.00       42.30        0.00       21 87     15 92      0.00
UG-PE-2963      1994 GOU                          SEXUAL.TRANS.IN                          0.00       50.00        0.00       19.55     14.03      0.00
UG-PE-2977      1994 GOVERNMENT                   COTTON SECTOR DEVELO                     0.00       14.00        0.00        3.43      2.71      1.53
UG-PE-2938      1993 GOVERNMENT                   AGRIC. RES&TRG.                          0.00       25.04        0.00        2.59      0.69      0.00
UG.PE-2953      1993 GOVERNMENT                   PRIMARY EDUC. &TEAC                      0.00       52.60        0.00       20.63      961        0.00
UG-PE-2968      1992 GOVERNMENT                   ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT                   0.00       65.60       23.75        1.78     23.33      -2.52
UG-PE-2S2S      1991                              POWER Ill                                0.00      125.00        0.00       1832      22.36     21.52
Total:       0.00    1,028.47       23.75      533 45    254.89     20.53
Active         Closed
Projects       Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRO and IDA):         478.17        1,771.11        2,249.28
of which hasbeen repaid:           0.00         300.15          300.15
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    1,033.42           1,385.38        2,418.80
Amount sold:          0.00           25.82           25.82
of which repaid:         0.00          25.82           25.82
Total Undisbursed:        533.45            0.51         533.96
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
- 42 -



UGANDA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul- 1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1983               Uganda Sugar                   6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1984/92           DFCU                            0.00    0.00    0.98    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.98    0.00
1992              AEF Clovergem                   0.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.84    0.00      0.00    0.00
1993              AEF NileRoses                   0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.00      0.00    0.00
1993              AEF Rwenzori                    0.46    0.00    0.19    0.00    0.46    0.00      0.19    0.00
1993              Jubilee                         0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00
1994              AEF Polypack                    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994              AEF Skyblue                     0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Celtel                         2.15    0.80    0.64    0.00    2.15    0.80    0.64    0.00
1995              AEF Rainbow                     0.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.79    0.00      0.00    0.00
1995/96           Uganda Leasing                  1.54    0.00    0.33    0.00    0.94    0.00    0.33    0.00
1996              AEF Agro Mgmnt                  0.60    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.55    0.00    0.40    0.00
1996              Kasese Cobalt                  16.00    0.00    3.60    0.00   16.00    0.00      3.60    0.00
1997              AEFConradPlaza                  1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              AEF Kiwa Indust                 0.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              AEF Metro Hotel                 0.42    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              AEF Exec. Invmnt                1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              AEF Kampala Flwr                0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998              AEF Mosa Court                  0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998              AEF Skay Electro                0.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              AEF White Nile                  0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998              Tilda Rice                      2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.90    0.00      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        36.62    0.80    6.24    0.00   34.33    0.80      6.24    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Conmmitment:      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
- 43 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UGANDA: Second Economic and Financial Management Project
Sub-                                                     9122/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Saharan       Low-
Uaanda      Africa   income        Development dlamond
1998
PoDulation mid-vear (millions)                            20 9        628      3 515                   Life expectancy
S,NP nercanita (Atlas method USSI                          327        460        590
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                           6.7        304      1 844
Averaue annual arowth. 1992-98
Ponulation (%)                                             3 0         2 6       1 7
Labor force (%)                                            2 7         2 6        1 9     GNP                                 Gross
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1992-981                                     per                                primary
Povertv (% of ooOulation below national covertv line)       46                            cpt
Urban DoDulation (% of total oooulation)                    13         33         31
I ife ayopntannv at birth fvears)                           47         $1        68
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live births)                    99         91         69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                  26                                       Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of DoDulation)                      41         47         74
Illiteracv (% of ooDulation ace 15+)                                   42         32
Gross orimarv enrollment (% ofschool-aoe oooulation)        91         77        108                   Uganda
Male                                                      99         84        113                   Low-income group
Fenr-le                                                   83         6P9       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997       1998
Economic ratlos,
GDP fUS$ billions)                                         6.3         63        6 8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                              9 7        16 0      15 1
ExDorts of ooods and services/GDP                          82         13 1      10 3                       Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                                 -0 1        7 9       57T
Gross national savinoslGDP                                 08         12.7      13 2                          T
Current account balance/GDP                                -2 2       -8.3     -10 2      D     s
Interest cavments/GOP                                                  0.6       06                                      investment
Total debt/GDP                                            20 6       58 1       53.6      Savings
Total debt service/excorts                                            19 4      25 4
Prpsent vailue of rebhtlffnP                                         37 7
Present value of debt/exoorts                                .      238 5
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998   1999-03
(averace annual arowth)
rlp                                               8 69     47          5 fi      7 0                     Uganda
GNP aer caoita                                    38       2 4         27                            -Low-income group
Exoorts of ooods and services                    13 0     29 5       -14 9      126
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                                45
Annnult.lir                                               Sfi 8       47 n      44 8 
Industrv                                                  10 1        17 6      17.6      3D
Manufacturina                                             59         86         89       te
Services                                                  33 2       40 5       37.8 o
Private consumotion                                       92 1       81 8       84 7      15 1    93   S4   as   9n   97   se
General oovernment consumotion                             80         10 4       96 8GDI                            O-GDP
Imoorts of coods and services                             180        21 2       19 7
1977-87  1988-98       1997       1998       Growth rates of exports and Imports f%)
faveraae annual orowthl
Aoriculture                                                3 8         1 1        1 9     60 s
Indimstrv                                                 11  114               11        D
Manufacturina                                            12 8       13 4       14 4
Services                                                    80         57        8 6      20
Privatp nnnsirmntion                                       6 3         1 6       72 7
General oovernment consumotion                              7 2        7 0        80              93 94   9s    st   S7
Gross domestic investment                                   75        -2 6      10 5     -20
ImDorts of coods and services                              76          20        3 1                     Exports    -0 mnports
Gross nationai oroduct                                      7 1        5 4       57
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds showfour kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-orout averane If data are missino the diamond will
he inrn,mlata
- 44 -



U-anda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987        1997      1998       Inflation I%)
Domestic priecsInltot%
(% change)                                                                                 so
Consumer prices                                           216 5         7.8       5.8      40
Implicit GDP deflator                                     181.0         3.9      10.7      30 
20
Government finance                                                                         10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                         o -
Current revenue                                              4.7       11.0      10.2              93    94    95    96    97    90
Current budget balance                                      -0.9        1.0       0.8                      GDP deflator  - C  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                     -4.2       -6.2      -5.7
TRADE
(USs millions)                                   1977      1987       1997       199J       Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                         384        671        466      le,600 
Coffee                                                    365         366       268
Cotton                                                                 26        15      i 200 -
Manufactures                                                                                  I_
Total imports (cif)                                         51i       1,246     1,393       BD0                     *
Food40
Fuel and energy                                            63          92        84
Capital goods                                     ..
Exoort nrice index (1995=100)
Imaort orice index 11995=100)                                                        .                Exports       *Imports
Tprmr  nf trande /1995=1001
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                                   1977      1987       1997       1999       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                               406        825        641 o
Imports of goods and services                               600       1,651     1,844
Resource balance                                           -194        -826    -1,203       *4
Net income                                          -        4          1          1
Net current transfers                                       10         32         51        -
Current account balance                             -3     -141        -521      -692      12
Financing items (net)                               4       119        653        826
Changes in net reserves                             -1       22        -132      -134       1
Memo:
Reserves includino cold fUSS miilions)                       53        622        750
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS3                     ..     19.8    1,058.0   1,150.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987        1997      1998
(IUSS millions)                                                                             Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                      1,306       3,660     3,631
IBRD                                                        0          0          0                       Fe 56
IDA                                              ..         0       1,916     1,997E:4
Total debt service                                            ..       168        174
IBRD                                              ..        0          0          0
IDA                                               ..        0         21         24
Composition of net resource flows                                                              0: 445                          B: 1,997
Official grants                                   .
Official creditors
Private creditors
Foreign direct investment           'I
Portfolio equity                                  .C:3B
World Bank program
Commitments                                                 0        137        247      A IBRD                          E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                               0        166        242      B -IDA     D-Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                        0          8         10        - ItAF                        r -
Net flows                                                   0        158        231
Interest payments                                           0         13         14
Net transfers                                               0        144        217
Development Economics                                                                                                           9122/99
- 45 -






Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy
UGANDA: Second Economic and Financial Management Project
Toig  ones                                                                     Ministry of Fnanci,
*Aj&.. Kampala 243504 & 232370                                              Pln 9946 Uil
;*pbf Kampala 234700/§ (0 olines)                                          Planning &  QcOm1c
.::Fix    'Kampala 34A1397                                                      Development.
ViiiIx   :61170                                                                P.O. Bo*S147,
finiall    :in iaisLisam                        )                              Kampala.
In any coepondencaon ED/C/1s54/6/9/l/lll                                       Uganda.
thlg eubjeet pleas, quote No.  _THE REPU LP UOANDA
: October 28,1999
.YMr. Jan§is Adams                                                     u               ENT
Country Olrector, Uganda
; Eaitern Africa Department
ThQ World Bank
1818 H,alreQt N.W
WMOshingtot. f. C. 20433
Dear Mr. Adams
Letter of Sector Policy on Fiscal Devolutlon. Control and Manaoement of Public ExDenditure
1.     I am writing on behalf of the Govemment of the Republic of Uganda to indicate our policy on
devolution of development funds to locul govemments and on our strategy for improving fiscal control and
the tmanagement of public expendituret. This letter also describes the actions that Govemment will
undertake to implement these measures through the proposed Second Economic and Financlal
Management Project (EFMPII) and the Local Govemment Development Programme (LGDP).
Background
2.     Since May 1987, Uganda has *mplemented both macro-economic reforms that have focused on
restorlng and maintaining macro-econcmic stability and undertaken structural reforms aimed at Improving
the country's economic, social and instilt.tional Infrastructure. Together with IDA and other key development
partners, the Government has implemerted several key structural reforms wlth considerable synergy i.e.
constitutional reform, civil service reforn,, public enterprise reform and private sector development and the
decentrallsation of govemment.
3.     In October 1992, the President of Uganda launched an ambitious Decenlralisation Programme as
part of a long-term goveMment policy to enhance political and social harnony. Since then, Decentralisatlon
has become tle cornerstone of the Government's efforts to promote good govemance, broad based and
rapid -economic growth and Improved oelivery of services which are all key planks of the Govemments
poverty eradicatlon programme.
4.     The results of these reforms have been impressive. In macro-economic terms, since 1997 the
Gross Pomesric Product has expanded at annual rate of over 6.5% and inflation has been reduced sharply
from double digits in 1987 to single digits in the last six years. Domestic Govemment revenue have
Increased from the equivalent of 6% of GDP in 1986/87 to 12% of GDP In 1998/99 and, while maintaining
macroeconomic stability, the Government has increased its expenditures from the equivalent of 8.6% of
GOP in 1986187 to 18.6% in 1998199. The Govemment has also realised reductions on subsidies to public
enterprlses and has since 1987 taken steps to refocus public expenditure on sectors which have a direct
bearing on Govemment's long-term objective of eradicating mass poverty by 2017.
5.     As part of the programme, the Government has completed political and administrative
decentralisatlon and a phased devolution of recurrent financing for most government servlces to all the 45
districts, and elected local councils now exercise control over a selected range of revenues raised In their
46



JurNedIcttons. The govemment Is also Iniplementing the Uganda Participatory Poverty AssesmesientPoject
(UPPAP) which seeks to bring the voice of the poor into national policy formulation and district planning
process In order to bridge the gap between public policy and practical action to help the poor. UPPAP Is
desIgned to supplement the quantitative macroeconomic monitoring of poverty indicators with community
partlcipotory appraisal techniques which allow the poor people themselves to discuss and analyse the
causes, dimensions and consequences of poverty, and to evolve local action plans to fight poverty.
6.     With regard to improvements attributable to the decentralisation programme, data available
Indicates that there has been an increase in resources and benefits to the population and a decline in the
proportion of the population whose Income was inadequate to meet the basic necessities of life (food,
shelter and clothing) from 56% in 1992 to 44% in 1997. Vardous studies also point to Improved local
decision making, greater accountability, Improved local administrative and planning capacitles, and an
encouragingly wide range of local initiatives in the use of public resources.
7.     The Govemment however recognises that longer-term fiscal sustalnability will depend on improved
revenues both for central Govemment and local govemments, Improved public expenditure management at
all levels, and the sustained effort to eradicate poverty. While the Government has been successful In
restoring control over macro-economic aggregates and has achieved some Improvements in service
delivery, the underlying fiscal systems and structures have remained inedequate in many respects and
need to be urgently addressed.
8.     The Government also recognises that substantial gaps remain with respect to fiscal devolution.
Until 199912000, fiscal devolutlon has been limited to recurrent budget expenditures while the control and
managament of development funds has remained the responsibility of central govemment. This Inability to
complete fiscal decentralisation has hampered the full realisation of the objective of decentrallsation.
9.     The Government intends to fully decentralise the development budget as the next step In the
process of fiscal devolution. The Govemment will also focus on building capacities at the centre and within
local governments, including provision of facilities and equipment, establishing and refining procedures and
systems of fiscal and administrative control, and stakeholder training in order to build the capacity for sound
management at the local government level.
10.    To a limited extent, aspects of decentralisation of the development budget have been Implemented
In selected -districts as multi-sectoral district development programmes through direct donor involvement.
Some of the districts that have benefited through these schemes Include Rakai, Hoima, Kibaale, Kisoro,
Soroti and Arua. Decentralised single sectoral development initiatives have included District Health Services
Programme and decentralised classroom construction for primary schools,
11.    As part of efforts to refine procedures for decentralised financing and planning for services
delivery, Govemment has been piloting Local Development Funds in Mukono, Arua, Kabaie, Kotido and.
Jinja and is about to extend this to other district/municipal Local Govemments. The pilot phase has given
the Govemment the opportunity to understand the fiscal and financial bottlenecks which lie ahead in further
liscal devolution. In the section below, I outline the guiding principles of the policy framework In which the
full decentralisation of development resources and fiscal control and management of public expenditure will
occur. I 1lso give details about the expected contribution of the EFMP 11 and Interim LGDP to the reaUlsatlon
- 47 -



of this p6flcy framework.
Overill Pblicy
Govermhen.t's Fiscal Policy
12.    The Govemmenfs fiscal policy continues to be determined by three main objectives -namely:
maintaining macroeconomic stability essentially by restraining public expenditures to available resources;
redirecting reso0urces from lower prority areas towards programs with the highest potential for poverty
reduction; and reducing dependence on external resources by raising the revenue base in a sustainable
manner without resorting to distortionary taxes.
Deontralmslaton Principles and Objectives
13.    As part of Govemment's strategy to Improve service delivery, the Govemment. In 1993, agreed to
Implement a Decentratisation Programme whose broad objective is to promote and protect good
govemande and democratic participation for all citizens of Uganda. The Constitution and the Local
Govemrnments Act (1997) provide the framework for decentralisation. The framework underscores principles
for democratic decentralisation and devolution of government functions and powers to the people at
appropriate levels where they can best manage and direct their affairs. This framework further details the
struclures for the local government system and lays down several principles goveming the co-ordinated
devolution and transfer of functions, powers and responsibilities to local governments.
haidng Responsibillties
14.    The DecentralisaUon frarneworle also defines the sharing of functions and services between the
central Government and local govemments. The Constitution requires the central Govemment to retain
responsibility for national policy formula-ion, standards, inspection and other services that are best executed
'at national level. The local governments through their councils take responsibility for servJce delivery to
communities within their jurisdiction. Since 1997, several Government ministries and depatments have
been restructured, under the Public Ser/ice Reform Programme (PSR2002), to harmonise their functions
and structures with requirements under thie decentralisation policy.
"FlsBal'Decentrslisatlon- 
16.    The Constituton provides for the devolution of financial powers to match the decentreilsatlon of
responsibility to local govemments. The promulgation of the Conslitution anid the enactment of the Local
Govemments Act (1997) have greatly strengthened Govemment's policy commitment to the implemintition
of fiscal dscentralisation. Several institutions and bodies outlined In the law, such as Local Government
-Finance Commission (LGFC), the District Tender Boards, the Local Govemments Public Accounts
Comrnittees and Internal Audit units at the districts have been established.
- 48 -



16.    While signiflicant steps have been taken In the Implementation of the govemment policy of fiscal
devooluton, substantlal gaps still remain as outlined below:
17,.    Gaps In relation to general fiscal management:
*      The inadequacy of the underlying process and systems for fiscal management are a maJor
hlndrance to greater improvements in service delivery and Government's goal of reducing povery.
While the approprlate institutions are in place, the Govemment needs to strengthen these
Institutions to ensure effectiveness and efficiency of financial management.;
-       3Budget indiscipline Is still a significant problem leading to loss/mIsappropriation of resources and
undermines the Government's macro-economic reforms.; and
- -    In order to have an understanding of the Impact of Govemment's expenditure on servIce delivery
and poverty reduction, there is need to strengthen the mechanisms and capacities for monitoring
and evaluation through the collection and analysis of appropriate statistics. These mechanisms are
weak making it difficult to estimate the value of public expenditure and to evaluate the
achievements of govemment's programs.
18.  .Gaps In relation to fiscal decentralisation:
- -   iDistrict budgets have been difficult to execute, given unrealistic revenue and expenditure
projections. The districts development plans have also been poorly formulated and not suffclently
attuned to the resources likely io be available for spending by the district authorities;
District staff structures are yet to be reviewed to address critical functional and programme needs
at the districts. For many districts, these structures are inappropriate and inefficient. In addition,
there exists in most of these cE ses, critical staff gaps within the existing structures. This situation
has cohtinued to be a ma50r hindrance to improvements in service delivery In the local
governments, with most unconditional grant resources flowing towards supporting these -trtctures;
-       Local revenues have remalned low for most local governments, resulting largely from the small tax
base, low tax rates and poor adrninistration of revenue collection;
*      Altliough the development budg.3t is to be decentrallsed effective this FY, It is still largely under the
control and management of the central govemment. This has meant that the transfer of financial
resources has not matched the transfer of responsibility. In addition, the implementation of the
equalisation grant as required by the Constitution will only commence modestly this FY;
-      Grants from Central Government have continued to flow mostly as conditional grants. This has
meant that local governments have been constrained to implement their priorities with little
discretionary control over recurrent budget funds. In addition, the local grant formula needs to be
reviewed to promote more equitable sharing among local governments;
-      While the Constitution and the Local Governments Act (1997) provide the basic framework for
decentralisation, a number of supplementary regulations and guidetines are yet to be reviewed and
-49 -



updated to emb'rce fiscal decenlralisation; and
The capacities within MoFPED, MoLG. LGFC, accounts and Intemat audit units at the distrits and
the Office of the Auditor General, in terms of staff, skills, facilitation, are not adequ8te to effectively
carry forward the full fiscal decentralisation.
-bVewn.ient Strategy
19.    The Government has formed a strategy to address constraints to fiscal devolutlon, effectivoneas of
public spending and to the overall Improvements in service delivery under the decentralisation policy. Key
elements of the strategy are detailed below.
Harmohilsatlon of the legal framework
20.    The Govemment will examine and revise legislation that have a bearing on the fiscal
*decentrilisation In order to bring them In harmony with the Constitution and the Local Govemments Act.,
1997. The revision wili cover. among others, the Public Finance Act (1964) which will be undertaken under
the EFMP il and the Property Rates Decree of 1979, the Town and Country Planning Act, 1964, and the
LGs Tender Board Regulations which wil! be addressed under the LGDP. Govemment expects to complete
the revision of the Public Finance Act (1964) and the LGs Tender Board Regulations and submit to
Parliament for enactment by December 2000. The govemment will similarly review other related regulations
and Wuidelines.
StrenpthenIng Public Expenditure Management and Control
21.    Poverty reductlon is a major objective of Government under decentralisatlon. In 1997, the
Government launched the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) in order to take concrete steps to reduce
mnass poverty and to strengthen the serv:co delivery Initiatives under decentralisation. The Govemrnment also
agreed, under SAC Ill, to Implement reforms to the management of public expenditure airmed at (i)
improving fiscal discipline, accountability Eirid transparency, (ii) introducing a stronger outcome orientation to
the budget process; (iii) Increasing the poverty focus of public spending; and (iv) strengthening public
expenditure mnanagement under decentrmlisation.
Promoting Financial Discipline
22.    The Government intends to a) upgrade the systems and structures of financial management and
accountability, b) strengthen the monitoringlauditing of performance and c) establish mechanisms for
sancilohing performance which falls betow established standards. The Government will pay particular
attention to the strengthening of the organs involved In promoting financial discipline including the Office of
the Auditor General (OAG), Internal Audit department - MoFPED, Treasury Inspectorate department, the
Ministry of Ethics and Integrity, Public Accounts Committee and Local Accounts Committees, Inspector
General of Govemment (IGG) and the Directorate of Public Prosecution.
Decentrallsatlon of the Development Budget
- 50 -



23.   fThe Government has agreed on a policy to decentralise the Development Budget beglngii16
FY199i92000. The pollcy provides the necessary framework and steps in the process of devolution of
development resources to local governments. The policy articulates the responsibilities of kei players,
namely central goverment (sector ministries, Ministry of Local Govemment and the Mlnistry of Finance,
Planning .:and Economic Development), the local governments, and the Local Government Finince
Co.mmisslon (LGFC) in.line with the Constitution and the Local Govemments Acts (1997). The pollcy is
ifamed within the principles that are key to sound fiscal management namely:
Macro-Economic Stability - to ensure that a fully decentralised system does not cause financlal
: .    InstabGity In the country
*.  ;  transparency and Accountability
* -    Transfer of Responsibility to appropriate levels for effectiveness
-      Access and Control of Resources using mechanisms spelt out in the Constitution namely; the
Unconditional Grant, the Conditional Grant and the Equalisation Grant.
24.    Over.the next three to five years the Government, on recommendation of the LGFC, Intends to
reduce the amount of conditional grants and to provide more of the unconditional grants to local
Govemments. The Ministry of Local Gover,ment will lead the review of the local govemments' capacities
and systems necessary to manage the ir.crease in unconditional grants. The Government will also review
the local governments grant formula In ordcr to promote more equitable sharing among local governments.
DistrictiStaff Structures
25.    As part of the Public Service Refo-m (PSR2002) programme, a review of the district staff structures
* will soon be undertaken under the technical supervision of MPS on demand and in consultation wlth District
Councils, aimed at assisting the districts to implement rational staff structures. This is expected to reduce
the burden of employee costs over district budgets and to release more resources to service delivery
programmes. This exercise will be co-ori nated by MoLG and is expected to be completed by 2000101.
"the Local Government Road Map
26.    Government has also prepared a 'Road Map' to chart a sirategy and action plan for the
implernentaton of the decentralisation policy as contained in the 1995 Constitution and the Local
G :overnments Act, 1997. The immediate objectives of the Road Map are to provide a strategy and
modallties for:
(a)    strengthening Institutional capacity to ensure co-ordination and harmonization of systems and
procedures between the center and local Governments;
(b)    Improving the revenue base for Local Governments through reforming the tax structure for local
govemrnments and assisting the process for improved revenue genoration;
-51 -



IC)    deflnlng a fiscal transfer system  for the fiow of central government resources to Lca
:Govemm7Znts;                                                                     ,
(d)    improving the financial management and accountability of Local Govemments;   .
* (e)   .ensuring good governance, including polifical accountability and popular participation;
(f)    ensusring an adequate system  of communicating information amongst In stakeholders In
decentralisAtion;
(g)    co-ordinatlng donor support to decentrallsation; and
*(h)    Strengthening local govemance and the role of councils with respect to budgeting, planning,
monitoring and accountability.
27.    The Road wlHl be reviewed to clarify and detail govemment strategy for malnstreaming the activities
required for smooth implementation of decentralization policy within the MoLG and to strengthen the
mechani6m for monitoring the decentralisation programme. The revised Road Map will be issued bj MoLG
-by JtJnb 2000.
28.    The Govemment intends to Implement a programme of actions under two projects namelyl EFMP
11 and LGt)P, to tackle the issues raised earlier in this letter and to operationalise some of. the principles
:contained In the Road Map. Under EFMP 11, the Govemment will address deficiencies in fiscal systems;
strengthen financial management and discipline; implement aspects of decentralisation of the development
budget relating to the policy framework and strengthen the capacity for monitonng and evaluation of service
delivery. Under the LGDP, the Government will focus on elements that will strength the capacity of local
governments for investment planning, budgeting and accounting as provided for In the Local Governments
Act, 1997, and the Local Governments Financial and Accounting Regulations, 1998. The Govemrnent will
enter Into negotiation with other bilateral donors involved in the implementation of the Decentrallsatlon
*Program to coMply,with the policy direction highlighted in this letter.
ImpleMentation and Co-ordination Arrangements
Marindtes of MoFPED, MoLG and other Institutions
29.   - in 1997, the Government launched major reform initiatives In the entire public service eimed at
Improving public services under the umbrella of Public Service Reform 2002. The mission under this Public
Service Reform Programme is to develop a public service which delivers timely, high quality and
app(opn,ato services at the least cost to the nation. The objectives of this programme are consistent with the
overall macro-economic reform program, the aspirations of the PEAP, and the principles advanced by the
Road Map and the effectiveness of fiscal transfers to local govemments for the decentralisation program.
30.    Under PSR2002, the Government agreed to re-organise and restructure ministries, govemment
departments, commissions and districts in order to bring them in line with the principles of tile reforms,
decentralisation and good governance as contained In the Constitution and Local Govemments Act, 1997.
The Government has completed the first phase of restructuring which covered central govemment
ministries. The Government intends to extend the exercise to other central govemment departments and
commissions over the medium term. The exercise shall also be extended to districts through their Initiatlon
and paiticipation and with objective of right rising the structures of Local Governments.
- 52 -



The  1n1stry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
31.    The restructuring of Govemment mandated the new Ministry of Finance, Planning and Econ6riJc
Development (MoFPED) to manage and control public finances in a prudent and sustainable manner and to
ensure efflciency and effectiveness of all spending. The minisiry will also oversee the planning of national
strategic development iniUatives in order to facilitate economic growth and stability, eradication of poverty
and enhancement of overall development. The MoFPED is therefore charged with the Institution of
measures and regulations for the control and management of public finances and the maintenance bf a h1igh
'level of accountability, efficiency and effectiveness of government spending.
32.    The restructuring focussed on the need to strengthen the financial management and control
functions in government. The Treasury department in the MoFPED was uplifted to a Directorate and the
functions for government Internal Audit and Treasury Inspection were separated from govemment
accournting with the creation of separate departments. More rational structures were aiso defined for
accounting urtits within government ministries and departments.
33.    The restructuring also saw the creation of a Budget Policy Department to provide stronger
leadership In budget policy issues and to provide a home for coordinating expenditure management reform
programs. The exercise further recommended the creallon of an autonomous body for the management of
National Statistics. The legal framework for the establishment of the Uganda Bureau of Statistcs (UBoS)
has been 'put in place. The Government is working towards the full establishment of the bureau and, the
board to the bureau has already been appointed and inaugurated. The Govemment has also increased
significantly budget provision to allow the bureau to meet the recurrent costs for the core programme. The
Govemment will malntain this level of financing in the medium term. Government has also agreed to divest
the department of Uganda Computer Services (UCS). The MPS is currently working out the detail plan for
the divestiture. An interim strategy for UGS is however being developed. This interim strategy wilt provide
the fratnework to enable UCS undertake its current on-going activilies and to prepare the agency for the
managament of the anticipated computer:sation of the financial management systems, The strategy will be
reviewed after the completion of the on going Fiscal Management Systems (FMS) study. Capacity building
elemerts of this strategy will be supported! by EFMP 11.
34    -'The MoFPED will, In the' inlerim, carry on the Govemment planning functions unti, the
establishment of the National Planning Authority (NPA). The nature and structure of the NPA is not known:
'yet. Given that the EFMP 11 will support significant aspects of the planning function, the Government will
consult with IDA to review the design of the project to ensure consistency with the NPA Act.
The Mlrtlitry of Local Government (MoLG)
35.    The Govemment has retained the Ministry of Local Govemrnment as an autonomous Ministry In
order to Implement the mandated functions under the Constitution, the Local Governments Act, 1997 and to
1ully ovorsee the process of decentralisation.
36.    The mandate of the Ministry of Local Government is to facilitate the development and management
of self sustaining, efficlent and effective decentralised government systems capable of deliverlng the.
required services to the people. The ministry, working with line ministries, will inspect, monitor and mentor
- 53 -



Local :dverhments. MoLG Is also expqcted to co-ordinate standards as they relate to local govemments
and undetake the statutory role of developing and disseminating national standards on: a) accounting
Instructions. and financial regutations for local govemments, b) local government intemal audit gutidelnis,
tender board and public accounts regulations. MoLG will also undertake to play the role of advocacy for
local govemments and to co-ordinate all activities and resources between the central and locat
cgovernments.
:S7.    In consultation with LGFC and the NPA (which Is yet to be established). the MoFPEbl wi
* charged with the overall financial management including the national budget allocations and transfer oS
resources to disticts while the MoLG will have the responsibility to harmonise local government
prograrnmes for which these resources are being transferred and to work with line rninistrIes to ensure their
viability and sustainability. Under the decentralisation of the Development Budget programme, MoLG will
support the process of strengthening the capacities of local govemments to Implement Invest;ment
.programS.
Other IfletitutfOns
38.   'Government recognlses the key role of the Office of the Auditor General (OAG) In strengthening
financial discipline and Improving fiscal mrianagement. The Govemment will increase the Independence of
the OAG. Several capacity building programs designed to strengthen the effectiveness of OAG and to
extend this work to local governments wil be implemented. Most of these programs will be funded through
.the Financial Accountability Programme to be financed by DFID. Under separate programmes, the
Govemrnment will strengthen associated offices and organs including the DPP, IGG, the Ministry of Ethics
and Integrity, Public Accounts Committee, the Local Accounts Committees and the use of such instruments
as the leadership code designed to ensure financial discipline. The Government has also formed an Audit 
forum that brings together key institutions in ensuring financial discipline including OAG, Treasury. IGGI
Ministry of Public Service and Local Govemments and MoLG to share experiences and find ways to
complement each others efforts.
.39.    Article 194 of the Constitution provides for the establishment of tlle LGFC and also lists It dutes
and functions. The functions of the Commission, interalia, include advising the President on all matters
concerning the distribution of revenue between the central and local govemments; advising local
governments on appropriate tax levels to be levied; and recommend the amount to be aliocated as
equilisation and conditional grants to local governments.
IMplementation Plan for the Decentrallsatlon of the Development Budget
40.    the Govemment has agreed on an implementation plan for the decentrailsation of the
development budget. Cabinet has directed the a phased approach to the devolution of the development
budget to allow the designing of the appropriate procedures and guidelines and to strengthen the existing
capacity to manage the additlonal resources transferred to local govemments. Local Government will be
expected to live within a hard budget constralnt, with expenditure contained within the available resources.
The Implermentation plan will be the responsibility of the MoFPED, working closely with MoLG and In
consultation with the LGFC and line ministries. Three phases are included in the pion for the
decentralisatlon of the development budget,
- 54 -



.Phas 1:   Will focus on designing the required procedures and guidelines for, a) Interaction and 00-
ordination between central govemrmeit, local govemments and donors, b) Identificaton,
planning, appralsal, implementation and monitoring of programmes, and c), streng6trning
prlnciples and modalities for operation of the equalisation grant, to foster the implementation of
the decentralisation process. This phase, to be implemented In the first year, will ilso Identify
current and pipeline projects for which financing can be decentralised;
*iPhase II:   Will Intiate the transfer of resources for development budget earmarked for national prioriles
and discrete district priorities using conditional or unconditional grant transfer mechanisms. All
new donor funded projects In decentralised sectors will be designed and agreed by districts,
central govemment and donors following the established guidelines under phase 1.
Phase I -:  Wlil review and concretise the implementation process and ensure that ultimately all resources
(government and donor) are pooled together and channeled to districts through govemment
grant system. Local govemments will receive significant increase in unconditional grants as
the systems and capacity for planning, budgeting and accounting improve.
41.   'The Govemmen's policy on the decentrallsation of the development budget spells out the
procedures for handling new and existing projects. In the case of existing project portfolio, the Government
has agreed that all projects that exist under schedule 2 and are national in nature will be decentrallsed at
the stareof the programme.
42.    New projects under the same schedule will have their funds decentralised as transfers to local
governments. All future donor support to local govemments is expected to operate within these pr1ncIples
a nd guideilines set by the policy. During the first phase a co-ordination mechanism will be Insttuted to
ensure that future donor support is channeled througlh agreed govemment grant mechanisms in
consultatlon with the LGFC and for inv?stment projects set by Local Government within the National
Planning System. The Govemment will disseminate and strengthen the use of instruments for capturing
donor financing among all agencies ir cluding central government ministries and departments. The
Govemrnment will in particuTar ensure that all donor financing is channeled through the MoFPED.
43,    in order to ensure continued sound fiscal management in local govemrnments, the Government will
strengthen the Local Govemment Budget Framework Paper (LG-BFP) process. The Budget Framrework
Paper (BFP) has been incorporated and used successfully in the nationa) budget process consistent with
the medium temi expenditure framework. The BFP process was initiated in local govemments for the first
time In the financial year 1999/2000. The Govemment intends to further develop this process to ensure
teaistic and efficient planning and use of local government resources (recurrent and development) over the
medium term. The Govemment will use the LG-BFP process to enhance the integration of the planning and
budgeting cycle of local govemments. Govemment is aware about the differences between the budgeting
..and planning processes at the center and LGs. In order to promote harmonization between the two
processes the National Planning Act will spetl out in detail the linkages of the BFP to the LGs planning and
budgetlng processes.
44.    The Line Ministries and MoLG will expedite the development of minimum standards for service
- 55 -



delvejy, which -will gulde the LGFC in the determination of equalisation grants given Its role In advising t
President on- resourcs allocation to local governments. Equalisation Grants are intended to make spIal
provision for the least developed districts depended on the degree to which the district is laggirig behind
national average standard for particular service. EFMP 11 will finance annual National Service Delivery
Surveys (NSDS) through the Uganda Bureau of Statistics, which will support the process of monitoring and
evaluating performance against these standards of service delivery.
45.    In order to facilltate the process of transfer and reporting, the Govemrnment will, under the EFMP 11,
harmonlse the processes of budgeting and accounting between the central and local governments and
bring them in line with the provisions of the Constitution and the Local Governments Act, 1997.
;InteOlkted -8ector Investment Plans
46.   .The decentralisation 'of the development budget will leave central govemment with the main
mesponsibility of policy formulation, supervision, monitoring servce delivery and offering technical guldance
with respect to fiscal management as mandated in the Constitution. The Constitution provides for the
establishment of a National Planning Authoity (NPA) that will consolidate district plans into national
development plans. In order to ensure harmony of Integrated Sector Investment Programs with the
decentralisation policy, the process for the development of the central govemment plans by line. ministries
will be restructured to provide for more consultation with the local governments on the basis of shared
responsibility. The role of line ministries will be limited to development of sector investment frameworks in
consultation with local Governments. The line ministries shall monitor Local Govemments complianoe with
the set standards defined by line ministries. Syslems and institutional arrangements will be designed,.to
facilitate -appraisal, consolidation and monitoring of Investment plans.
Local 4overnrnents Development Grant
47,    Donor funds shall be transferred to local governments directly by MoFPED as conditional grants.
The difference however, is that the condi:ionalities are limrted to only the access criteria and to the functions
'and services of local governments mandated In schedule 2 of Ihe Local Govemments Act 1997. This
access criteria Is designed, inter-alia, to ensure financial compliance by local govemments first and will be
-agreed on by Local Govemments. Local Govemments that may not be able to immediately acoss the
grant as a result of the requirements of tihe criteria will be assisted to improve their capacities by accessing
the capacity building fund through the LGPD. This strategy is expected to enable all local governments
access the grant within the LGDP project period. The grant will Increase the levels of resources to which
Local Governments will have discretion to plan for the provision of their mandated services without prior
determination from the centre and with no sectoral restrictions.
0ther ihipleorentation Issues
48.    The Government will han-nonise the fiscal processes and systems in relation to budgeting and
accounting, across the central and local governments. Care will be taken to ensure that standards,
transparent and Inexpensive instruments and skills for planning, budgeting and accounting are used at all
levels of government. This will be undertaken under EFMP It in order to ensure improvements In financial
- 56 -



:ontrol nd information exchange.
TrAn*ttIonallairanUemen'ts
49.    The Govemrment Is aware about the need to enhance capacity in the MoLG to fully undertake its
mandate in respect of inspectlon, monitoring. mentoring and capacity building in Local Govemments. This'
llmitation in capacity Is a hindrance to the intended programme to mainstream decentralisatlon activities In
the minWty. The Govemment will address capacity constraints for the ministry under the LGDP. The
Government Is also aware that as a result of the decentralisation of the development budget, the ministry
will alsohave to monitor investment programmes to ensure adherence to standards of service delivery. The
mInistry, in assoclatlon with professional institutions, ULAA and NGOs will design and Implement training
programmes intended to further strengthen the investment capacity in the local govemments. The execution
of the rninistys mandate shall be carried out by the two directorates of the ministry namely Local
Govevmments Administration and Local Govemments Inspection.
50.   'The Govermment also recognises the lack of qualified accountants In public service as a serlous
Impediment to financial management. The Government, through the Public Service Reform Programme
(PSR2002) Is designing a pay reform strategy, which will recognise and attract the professionals In various
disciplines in the public service. The strategy is also expected to provide a programme Intended to improve
the staff pay levels significantly. The completion of pay reform strategy and the implementation of its
recommendations may take a much longer time. In order to implement sound fiscal systems under the
:EFMP 1l, the Government will, in the interim, explore mechanisms, including twining with other
Governments, In order to hire expatriate qualified accountants. The govemment wili formulate a strategy
that will allow Local Govemments to benefit from this interim arrangement. The Govemment will. at the
same time invest significantly in the development of the accounting cadre to completely fill the gaps in the
govemrnent accounting, inspectorate and auditing functions by the end of the project.
Capaity  ollding
51.    The strategy outlined in this letter present capacity implication for the institutions Involved. Under
;EFMP 11, the Government will pay particular attention to the development of capacity, in a sustainable way,
In the areas of budgeting and accounting and overall fiscal management. Specifically, Government intends
make major Improvements to the stafling in the accounting and auditing function and to strengthen
professionalism.  The Govemment will also address several deficiencies in capacity In relation to local
govermenmt institutions, in particular the MoLG, through the LGDP
o-birdinatlon Mechanism
52.    Govemment Is aware of the need to harmonise all efforts geared to reforming and irnproving public
service delivery In order to exploit areas of complementanty and avoid duplicatlon. Government has
accordingly set-up a structure under PSR2002 to provide the necessary co-ordinatiDn and harmonisatlon.
The structure provides technical and policy co-ordination on the one hand and political advocacy on the
other.
- 57 -



'53.    At the apex of the structure Is the Sub-Committee for Cabinet chaired by the Vlce Pres'dent. this
*has the responsibility to oversee the reform programme and to provide the necessary poliltcal direction.
564,    The Cabinet sub-committee Is supported by a Steering Committee chaired by the Head of Public
.$ervice with membership of Permanent Secretaries from MPS, MoFPED, MoLG, MoH. MoED, MoFA, and
Secretaries of Con'missions: Public Service Commission, Health Service Commission, Judicial Service
Commission and flaw Reform Commission. The Steering committee provides a mechanism for consultation
across government and is charged with monitoring the progress of the reform programme, approving
prosramme prioritles and resource allocation. The committee reports to the Cabinet Sub-Committee through
*the  ead of Public Service,
55.    The third committee in the reform structure is the Project Managers Committee that brings together
all managers at Permanent Secretary, Director or Commissioner level as appropriate, for the varous
programmes In the reform  programme. The committee is chaired by the Deputy Head of Public
Service/Secretary, Administrative Reform and has responsibility for sector policy development and
designing work programmes. The committee reports on the progress of the reform programme to the
Steering Committee through the Deputy Head of Public Service.
56.    The reform programme structure is further supported by the Administrative Reform Secratariat
.housed in the Ministry of Public Service. The Secretariat provides the engine for the reform programme and
in order to give it the necessary power and authority, the Government decided to have the Deputy Head of
Publc Service, at the level above the Permanent Secretary, as the head.
57.    The govemment will further review the composition and the mandate of the relo[rn structure of
PSR2002 with a view to strengthen the ilnkage between (he overall public service reforn programme and
the decentralisation programme. In this connection, the Government will seek a strongerrole for MoLG and
the participation of the local authorities in the reform programme. The review shall .also provide for donor
consultation (as stakeholders in the programme) where appropriate in order to ensure continued dlalogue
6n arOa5 of ihterest.
Co-ordination of the two Projects
5B. .   Given the nature of the two projects, EFMP li and LGDP, and in order to exploit maxlmum benefits,
a committee, chaired by Director/Budget with membership from MFPED and MoLG, has been established to
provide the technical co-ordination and harmonisatlon of the two projects. The committee will ensure that
there is no overlap, between the two projects, In terms of responsibilities and scope of work especially with
respect to local govemments. The committee will co-ordinate the activities, their outputs and timing under
the two projects in order to optimise benefits. The two projects still fall within the umbrella of Public Service
Reform 2002 for policy co-ordinaUion and political advocacy. The committee will be different from the
managementlimplementatlon committees within each of the projects but will be designed to effectively take
forward the two projects and to ensure consistency in outputs and the achievement of program objectives
59.    This committee will be reviewed in terms of mandate and memberships with a view to Include as
members, other key players in the program including local government associations. Specifically, the
- 58 -



committee will be restructured to create a forum for harmonising project activitles and ironing out-
programme bottlenecks. The committee will be expanded to include Local Governments, ProgramlProject
manag rrs of other donor funded projects which are involved with the implementation of decentrallsation so
as to ensure synergy. The Committee may occasionally invite the participation of donors to participate In the.
commiftee meetings. In order to ensure'the linkage with the structure under the Public Servlce Reform
programme, the Dlrector/Budget will raise Issues from the committee at the meeting of Project Meanagers
under teAOPSA2002.
Prbcedures and Processes
60.    The procurement mechanisms under the two projects. EFMP tl and LGDP. will be guided by two
principles. Procurriment for activities at the centre will be in line with the current agreement between the
Governinent of Uganda and IDA using programme procurement committees and the Central Tender Board
or the New Government Procurement System as applicable. In the case of local governments, procurement
will be handled through Distuict Tender Boards in line with the rules and regulations for the local
governiMents procurement process.
Monitoring and Evaluatlon
61.    The Government strategy to address policy gaps outlined in this letter is designed to make a
significant contribution to the decentrallsetion process. The Govemment will strengthen the mechanisms for
monitoring and evaluation of the decentralisation programme. This will assist Government to foliow the
challenges in implementation of the programme and to make incremental adjustments to ensure the full
realisatlon of the objectives. The Govemrnent intends to move quickly to mainstream to the decentrallsailon
activities under MoLG and to strengthen the ministry to undertake the monitoring and evaluation of the
programme. The Government will also review and strengthen the fiscal monitoring under the MoFPED.
Accounting and Budgeting of Expenditure
62.    Current experiences for the devolution of the development budget under UNCDF/UNDP funded
district development program is such that money is transferred from a special account controlled by the
MoLG to pilot districts end respective sub-counties on a quarterly basis after submission of a satisfactory
accountability statement. Expenditures eligible under the transIer are only those investments that have been
tncluded in district development plans Management and accountability of the transferred funds is the
responsib[lIty of Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) who is the accounting officer at the district.
63.    Under LGOP. GOU Intends to mainstream transfers to districts by abolIshlng the use of special
accounts. The local govemment development funds will therefore flow directly from the treasury to the
districth against realistic quarterly work-plans. The role of MoLG shalt be to build capacity in local
govermients for plinning, accounting, budgeting and programme implementation as mandated under
seteions 96-101 of the Local Govemments Act, 1997.
64.    The Govemments efforts under EFMP II will be directed to strengthening the financial systems to.
lmprove Information flows, financial control and reporting. The Government intends to modernise financlal
- 59 -



mianagement systems through computerisation and to strengthen the ethical aspects by Introiuoling
professional training for the accounting cadre at the centre and in local govemments. The Goverment also
Intends t1 harmonise standards for recording of financial data and reporting by implementing a suftable
financial Elassification system  across the central and local govemments. It Is expected Ihat the
implemr6lation of modern financial systems and new classification systems will strengthen the process 'of
accountin and contiol of funds.
1rogranm.me Fin'ancing and Design Issues
65.    A number of the priority areas identified in the Road Map are already receiving support from IDA
and other donor partners. Important among these are the Institutional Capacity Building Project, financed by
IDA and. special .assistance by DANIDA and UINCDF to test and refine procedures for decentrallsed
flnsncing and planning for local govemment services mandated under the Local Government Act 1997;
66.    Oovamment is aware that several constraints to fiscal management and to effective service
delivery:still remain to be addressed. The two projects, Second Economic and FInanclal Management
project (EFMP 11) and the Local Govemment Development Programme (LGDP) have been deslgned to
address constraints related to fiscal Imbalances, procedures and capacities.
67.    Government has designed the two programmes to deal with some of the provisions of the Road
Map and to confront the fiscal, procedural and capacily problems. I will now first describe the EFMP 11,
since its main focus is the fiscal soundness of financial procedures, processes and systems. The LGDP Will
apply and extend the work of the EFMP 11 at the Local Government level by supporting the capacity of the
Ministry of Lotal Government to assist Local Governments to operationalise and comply with the Local
Governrments Act, 1997 and, on a pilot basis to assist local governments to define and test procedures fOr
detailed planning and use of devolved development funds.
8econd Economic and Financial Management Project (EFMP ii)
68.    The overall development objective of EFMP ll is to improve Ihe effectiveness ah)d efficiency of
public expepditure wlth the goal of enhancing the quantity and quality of public services delivered to the
people df Uganda. EFMP 11 will be concerned with fiscal capacities, systems and fiscal structural
deficiencies. It Is expected that EFMP 11 will make significant contribuUion to Government's objective of
poverty reductlon through increasing the poverty focus of spending, strengthening the public expenditure
management under local decentralisation, improving accountability and transparency of public spending
and finally preparing Government for the introduction of Outcome Oriented Budgeting (OOB).
69.    EFMP 11 will have three main components. The first will focus on a) strengthening the budget policy
and planning process with special emphasis on the Budget Framework Process both at the centre and the
Local Government levels, b) contributing to refinement of the rules and access procedures for the
development budget and c) building the necessary capacity in MoFPED to support the changes in the
budget process. The second component will focus on capacities for financial management end
accountability, Including improvements in fiscal management systems, and auditing, both at central and
Local Government levels. A third component aims to strengthen the Uganda Bureau of Stalistics so that
mQnitorirg of service delivery against public spending can be Improved. Through this component there will
60 -



alio 'bi support for the establishment of service delivery standards and the Annual Naional Service
:.041iv ry Survey process.
706.    These activities under EFMP 11 are crucial in order to improve Govemments performance on.
servicO delIv6ry, Increase fiscal accountability and transparency, and strengthen macro economic stability,
Local Govedrnment Development Programme (LGDP)
71.    The LGDP will primarily be concemed with the design of decentrallsed financing, planning and
investment manatement procedures to ensure that as the devolution of development funds on a national
scale starts, Local Governments are well placed to efficiently and effectively utilise these resources lo meet
their mandated service responsibilities. The LGDP will focus at both central and Local Govemrnment levels.
At the cenite, one compohent of the program will assist the Ministry of Local Govemment (MoLG) and the
Local Government Finance Commission (LGFC) to operatlonalise their roles under the Constitution of 1995
and the Local Governments Act, 1997. Govemment is aware that Ihe success of decentratisation depends
on the ability of the centre to mentor and monitor Local Govemments in accordance with well-defined
proceduros and standards. It Is important that the centre is capable of mentoring Local Governments to
ensure that they apply their procedures for integrated planning and budgeting and encourage private sector
1nvolvemsent In the production and maintenance of services.
72.    LGDP will also provide development funds to local govemments for provision of mandated services
within echeduie 2 of the Local Governments Act. The funds shall be accessed by those local govemments,
which rneet the access criteria. Performance of local govemments shall be reviewed twice every year.
bOLG shall provide the necessary capacity building support to those weak local governments In order to
Improve their performance In line with standards set in the Local Govemments Act, 1997, Local
.Govemments financial and accounting "egulations, tender rules and regulations and other attendant laws,
regulations and guidelines. These access conditions and measures are designed to ensure compliance with
established local government regulatians and to reward good performance by Local Govemments..
Govemrnment has designed a Participatory Planning, Allocation and Investment Management System and is
testing -this in a variety of Local Governiment situations, in urban and rural areas, In a range of socio-
economic conditions arid at all levels in the Local Council system. The LGDP. together with the Dlstrict
Development Proiject funded by UNC1FiUNOP and the Uganda Local Government Development Fund
financed by DANIDA, will ensure therefore that practically tested procedures are in place ahead of full-scale
devolution of develdpment funds.
73.    LGDP will also finance the monitoring and evaluation activities for program Implementation to
underpin preparation of the rollover of implementation after three years as a move to the devolutlon of the
OCvvekopment Budget to all Local Govemments.
Concluloh
74.    I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate Govemment's commitment to the implementation ot
the policies, programmes and initiatives outlined in this Letter of Secloral Policy. In particular, I am referring
to the commitment lo fiscal devolution and strengthening of public expenditure control, to establish a
- 61 -



:'peOfor'Kanc6 and results oriented local government system, to ensure accountablilty and transparoncy in
fiscal transfers between the centre and local govomments. The Govermment has also a strong resolve to
'promote i  t practices In the delivery of services to the population on a demand-driven participatory,basis. I
must also emphasise that conrsolidation of the country's remarkable achievements In the local and central
'government reform programme depends crucially on progress In devolving fiscal resources to local
govemmenrts and on Instituting systems to promote greater accountability and transparency..
75.    On behalf of'the Govemment of the Republic of Uganda, I wish to thank IDA for the assistance
already provided both through the First Economic and Financial Management Project (EFMP 1), the.ongoIlng
capacity building project (ICBP) and through the preparation facilities for the ErMP It and the LGDP which
have supported our work In designing these two new programmes. I trust that this request for additional
assistance through the proposed EFMP 11 and LGDP will receive your favourable consideratlon.
.'Graid.l.9 ua{.
nt'b st*r .of Flnance and Economic Development
- 62 -



