Report No. PID6478
Project                          Uganda - Second Economic and Financial...
Management Project (EFMP II)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project                          UGPA44679
Borrower                         Government of Uganda (GOU)
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance, Planning and
Economic Development
P.O. Box 8147, Kampala, Uganda
Contact: Mr. Damoni Kitabire,
Director, Budget
Phone: 256-41-258698
Fax:    256-41-341397, 230163
Date this PID prepared           May 20, 1998
Projected Appraisal date         September 1998
Projected Board date             January 1999
Country and Sector Background
1.      Since 1986, the Ugandan government has begun the process of reversing the
legacy of civil war, political instability and economic mismanagement between
1972 to 1985. Real GDP has grown at between 6-7T for over a decade and
inflation has been in single digits for the last five years. Despite this
good economic performance, per capita income still stood at only US$ 290 in
1996 putting Uganda among the fifteen poorest countries in the world. In
addition, Government expenditures at around 18-19w of GDP are only partially
financed by domestic resource mobilization of around 12t of GDP.
2.      One of the goals of the IDA Country Assistance Strategy is to assist the
Government in improving use of the scarce resources mobilized so that the
effectiveness and efficiency of service delivery improves. The achievement of
this goal needs to take into account the Uganda specific circumstances. These
include: a substantial shift of service delivery responsibilities from central
government to local governments which has not been matched by resource
transfers; weak financial management systems; sectoral and local government
planning with an insufficient focus on monitoring of outcomes and outputs;
capacities from policy development through to implementation which are weak
(i.e. insufficient managerial and technical skills). The Government is
addressing the above issues through four reform programs: civil service
reform, decentralization, sectoral reform and expenditure management reform.
Project Objectives
3.      In the context of the Third Structural Adjustment Credit, the Government
and IDA agreed upon an expenditure management reform program which would
improve the composition, quality and transparency of public expenditures. The
project contributes to this objective, over the next three fiscal years by
supporting the first phase of the expenditure management reform.
Specifically, the objectives of the project are to: integrate the central and



local government planning and budgetary processes and support the
decentralization of the development budget; introduce an Outcome-Oriented
Budgetary process by strengthening expenditure management skills and
commencing implementation of expenditure management information systems; and
support monitoring and evaluation of the performance of the economy, poverty
reduction and Government service delivery.
Project description
4.      The project will consist of three components: planning and budgeting;
financial management strengthening; and performance monitoring and evaluation.
5.      The budgeting and decentralization of development budget component will
provide: assistance (including analytical work) to define and operationalize
rules associated with the inter-governmental financial transfer system;
support to the Budgeting Department in the Ministry of Finance to expand
implementation of the Budget Framework Planning process to local governments;
and regular publishing and dissemination of budgets and results achieved.
6.      The financial systems improvements component will support: implementing
legislative framework for improved financial management and the institutional
arrangements to implement the legislative framework; preparation of financial
management staff development plan and support to its implementation;
strengthening and streamlining internal control systems; assistance to
institutions involved with external audit (i.e. Office of the Auditor General)
and audit follow-up (i.e. Treasury Inspectorate, OAG, Inspector General of
Government and Public Accounts Committees at central and local government
levels); development of the overall Government fiscal management system
framework, definition of a chart of accounts for utilization by all levels of
Government and definition of improved accounting, budgeting and financial
information systems at the central and local government levels; and support to
first phase of the implementation plan for improved information systems.
7.      The performance monitoring and evaluation component will support:
definition of an institutional framework including the relative roles and
responsibilities of the Statistics Department/proposed Bureau, the Central
Government ministries (in the pilot sectors) and the district level
statisticians; the Statistics Department/ proposed Bureau in maintaining
economic and poverty data systems; and National Service Delivery Surveys.
Project financing
8.      The estimated project cost would be US$ 23.0 million equivalent.    Of the
total project cost, IDA would finance approximately US$ 20.7 million
equivalent. Parallel financing is being provided by other donors who have
been participating in preparation missions including DFID and DANIDA.
Project implementation
9.      Implementation of activities under the project will be undertaken by
mainstreaming project activities under the relevant departments/ ministries.
Expenditure management reform is one of the activities included under the
Public Service Reform 2002 program for which a program management structure is
already in existence and will be utilized for co-ordinating project activities
at a policy and technical level. The Director, Budget will be the
Government's task manager for the EFMP II project. The Director, Budget will
also be responsible for the first component; the Commissioner/ Treasury
Officer of Accounts will be responsible for the second component; and the
-2 -



Commissioner, Statistics Department, will be responsible for the third
component.
Project sustainability
10.     The project's sustainability will be assured when the development of
appropriate processes, information systems and institutions for expenditure
management will only be sustainable when there are sufficiently qualified
human resources to continue managing the processes at the end of the project.
One of the key issues therefore relates to pay reform and other measures which
will allow Government to attract and retain such skills.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
11.     There are several key lessons learned and incorporated into the project
design from the Economic and Financial Management Project. These include:
limited impact of Technical Assistance in the absence of available and
motivated counterparts, the need to integrate the project implementation
structure into the mainstream activities of the ministry; and appropriate
sequencing of information systems development activities. Other lessons
learned from the Institutional Capacity Building Project are: need for a
common co-ordination mechanism for cross-cutting programs (i.e. civil service
reform, decentralization and expenditure management reform); prioritization of
overall program to a manageable set of activities and the need to have
appropriate sequencing of activities among the cross-cutting programs; and
prioritization of project activities within the context of the overall
program.
Environmental Aspects
12.     The project is not expected to present any environmental risks and thus
an environmental rating of "C" is proposed. Neither an indigenous peoples
plan nor resettlement plan will be developed.
Program Objective Categories
13.     The project would primarily contribute to public sector management.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 5, 1998.
- 3 -



