Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3297-UG
UMI Project Agreement
(Second Economic and Financial Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
UGANDA MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE
Dated December 22, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3297-UG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1999 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and UGANDA MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE (UMI).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
The Republic of Uganda (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 24,700,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that UMI agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in this Agreement; and
(B)
by the UMI Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and UMI, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to UMI on terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS UMI, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) UMI declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, and technical practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for Part D of the Project.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and UMI shall otherwise agree, UMI shall carry out Part 
D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 
to the Development Credit Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) UMI shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part D of 
the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, UMI shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
UMI, a plan for the future 
operation of Part D of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Association reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with UMI on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. UMI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, UMI shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) UMI shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
UMI shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by UMI of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of UMI 
Page  3
Section 3.01. UMI shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. UMI shall, at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and, from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and 
financial practices.
Section 3.03. UMI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. UMI shall ensure that an Executive Director, whose qualifications 
shall at all times be satisfactory to the Association shall be retained until the 
completion of Project implementation. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) UMI shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
UMI shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified copies of 
its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, as well as the 
audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, UMI shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial management system for Part D of the Project in 
order to enable UMI, not later than twelve (12) months after the Effective Date or 
such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(a)
(i) 
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part D of 
the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period 
following the period; and
(ii) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit 
during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period 
covered by said report; 
(b)
(i) 
describes physical progress in the implementation of Part D of the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; 
and  
(ii) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
Page  4
implementation targets; 
and 
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part D of the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
UMI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date fifteen (15) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify UMI of 
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For UGANDA MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE:
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of UMI or by UMI 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Executive Director, or by such other person or persons as UMI shall 
Page  5
designate in writing, and UMI shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
UGANDA MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE
By /s/ Edith Ssempala
Authorized Representative
