                             Document of
                          The World Bank




                                                Report No: ICR0000117




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (IDA-32970 IDA-32971 IDA-3297A)




                                ON A

                               CREDIT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.20 MILLION

                 (US$48.64 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                TO THE

                      REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                               FOR THE

SECOND ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                             June 26, 2007




AFT: Water and Urban 1
Eastern Africa Country Cluster 1
AFRICA

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective April 2, 2007)
                     Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings
                            Ushs. 1.00 = US$0.0006
                            US$ 1.00 = Ushs. 1739


                                FISCAL YEAR
                                  July - June



                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACCA       Association of Certified Chartered Accountants
ATC        Accountant Technician Certificates
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CB         Capacity Building
CG         Central Government
CNA        Capacity Needs Assessment
CPA        Certified Public Accountants
CSR        Civil Service Reform
CSRP       Civil Service Reform Program
DfID       Department of International Development - UK.
DST        Deputy Secretary to Treasury
ECCS       Expenditure Commitment Control System
EMFP II    Second Economic and Financial Management Project
EMFP I     First Economic Management and Financial Project
FINMAP     Financial Management and Accountability Project
FM         Financial Management
FMS        Financial Management System
FY         Financial Year
GDL        Global Distance Learning
GDLC       Global Distance Learning Centre
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GoU        Government of Uganda
HIPC       Highly Indebted Poor Country
ICT        Information Communication Technology
IFMS       Integrated Financial Management System
IMT        Implementation Module Team
ISN        Information Sharing Network
IT         Information Technology
KPIs       Key Performance Indicators
LAN        Local Area Networks
LGDP II    Second Local Government Development Project
LGs        Local Governments
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MDAs       Ministries, Departments and Agencies
MoFPED     Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
MoLG       Ministry of Local Government

MTR       Mid Term Review
NDF       Nordic Development Fund
NITA      National Information Technology Agency
NSDS      National Service Delivery Standards
NTR       Non Tax Revenues
O&M       Operations and Maintenance
OAG       Office of the Auditor General
OOB       Output/Outcome Oriented Budgeting
PAC       Public Accounts Committee
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PDO       Project Development Objective
PEAP      Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PEMCOM    Public Expenditure Management Committee
PMA       Program for Modernization of Agriculture
POPSEC    Population Secretariat
PS        Permanent Secretary
PSR       Public Service Reform
PSRP      Public Service Reform Program
RNE       Royale Netherlands Embassy
SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
TTL       Task Team Leader
UBoS      Uganda Bureau of Statistics
UCS       Uganda Computer Services
UMI       Uganda Management Institute
UNHS      Uganda National Household Survey
URA       Uganda Revenue Authority
Ushs      Uganda Shillings
VFM       Value for Money
WBI       World Bank Institute




                        Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                     Country Director: Judy M. O'Connor
                      Sector Manager: Jaime M. Biderman
                 Project Team Leader: Lance Morrell

                                                UGANDA
                Second Economic and Financial Management Project




                                              CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 22
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 31
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 33
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 35
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 36
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 49
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 50

MAP

IBRD 35523

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Second Economic and
Country:                Uganda                 Project Name:          Financial Management
                                                                      Project
                                                                      IDA-32970,IDA-
Project ID:             P044679                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                      32971,IDA-3297A
ICR Date:               06/26/2007             ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                    Borrower:              Government of Uganda
Original Total
                        XDR 35.2M              Disbursed Amount:      XDR 35.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
Uganda Bureau of Statistics
Uganda Management Institute
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Nordic Development Fund


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/15/1998      Effectiveness:       08/01/2000          08/01/2000
Appraisal:            07/05/1999      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             11/30/1999      Mid-term Review:                         09/16/2002
                                      Closing:             12/31/2003          12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory         Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Satisfactory



                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Adult literacy/non-formal education                             8                 5
Central government administration                              53                80
Sub-national government administration                         39                15


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                             Secondary        Secondary
Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting                Secondary        Secondary
Education for the knowledge economy                          Secondary        Secondary
Municipal finance                                             Primary         Secondary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                              Primary          Primary
procurement


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Judy M. O'Connor                James W. Adams
Sector Manager:          Jaime M. Biderman                 Demba Ba
Project Team Leader:      Lance Morrell                    Gaiv M. Tata
ICR Team Leader:          Lance Morrell
ICR Primary Author:      Martin Onyach-Olaa




                                             ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is to improve the effectiveness of public expenditure
management processes (i.e. the Government planning/budgeting, financial management and
monitoring/evaluation processes). The project will achieve this through: (i) improving and
harmonizing the central and local government planning and budgetary processes and supporting
the decentralization of the development budget; (ii) strengthening financial management
especially through improving accounting processes; (iii) building capacity to monitor
development performance, Government service delivery and the impact of public expenditure on
poverty trends; and (iv) testing the effectiveness and sustainability of a distance learning center
(as part of a global knowledge-sharing program) in supporting capacity building programs for the
public and private sectors.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

  (a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :    1. Improved planning & budgeting of Public Expenditure at national & local
                 govt: (a) maintaining supplementaries within 3% of Govt funded budget;
Value
quantitative or 3%                          3%                                 4.17%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                    12/31/2003                         12/31/2006

Comments         Not achieved ­ There was lack of budget discipline in expenditure management

(incl. %         due to election year pressures resulting in supplementary of 4.7% of government

achievement)     funded budget as opposed to the target of 3% - although the target had been
                 achieved earlier
                 (b) reducing domestic arrears as measured by outstanding stock (in billions
                 Uganda Shillings (Ushs); and
Value
quantitative or 118.2 B Ush                 30 B Ush                           172.8 B Ush
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                    12/31/2003                         12/31/2006
Comments         Not achieved ­ due to lack of budget discipline domestic arrears, as measured
(incl. %         by outstanding stock, increased to Ushs 172.8 billion as opposed to the target
achievement)     value of Ushs 30 billion
                 (c) reduction in deviation between revenue forecasts and revenue collections.
Value
quantitative or 11.1%                       ±5%                                +0.13%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                    12/31/2003                         12/31/2006
Comments         Achieved ­ deviation between revenue forecasts and revenue collections



                                                 iii

(incl. %        reduced from 11.1% to 0.13% surpassing the target value of 5%. This was
achievement)    mainly due to the efficiency in revenue mobilization and implementation of Non
                Tax Revenue (NTR) reforms
                2. Improved financial mgmt, accounting and auditing of Govt expenditure: (a)
Indicator 2 :   timeliness in the preparation of Central Government financial statements by
                reduction in completion time for audit;
Value
quantitative or 5 mos.                     3 mos.                             3 mos.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                   12/31/2003                         12/31/2006
Comments        Achieved ­ The professional training and the use of the automated IFMS
(incl. %        enabled central government ministries to prepare their financial statement within
achievement)    three months of the closure of the fiscal year
                (b) continuous improvement in compliance with the nine month statutory period
                within which audited financial statements must be submitted to Parliament;
Value
quantitative or Late submissions of        Submit within                      Submit within

Qualitative)    statements to parliament statutory period                     statutory period

Date achieved 06/30/2001                   12/31/2003                         12/31/2006

Comments        Achieved ­ All central government ministries' audited financial statements were

(incl. %        submitted to Parliament for review by the Public Accounts Committee (PAC)

achievement)    except for LGs accounts, where the final accounts were submitted to OAG but
                not audited because of capacity constraint with the OAG
                (c) continuous improvement in the percentage of Local Governments producing
                financial statements using IFMS;
Value
quantitative or Nil agencies               30 MDAs                            31 MDAs
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                   12/31/2003                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved ­ there was a lot of enthusiasm from LGs to use the IFMS and the Net

achievement)    Present Value of the IFMS investments at the LGs was positive

                (d) continuous improvement in the number of accountants with professional
                accounting qualifications in: (i) Central Government (including Internal
                Auditors), and (ii) Local Government;
Value
quantitative or 12                         344                                421
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                   12/31/2003                         12/31/2006
                Achieved ­ At the beginning of the project there were only 12 accountants with
Comments        professional accounting qualifications and the target was to achieve 344. By end
(incl. %        of project there were 412 accountants in central and LGs with professional
achievement)    accounting qualifications. The project assisted to sponsor government
                accountants for professional courses
                (e) number of Auditors with professional accounting qualifications in the OAG.
Value
quantitative or 8 auditors                 50 auditors                        50 auditors
Qualitative)



                                                 iv

Date achieved 06/30/2001                     12/31/2003                        12/31/2006

Comments        Achieved ­ at project start-up there were only 8 auditors in the OAG with

(incl. %        professional accounting qualifications and the target was 50. The project

achievement)    sponsored the staff in the OAG for professional training and by end of project the
                target of 50 was achieved
                3. Improved availability of statistical data & information to monitor dvlp
Indicator 3:    performance, public service delivery & impact of public expenditure on poverty:
                (a) publicity of statistical survey results;
Value
quantitative or 9-12 months                  Not more than 6                   5-7 months
Qualitative)                                 months

Date achieved 06/30/2001                     12/31/2003                        12/31/2006
Comments        Achieved earlier but slipped by end of project - The slippage of one month
(incl. %        was occasioned due to the delays in the release of the UNHS III resulting from
achievement)    the need to contract an independent body to validate the poverty numbers
                (b) increased access to statistical data by users measured by increasing numbers
                of channels for statistical dissemination.
Value
quantitative or Two channels                 Four channels                     Five channels
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                     12/31/2003                        12/31/2006
Comments        Achieved ­ Channel of access of statistical data was increased from two
(incl. %        channels to five against the target of four channels. The five channels are
achievement)    Internet, CDs, media, workshops & publications.
                4. Improved cost effectiveness of capacity building efforts through sustained use
Indicator 4:    of distance learning center programs: (a) utilization rate; and

Value
quantitative or 34%                          73.3%                             98%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                     12/31/2003                        12/31/2006
Comments        Achieved ­ Utilization of distance learning centre increased from 34% in first
(incl. %        year to 98% against the target of 73.3%. Videoconferencing is the most popular
achievement)    program in the GDLC
                (b) generation of Revenue from Operation of the Center as a percentage of
                Operating Costs.
Value
quantitative or 20%                          100.85%                           60%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                     12/31/2003                        12/31/2006
Comments        Partially Achieved ­ The centre was able to generate 60% of revenue from the
(incl. %        operation of the centre as a percentage of the operating cost. This was partly as a
achievement)    result of the restriction imposed on the use of the GDLC by the WBI




                                                  v

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator       Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                              approval          Revised      Completion or
                                            documents)       Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Implement the pilot phase of the IFMS
Value
(quantitative                            100%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                            05/31/2005                        12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Achieved ­ The target sites for the pilot phase of the IFMS was 17 but actual

achievement)   were 30 by end of project registering 176% achievements



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                          IP               Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     02/18/2000         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     08/12/2000         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     02/14/2001         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     2.88
  4     04/05/2001         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     3.18
  5     09/25/2001         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     4.89
  6     12/20/2001         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     4.94
  7     04/03/2002         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     5.60
  8     08/20/2002         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     7.16
  9     02/11/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     8.67
  10    07/09/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    12.22
  11    12/15/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    16.09
  12    05/26/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    20.69
  13    11/24/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    26.77
  14    04/18/2005         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               27.93
  15    06/14/2005         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    29.72
  16    12/01/2005         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               34.61
  17    04/26/2006         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    38.87
  18    12/08/2006         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    47.13



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)
1.1.1     The EFMP II was conceptualized in 1998 and appraised on July 5, 1999. The objectives
and design of the project were based on three contextual underpinnings: first the Poverty
Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) goals ­ an overarching government policy for economic growth
and poverty reduction; second the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Uganda
(1997-2000); and third the major reforms which were being implemented by government. The
EFMP II objective was, therefore, consistent with that of the PEAP and the CAS and was
intended to support and deepen the reforms programs of government.

1.1.2     Country macroeconomic context - Uganda's economy had sustained a steady Gross
Domestic Growth (GDP) rate of an average of 7.2% from 1994/5 to 1998/9 with a per capita
growth rate of 4.3%. Although this growth rate was above most of the other Sub-Sahara Africa
countries, the economy was faced with three major economic challenges, namely: (i) low
domestic revenue performance ­ at only 12% of the GDP, below Sub-Sahara Africa average (of
about 20% of GDP); (ii) high and ever increasing central government expenditure - 18.6% of the
GDP by FY1998/9, caused partly by lack of budget discipline resulting in budget over-runs and
supplementary budgets; and (iii) high domestic arrears - 3.3% of GDP due to absence of an
Expenditure Commitment Control System (ECCS).             As a consequence of the above three
economic challenges, the overall budget deficit was at 6.6% of GDP in 1998/9. These challenges
were undermining the achievement of the PEAP objectives and targets.

1.1.3     Structural/sector background - The EFMP II was designed in an environment of weak
civil service capacity for policy development, analysis and implementation.               Although
government had been implementing its Civil Service Reform Program (CSRP) since 1992, not
much progress was made because: (i) the reform did not systematically address the need for a
differential pay structure which would cater for the hire and retention of professionally qualified
staff; (ii) the decentralization policy reform which started in 1993/4 substantially shifted service
delivery responsibilities from central to local governments (LGs) which lacked the necessary
capacity; and (iii) the consequent restructuring of line ministries in 1998 to operationalize the
decentralization policy resulted in down-sizing of sector ministries and the need for new sets of
skills as a result of the change in the relationship between line ministries and LGs staff. The
design of EFMP II, therefore, took into account the various reforms being implemented which
had an impact on the sector. In addition the project built on the experiences and lessons learnt
under the first Economic and Financial Management Project (EFMP I).

1.1.4     Rationale for Bank assistance - The focus of the World Bank CAS for Uganda was on
growth and poverty reduction, which was consistent with the government PEAP objective. The
EFMP II was therefore designed within the context of the CAS (1997 ­ 2000) with the objective
to improve the effectiveness of public expenditure management processes (i.e. the government
planning/budgeting, financial management and monitoring/evaluation processes) to achieve the
effectiveness and efficiency of government service delivery.




                                                  1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
1.2.1     The project development objective was to improve the effectiveness of public
expenditure management processes (i.e. the Government planning/budgeting, financial
management and monitoring/evaluation processes). The project was to achieve this through:
(i) improving and harmonizing the central and local government planning and budgetary
processes and supporting the decentralization of the development budget; (ii) strengthening
financial management especially through improving accounting processes; (iii) building capacity
to monitor development performance, Government service delivery and the impact of public
expenditure on poverty trends; and (iv) testing the effectiveness and sustainability of a distance
learning center (as part of a global knowledge-sharing program) in supporting capacity building
programs for the public and private sectors.


1.2.2     Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) ­ There were four areas of KPIs namely:

     (i)     Improved planning and budgeting of Public Expenditure both at national and local
             government as determined by better management of the budget management
             including budget discipline measured by: (a) maintaining supplementaries within 3%
             of Government funded budget; (b) reducing domestic arrears as measured by
             outstanding stock (in billions Uganda Shillings (Ushs)); and (c) reduction in
             deviation between revenue forecasts and revenue collections.

     (ii)    improved financial management, accounting and auditing of Government expenditure
             measured (a) timeliness in the preparation of Central Government financial
             statements as measured by reduction in completion time for audit; (b) continuous
             improvement in compliance with the nine month statutory period within which
             audited financial statements must be submitted to Parliament; (c) online availability
             of financial information, through integrated financial management systems, for an
             increasing number of agencies; (d) continuous improvement in the percentage of
             Local Governments producing financial statements using IFMS; (e) continuous
             improvement in the number of accountants with professional accounting
             qualifications in: i) Central Government (including Internal Auditors), and ii) Local
             Government; (f) number of Auditors with professional accounting qualifications in
             the OAG; (g) continuous improvement in the percentage of Accounting Officers with
             Audit Committees after the new Finance Bill comes into effect; and (h) number of
             internal Auditors with professional accounting qualifications in the Central
             Government.

     (iii)   Improved availability of statistical data and information to monitor development
             performance, public service delivery and impact of public expenditure on poverty as
             determined by: (a) more timely publicity of statistical survey results measured by
             reducing period between end of work to dissemination; and (b) increased access to
             statistical data by users measured by increasing numbers of channels for statistical
             dissemination.

     (iv)    Improved cost effectiveness of capacity building efforts through sustained use of
             distance learning center programs as determined by: (a) utilization rate; and
             (b) generation of Revenue from Operation of the Center as a percentage of Operating
             Costs.




                                                 2

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
1.3.1    The PDO and the KPIs were not changed, however, some changes were made in
February 2001 in consultation with government to the measurements of the indicators as
contained in the PAD, to make them more quantifiable and outcome oriented.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)
1.4.1    The primary beneficiary target group of the project were central government ministries,
departments, and agencies (MDAs), local governments, and the private sector. All government
MDAs benefited from the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) component of the
project, the Uganda Management Institute (UMI) benefited from the Global Distance Learning
(GDL) component, Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBoS) benefited from the statistical capacity
building component, the IFMS was piloted in LGs, and the private sector benefited from
accessing and utilizing the GDLC as a facility and in terms of obtaining timely payments for the
goods and services they provided to government as a result of improved timeliness and reduced
arrears as well as the improved planning and financial management systems by MDAs and LGs.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
1.5.1    Component 1 ­ Planning and Budgeting (US$9.93 million - 24%)
Component 1 objective: to strengthen central and LGs' planning and budgeting processes to an
output/outcome oriented budgeting (OOB) and the decentralization of the development budget in
line with the policy reforms adopted by government. The component had six sub-components,
namely: (i) improvements in planning and budgeting functions and processes in the MoFPED;
(ii) improved transparency and accountability of the budget and public expenditure processes;
(iii) expanded fiscal decentralization process; (iv) strengthened and more effective linkages
between national and LG planning and budgeting processes; (v) integration of recurrent and
development budget; and (vi) project management (See PAD Annex 2 pages 25 ­ 27).

1.5.2    Component 2 ­ Financial systems improvements (US$19.20 million - 47%)
Component 2 objective: to support the building of central and LGs' capacity to produce timely,
transparent and accurate financial and accounting information. The improvements were to cover
accounting, audit, and inspection functions in the management of public funds both in central and
LGs, and had the following five sub-components: (i) strengthened capacity for central
government to maintain and improve financial management systems; (ii) improved financial data
processing capacity and provision of Information Technology (IT) support for central and LGs;
(iii) strengthened capacity for LGs to maintain and improve financial management systems;
(iv) enhanced capacity and effectiveness of external audit function; and (v) improved financial
management systems at central and LGs (See PAD Annex 2 pages 27 ­ 28).

1.5.3    Component 3- Statistics Component (US$8.38 million - 20%)
Component 3 objective: to build the capacity of Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBoS) to monitor
development performance, government service delivery and outcomes of public expenditure on
living conditions of different population group. The component was to support UBoS to:
(i) improve its capacity as an organization; (ii) implement National Service Delivery Surveys
(NSDS); (iii) strengthen its capacity for household surveys; and (iv) improve the dissemination of
key statistical information (See PAD Annex 2 pages 28 ­ 29).




                                                 3

1.5.4    Component 4 - Global Distance Learning Component (US$3.4 million - 8%).
Component 4 objective: to test the effectiveness and sustainability of a distance learning centre
(as part of global sharing program) in supporting capacity building for the public and private
sector in Uganda. This was to be achieved through the provision of technical advisory services,
the construction of office premises and the acquisition of office equipment See PAD Annex 2
page 29).

1.6 Revised Components
The project components were not formally revised nor were the objectives of the components
changed, however, a number of changes were made regarding specific activities included in the
project. When it was realized that the IFMS would cost much more than was provided for in the
budget, it was agreed with Government that changes would need to be made to the level of
financing in order to achieve the project development objective. During the MTR, it was
recommended that Government request a supplemental credit of SDR 10.5 million to finance the
cost over-run of the IFMS, and to critically review the specific activities to be financed by the
credit. Since World Bank procedures for processing supplemental credits encourage the Bank
staff to work with the borrower to identify alternative sources of funds, and to reduce the scope
and/or scale of the project, some activities were dropped from the project and in most cases
funded by either Government or other development partners. In some cases, some new activities
were included which were determined to be critical to the achievement of the project objectives.
The recommended supplemental credit of SDR 10.5 million was declared effective on June 17,
2004.

1.6.1    Component 1 ­ Planning and Budgeting (US$9.93 million (PAD), Actual 12.11
million)
This component expended US$12.11 million of which IDA contributed US$6.78 million (56%);
NDF - US$2.36 million (19.5%) and GoU - US$2.97 million (24.5%). The following activities
were added/dropped during implementation:

  ·      National strategic plan development was dropped ­ requirement revised to focus on Long
         Term Expenditure Framework (LTEF) and implemented using in-house resources.
         Activity deleted following Mid Term Review (MTR) since it was implemented in-house;

  ·      Poverty studies were dropped - requirement reviewed to avoid duplication under the
         Poverty Monitoring and Analysis Unit in the MoFPED. Activity deleted following MTR;

  ·      Expanded fiscal decentralization process was dropped following the MTR - activity was
         implemented under the Fiscal Decentralization strategy (FDS) outside the control of the
         project. In the course of the FDS implementation, roles were redistributed including the
         mainstreaming of some activities. The project retained only the role of strengthening the
         LG Budget Framework Paper (BFP) process;

  ·      Integrate recurrent and development budgets (support consultancies and finance
         sensitization workshop) - requirement reviewed; partly implemented in-house (for
         example institutional integration) and partly under IFMS (the development of a new chart
         of accounts). The activity was completed therefore dropped from the Planning and
         Budget component; and

  ·      New activity ­ support to effective participation of Parliament in the national planning
         and budget process was added.




                                                 4

The NDF supported the effective participation of Parliament in the national planning and budget
process and also co-funded activities associated with the improvement of central government
capacity to undertake effective and efficient national planning and budgeting.

1.6.2   Component 2 ­ Financial system improvements (US$19.2 million (PAD), Actual
US$41.67 million)
Component 2 expended US$41.67 million (against original PAD budget of US$19.2 million) of
which IDA contributed US$30.74 million (73.8%); RNE - US$2.73 million (6.6%), DfID (FAP)
­ US $2.53 million (6.1%) and GoU ­ US$5.67 million (13.6%). The increase in cost was due to
the cost over-run for the procurement of the IFMS. The following activities were added/dropped
during implementation:

  ·     Consolidation of staff and equipment - activity was dropped following agreement to
        house Uganda Computer Services (UCS) in the new building for Uganda Bureau of
        Statistics (UBoS);

  ·     Training of UCS staff - dropped as a stand-alone activity but incorporated as part of
        IFMS implementation;

  ·     Other Capacity Building for LGs (computers, printers, UPSs, filing cabinets, vehicles,
        motorcycles, other equipment) - requirement reviewed to focus more on the
        implementation of IFMS and training of local government staff in professional
        accounting techniques in preparation for IFMS implementation.            Procurement of
        equipment and vehicles for LGs was, therefore, not carried out under this component;

  ·     Development of revenue module for Kampala City Council (KCC) - activity dropped due
        to budgetary constraints to implement the recommended solution. Activity recommended
        to be undertaken under follow-on project; and

  ·     The indicator measurement for percentage of accounting offices with audit committees
        after the new Public Finance and Accountability Act 2003 comes into office was dropped
        and IDA credit agreement amended accordingly. This was because the appointment of
        these committees was dependant on the restructuring of line ministries which was outside
        the influence of the project.

The RNE was used to co-finance general capacity building activities, an accountant training
program for LGs and support to the office of the Auditor General. DfID also contributed a total
of GBP 1.3 million (US$2.53 million) specifically to finance the Financial Accountability
Program (FAP). The IFMS was estimated at US$5 million at appraisal but the bid price was
about US$18 million (poor quality at entry ­ see paragraphs 5.1.1 ­ 5.1.2)

1.6.3   Component 3 ­ Statistics (US$8.38 million (PAD), Actual US$13.72 million)
Component 3 expended US$13.72 million (against original PAD budget of US$8.38 million) of
which IDA contributed US$7.08 million (51.6%); NDF - US$1.94 million (14.1%) and GoU ­
US$4.70 million (34.3%). The following activities were added/dropped during implementation:

  ·     Advisory services for macroeconomic statistics - the activity was financed by DfID.
        Following the MTR, DfID financing was removed from the EFMP II framework and
        executed separately;

  ·     Advisory services for census of business establishments (COBE) - the activity was
        financed by DfID. Following the MTR, DfID financing was removed from the EFMP II
        framework and executed separately,




                                                  5

  ·     Statistics dissemination - activity financed in-house from UBOS budget; and

  ·     Second and third house-hold surveys were included at the request of government.

The budget over-run by this component was mainly as a result of a change by government to the
original scope of the new building for UBoS from a 185 UBoS staff requirement to one for 300
people.   The new building would house UBoS, the Population Secretariat (POPSEC) and
National Information Technology Agency/Uganda Computer Services (NITA/UCS) with a 160 -
seat conference hall and three parking levels for 93 vehicles. The increased cost of the building
was partially funded by development partners and partially by GoU. The NDF was used to co-
finance the relocation of UBoS from Entebbe to Kampala, furniture in the new building and the
implementation of the IT strategy at UBOS.

1.6.4   Component 4 ­ GDLC ­ (US$3.4 million (PAD); Actual US$4.28 million)
Component 4 expended US$4.28 million (against original PAD budget of US$3.4 million) of
which IDA contributed US$2.42 million (56.4%) and GoU ­ US$1.87 million (43.6%). No
change was made to this component.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)
The following other changes were made:

1.7.1   Amendments to the DCA: The DCA was amended eleven times and for the following
        reasons:

Amendments of schedules
    ·     February 13, 2001 ­ Amendment to Schedule 4 para 7, 8, 9 in regards to
          implementation of the Public Service Pay Reform Strategy
    ·     April 28, 2001 ­ change in the schedule 1 of the DCA re: withdrawal of the proceeds of
          the credit
    ·     May 31, 2001 ­ Amendments to Schedule 4 paras 7, 8, and 9(b)
    ·     August 12, 2002 ­ Amendments to Schedule 1 of the DCA and Schedule 2, Part B to
          include audit costs.
    ·     August 15, 2003 ­ Amendment to Schedule 1 of the DCA

Amendments to extend closing dates

    ·     January 10, 2003 ­ Extension of the closing date to December 31, 2005

    ·     July 18, 2005 ­ Extension of closing date to December 31, 2006 and reallocation of the
          proceeds of the credit

Amendments for supplemental credit

    ·     November 25, 2003 ­ Additional assistance worth SDR 10.5 million (supplemental
          credit)

    ·     February 20, 2004 ­ Extension of terminal date of effectiveness for the supplemental
          credit.




                                                  6

Amendments to revise the Public Finance Act, 1964

    ·     March 29, 2005 ­ Revision of the Public Finance Act of 1964

Amendments to reallocate credits

    July 20, 2005 ­Amendments to reallocate credit and modify performance indicators

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)
2.1.1   The quality at entry was moderately unsatisfactory. There was no official review of
quality at entry by QAG and the project had the following entry problems: (i) miscategorization
of the EA rating of C for a project which included construction of a building; (ii) no emphasis
given to change management issues ­ IFMS was rather treated as a technology issue; (iii) lack of
consultation on the inclusion of the GDLC in project; and (iv) no detailed analysis to form basis
to estimate the cost and time of implementing the IFMS.           However, the three appraised
components reflected Government's commitment to PFM reform and better expenditure
management by integrating the budgetary and treasury functions. The project also reflected
Government's commitment to address poverty and policy issues by increasing the capacity of
UBOS to develop better and more timely data.

2.1.2   The following factors affected project quality at entry:

    · Inadequate capacity at government level: Government had neither any experience with
       the IFMS nor was any detailed technical design work done prior to appraisal. The first
       consultant engaged before appraisal failed to conceptualize the IFMS solution, and after
       six months the contract was terminated. This project design lacked critical details for the
       IFMS implementation leading to time and cost over-runs.

    · Inadequate preparation for the GDLC: The GDLC was appended to the project during
       negotiation. No prior analytical work was done on the operations and sustainability of the
       GDLC based on the experiences of existing centers. Government had not, therefore, fully
       conceptualized and internalized the mode of operation of the GDLC within the wider
       GDLN of the WBI and the challenges such a modality would impose on the sustainability
       of the center. There was lack of expertise to operate the GDLC in the areas of marketing,
       procurement of highly complex equipment and lack of support from the Bank in carrying
       out the training of the courses.

    · Under estimated risks: There were a number of risks that were underestimated and not
       addressed in the PAD. They included the following:

            Inadequate budget discipline: The factors limiting the ability of the implementing
            agency to ensure budgetary and expenditure control within the means of the project
            were not properly conceptualized. Government supplementary increased to 4.2% of
            government funded budget as opposed to the 3% target and domestic arrears rose
            from the base figure of Ushs 118.2 billion to Ushs 172.8 billion as opposed to the
            target of Ushs 30 billion; The deterioration in budget discipline can be attributed to
            factors largely beyond the scope of the project. As a consequence, the objective of
            the planning and budgeting component was only partially met.




                                                7

             Delays in Parliamentary approvals: Requirement for Parliament to approve the
             original credit and supplemental credit took several months, and amount of time was
             not factored in the project implementation time frame.

             Conceptualizing technology solution vs. change management; The system aspect of
             the project were conceptualized primarily as a technology (ICT) solution. This did
             not pay sufficient attention to the institutional changes and the transformation of
             business process that come with systems of the kind. This approach did not give
             sufficient focus to the challenges which would be associated with the need to change
             the mind set of government officials to do business differently with the introduction
             of new technologies.      Thus, it was necessary to review this approach and to
             emphasise the change management aspects.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)
2.2.1    Due partly to the above mentioned deficiencies, the project got off to a slow start but was
able to overcome these factors and implementation picked up due to increased GoU ownership
and sustained implementation support, though considerable adjustments were required as noted
below.    The mainstreaming of EFMP II implementation from the start into government
departments helped in ensuring ownership and successful implementation of the project. Overall
responsibility and accountabilities were with the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury (DST). The
Director Budget, MoFPED was the component manager for component 1, Director Accounts
(Accountant General) for component 2, the Executive Director UBoS for component 3, and the
Director Uganda Management Institute (UMI) for component 4.

2.2.2    A small PCU was funded by the project. The PCU consisted of a few professional staff
familiar with World Bank procedures. They assisted the component managers in procurement,
financial management and preparation of project financial statements for audit, preparing
progress reports and reporting both to government and the Bank.

2.2.3    Although the PDO remained the same, some changes where made in the component
activities (see paragraphs 1.6.1 - 1.6.3).     The assessment of overall progress by the MTR
conducted in September 2002 revealed that the project had made significant progress towards the
achievement of the PDO and that the objective continued to be both relevant and achievable in
relation to the specific KPIs although progress differed between components. A number of issues
hampering project performance at strategic, management and individual component levels were
also identified. The following performance improvement activities were recommended and done:
(i) securing additional funding and time for project activities; (ii) constant updating of project
management documentation to support revised project strategy, planning, risk assessment, budget,
performance, M & E, coordination and change management; (iii) reconstituting project
management committee; and (iv) review of project implementation arrangements to streamline
administration, donor support and procurement activities.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
2.3.1    The project design summary provided the M&E framework for the project. During
implementation of the project, the coordinating unit was able to collect the necessary data and
carry out the M&E function. The quality of the data was reliable and government is currently
making use of the M&E results to inform its policy.




                                                 8

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)
The safeguards and fiduciary issues were fully complied with by the project. A detailed EIA was
carried-out and due process followed for the construction of the UBoS Statistics House.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)
2.5.1    Transition arrangement to post-completion operation - Government has budgeted
US$1.15 million this financial year for the post completion of EFMP II.

2.5.2    Operation & Maintenance arrangements ­ Government has developed an IFMS
sustainability strategy which includes: (i) support and maintenance of the system (excluding
licenses); (ii) staffing and knowledge retention; (iii) staff training; (iv) replacement and up-grade
of equipment; (v) licenses; (vi) sites recurrent costs; (vii) data centre annual recurrent costs; and
(viii) system assurances. Full implementation of the strategy will ensure the sustainability of the
IFMS. Government is committed to providing about US$1.2 million annually to finance the
strategy.

2.5.3    Sustaining reforms and institutional capacity ­ Many of the graduate accountant staff
who were used for the implementation of IFMS have been mainstreamed into the government
institutions. Support for IFMS to MDAs and LGs is currently being done using a pool of
Ugandan professionals trained under the project. These measures will ensure the sustainability of
the reforms and institutional capacity both at the central and LGs as the IFMS is handed over to
MDAs

2.5.4    Follow-up operation ­ GoU has designed the Financial Management and Accountability
Project (FINMAP) as a follow-on operation to the EFMP II. The other development partners
(DfID, Norway, Sweden, EU and Ireland) have committed US$28.39 million to support the
implementation of the FINMAP which is intended to deepen and consolidate the Public Financial
Management (PFM) reforms achieved under EFMP II. Government has approached the Bank to
co-finance the FINMAP.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
The project objectives are relevant to Uganda's development priorities consistent with the PEAP
and the Bank's CAS.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)
Achievement of PDO is rated satisfactory. The achievements by component are summarized
below.

3.2.1    Component 1 ­ Planning and Budgeting ­ moderately satisfactory. The component
partially achieved its objective. The budgeting functions in central and local government have
been strengthened through the use of the IFMS and thus integrated with the treasury. Budget


                                                 9

preparations have also been streamlined and harmonized through improved communications and
planning between central and local governments. Government was able to reduce the deviation
between revenue forecasts and revenue collections from 11.9% in 1999/0 to 0.13% (below the 5%
target) by 2006/7.         Government was also able to achieve the target of maintaining the
supplementaries below 3%, but in 2005/6 and at the closing of the credit, the supplementaries
rose to 4.17% due to election year pressures. Government failed to reduce domestic arrears as
planned as levels increased to Ushs 172.8 billion (above the Ushs 30 billion target). However,
this target was also being achieved earlier when domestic arrears averaged Ushs 93.88 billion
during the implementation period). (See annex 2 ).

3.2.2    Component 2 ­ Financial systems improvements ­ satisfactory.                                        The component
achieved its objective. This is demonstrated by: (a) the timeliness in the preparation of central
government financial statements as measured by reduction in completion time for audit from 5
months (1999/0) to 3 months in 2005/6; (b) all ministries and central government departments'
accounts are now audited and submitted within the 9 months statutory requirement to Parliament;
(c) standardization of policies and procedures to govern the use of the Financial Management
System (FMS); and (d) knowledge on a real time basis of revenue from tax, non tax and donors;
commitments, liabilities, and outcome of major policies.

At the sites where the IFMS is implemented, the reporting has greatly improved and the centre
can now access LGs reports/financial transactions via the IFMS. Revenue collection is enhanced
due to full disclosure of the Non Tax Revenues (NTR). The system has ensured uniform
reporting across government by the use of a uniform chart of accounts. Those institutions using
IFMS are able to produce timely financial reports. The number of accountants with professional
qualifications increased from 12 in 2001 to 421 at the close of the credit, and the number of
professional auditors in the Office of the Auditor General increased from 8 to 50. At the end of
the project, all of the recently qualified accountants had been retained in government. The NPV
of the investments made in the IFMS at the local governments was positive suggesting that both
sites tested are net benefit investments. ( See Annex 2 and para. 3.3.1).

3.2.3    Component 3 ­ Statistics ­ satisfactory. The component achieved its objective. The
capacity of UBoS has been enhanced and there is now improved availability of statistical data and
information to monitor development performance, public service delivery and the impact of
public expenditures on poverty. In addition, there is now timely publication of statistical survey
results (reduced from 12 months to 7 months by 2005/6), increased access to statistical data by
users through the increased numbers of channels from one to five (internet, CDs, media,
workshops and publications) by 2005/6 and use of survey results to inform and influence
government policy for resource allocation for poverty reduction. See Annex 2.

3.2.4    Component 4 ­ Global Distance Learning Centre1 - satisfactory. The objective of this
component was to test the effectiveness and sustainability of a distance learning centre; this
objective was satisfactorily achieved. The capacity utilization of the centre increased from 34%
in 2000 to 98% by 2006 compared to a target of 73%, and the GDLC now provides specialized
training that may not be readily available in the local market. However, the GDLC can only meet
60% of its expenditure from internally generated revenue, but with the recently upgraded



1
  The GDLC is one of 70 GDLC in operation around the world which makes up the World Bank's Global Distance Learning Network
(GDLN). The system was to improve cost effectiveness of capacity building efforts through sustained use of distance learning centre
programs.




                                                              10

equipment, the forecast is for revenues to continue to increase. The sustainability of the centre
has been enhanced by being incorporated into the normal operations of the UMI where the
technology can be used more effectively. See Annex 2 and paragraph 5.2(b).

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
3.3.1    No cost-benefit or cost effectiveness analysis was conducted during project appraisal.
However, for the ICR a cost-benefit analysis of the IFMS was conducted for the pilot local
governments at Lira and Jinja. The result shows a Net Present Value (NPV) of Ushs. Billion
12.51 and 18.31 respectively at a social discount rate of 12% suggesting that the IFMS sub-
projects at both sites are net benefit investments.       Further, the economic analysis shows
improvement in the capacity as well as efficiency of local governments in planning, budgeting,
financial management, and analysis of expenditure for poverty reduction. A summary of the
economic analysis is presented in Annex 3 of the ICR.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory
Two of the four components, representing 77% of the total project costs and about 74% of the
IDA resources were rated satisfactory, and the remaining two components were moderately
satisfactory. The project achieved its development objectives which are relevant to the GoU's
development priorities, consistent with the PEAP and CAS objectives, and thus the overall
outcome of the project is rated satisfactory. (See paragraphs 3.2.1 ­ 3.3.1 above).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The impact of IFMS on social development is deemed to be significant. More people are trained
in modern technology and this has positively impacted on their productivity in the workplace.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
3.5.1    The main achievement of the project has been its contribution to strengthening central
and LG institutions in the planning and public expenditure management processes as well as
monitoring of service delivery. Using the project, the treasury function has been significantly
improved in skills and organization leading to improved financial reporting. As a result of
institutional strengthening, among others, relations between the MoFPED and other MDAs have
become more transparent with greater accountability and trust. In addition, the PEAP monitoring
has also benefited from this greater institutional cohesion allowing greater sharing of timely and
quality data. There is improved capacity by Parliament in its provision of oversight function to
the executive in planning, allocation and utilization of public resources.        There is also a
documented increase in demand for statistical data by decision makers which would improve the
quality of recent policy decisions.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
3.5.2    The Planning and budgeting component has improved the internal communication within
the MoFPED because of the use of a Local Area Network (LAN) with 425 computers connected
on the information sharing network (ISN). There is marked reduction in the use of paper for
internal communication. Decision making has been made faster because of the ISN resulting in



                                                11

improved capacity for macro-economic management and budget cycle. The extension of the
concept of Budget Framework Paper (BFP) to LGs resulted in three major outcomes:
(i) improved transparency in LGs planning and budgeting processes; (ii) better coordination
between central and LGs budgets since MoFPED issues the same budget call circulars to MDAs
and LGs indicating the available resource envelop from Treasury for the next fiscal year; and
(iii) the harmonization of fiscal year of central and LGs which runs from July 1 to June 30.

3.5.3     The financial management component has enhanced the professional competencies of the
Ugandan public sector accounting cadre and improved coordination and development of IT use in
government programs and projects.         A well stocked library is in place at the Accountant
General's office and is accessible and utilized by staff participating in research and the
professional training program it receives ten clients (users) per working day. A training database
for accountancy training has been set-up and is very useful for planning purposes.               The
professional training initiated by this component has triggered a number of self sponsorship from
both public and private accounting staff to register for professional exams. This has resulted in
the development of a critical pool of professional accountant/audit carders within the Uganda,
both public and private sector.

3.5.4     Public Financial Management strategy is being developed for all local governments. In
coordination with LGDP II, government is designing an integrated PFM strategy for central and
local governments to maximize the use of the IFMS and to introduce a complementary system for
the smaller local governments.

3.5.5     The Statistics Component has significantly enhanced the capacity of UBOS to undertake
national surveys and provide data/management on public service delivery and poverty monitoring.
The completion of a sound IT infrastructure has been instrumental in pulling together and
enhancing accessibility to improve statistics data.        A library (resource centre) has been
established as repository of statistical data and a one-stop centre for receiving and processing user
requests as well as an outlet for selling statistical products and services. UBoS is now able to
release the result of its survey reports within six months after finishing field activities in time to
inform government policy. With the construction of the Statistics House next to that of MoFPED,
UBoS's position in driving the national statistics system and supporting the PEAP monitoring
have been enhanced as it is closer to its clients.

3.5.6     The Global Distance Learning Centre (GDLC) has enabled access to key international
programs to both public and private sector more cheaply. It has also contributed to increased IT
literacy in Uganda. With the facilities provided by the GDLC, UMI conducted 264 computer
aided courses attended by 5,254 participants.            IT facilities and training have greatly
complimented and enhanced UMI programs. The GDLC has resulted in increased clientele at
UMI who end-up being aware and access more of UMI's primary and other services. UMI has
also been able to develop and convert two of the distance learning courses which it is now
running in-house.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
The IFMS beneficiary survey results show that on average 83% of the respondents observed that
managerial benefits have been highly or moderately realized as a result of using the IFMS. (see
detail in annex 5). In addition, the survey also indicated that because of the internal control
procedures in the IFMS, the incidence of corruption has been reduced dramatically.




                                                  12

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
4.1      The risk to the Development Outcome is Moderate due to:

     · Inadequate budget discipline: The high incidences of budget indiscipline particularly in
        public administration sector threaten to erode the achievements registered in budgetary
        and expenditure control. The indiscipline was seen in the over-spending that occurred
        during the recent election process which resulted in significant recurrent budget over-runs
        (from target of Ush 30 billion to Ush 172.8 billion) and large increases in domestic areas
        (from target of 3% of government budget to 4.17%) undermining the credibility of the
        budget process.

     · Sustainability concerns: Whereas MDAs may afford to maintain the IFMS, LGs which
        have become much smaller and less financially viable, will have difficulties to operate and
        sustain the IFMS, but the PFM strategy for local governments is addressing this risk.

     · Delays in pay reforms: The inadequate reforms in the pay structures increases the risk that
        the staff trained in the project may not be retained. The IFMS accountants who have been
        absorbed by government may move to the private sector which might offer better terms.

     · Institutional change: The new systems and procedures introduced with the IFMS may not
        be sustained without constant support and attention of senior officials.

     · Non viability of the GDLC: The non financial viability of the GDLC, given the risks
        associated with exposure to technology changes and the current restrictive environment of
        its operations, is preventing the centre from being able to innovate and compete in the
        market.

4.2      The above risks will be addressed by FINMAP, the follow-up operation after the EFMP
II (see paragraph 2.5.4).

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Bank performance in ensuring QAE was moderately unsatisfactory
5.1.1    The prioritization of the Bank funded EFMP II activities was done within the context of
the government's overall expenditure management reform program with DfID, DANIDA,
UNCDF and the NDF as interested donors. The Bank funded activities were only demarcated
after the other donors had indicated interest in financing particular activities. This ensured
coordination and harmonization of donors/Bank interventions to support a government owned
reform program.

5.1.2    Although EFMP II was designed based on the experiences and lessons learnt under
EFMP I, it had an ambitious agenda. Given the complex nature of the project, the main
challenges were in the area of integration and coordination within EFMP II and between EFMP II
and other initiatives, reforms and programs. During the design process, the Bank team did not
bring, the international expertise to guide the client as to how best the project objective could be
achieved in terms of the time scale, financial requirement, and architecture. There was no
detailed analysis and design of the IFMS solutions prior to appraisal. In addition, a new



                                                 13

component (GDLC) was introduced into the project by the Bank during negotiations which was
not part of the original concept design of the client. These events affected the quality of the
project and the consequences have been: (i) budget over-runs; (ii) a supplemental credit;
(iii) many addenda to IFMS contracts; (iv) revision of performance measurement indicators;
(v) eleven amendments to the DCA; and (vi) extension of closing date by three years. However,
as stated in para. 2.1, the project reflected Government's commitment to PFM reform. It also
assisted Government with the development of an M&E system using robust KPIs ­ even though
some of the measurements were modified during implementation to make them more quantifiable.

Implementation: The Bank performance was satisfactory during implementation
5.1.3   The Bank team constantly reviewed and addressed many of the weakness in the project
design by working closely with the Borrower while maintaining the project objective.              In
particular, the Bank: (a) allowed for flexibility in terms of resources and time which supported the
successful project implementation; (b) provided additional expertise, to advise the Borrower on
the IFMS; (c) responded promptly to operational issues (procurement, and financial
administration); and (d) responded well on amendments to the DCA requested by the Borrower.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory
5.1.4   Although there were a number of changes in the TTLs in the project team shortly after
the project was approved, the project was well supervised by a stable Bank team which consisting
of multi-disciplinary members. The quality and availability of the supervision team have been
high and frequent.        During supervision missions, issues which would affect project
implementation were identified, documented and brought to the attention of management. Efforts
were made to supplement the team, as needed, to bring specialists, frequently financed by other
development partners, to address specific issues which had been identified. It is important to also
note that the project team was basically unchanged throughout implementation. The Bank team
worked with the government counterparts to solve problems identified in a team spirit.
Procurement was constantly monitored with post-reviews conducted as a part of the supervision
missions' activities. FM and safeguards policies were also monitored. The Country Office also
provided support to ensure speedy clearance of disbursement and procurement requests from
government. The frequent supervision and attention to details by the supervision team ensured
the implementation of MTR recommendations to achieve the intended PDO.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory As described in para 5.1.4, the satisfactory implementation of
the project was able to offset a moderately unsatisfactory preparation. The team responsible for
the implementation of the project consisted of experienced Bank staff which largely remained
intact for about 5 years and thus was able to provide consistent and proactive support to the
Government throughout the majority of the implementation of the project. The support that was
provided was able to address the weaknesses in the project preparation phase, and as a result the
overall Bank performance was rated as moderately satisfactory. (See paragraphs 5.1.1 ­ 5.1. 4
above)

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
5.2.1   GoU demonstrated a high level of ownership and commitment to the successful
completion of the project notwithstanding the many challenges the project experienced during its



                                                  14

preparation and implementation.        One of the reasons for the long gestation period for the
preparation of the project (from 1998 to 2000), was an unfavorable environment in which
politicians were trying to keep the planning and financial management functions of government
separate. Thus, more time was needed to achieve a consensus on the design of the project. The
champions for this project eventually prevailed and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Development were merged to ensure the success of the desired PFM
reforms. GoU was proactive in addressing the capacity constraints facing this project and
promoted its sustainability by insisting on integrating the activities of the project within GoU day-
to-day business at the cost of speed in implementation. Also, there was insistence to use GoU
systems but with improvements offered by this project.            Considering all of the unknowns
associated with the IFMS, GoU foresight to negotiate a turnkey solution for the system was
applaudable. This substantially reduced the risk of escalation of costs of this system and allowed
Government to analyze more carefully what they were getting for the money spent.                       All
certificates of acceptance were carefully studied and discussed within GoU before they were ever
signed. In addition, an appropriate overarching institutional arrangement for managing the
reform program (CSR, decentralization and expenditure management) was put in place to ensure
coordination of reform implementation (see letter of sector policy).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


 Ministry of Finance,     the performance of MoFPED is rated satisfactory. The MoFPED was fully
 Planning and             involved in the design and implementation of the project although it lacked the
 Economic                 technical capacity since it had never implemented a project of this nature. The
 Development              Ministry was committed to the realization of the project objective and was
                          proactive to the many changes during the project implementation.

 Uganda Bureau of         the performance of UBoS is rated satisfactory. The UBoS was committed to
 Statistics               the project objective and ensured full implementation of all the activities under
                          the statistics component in compliance with Bank procedures and regulations.

 Uganda Management        the performance of UMI is rated satisfactory. Despite not being involved in
 Institute                the design of the component and with limited initial understanding of the
                          concept of distant learning on the part of the Borrower, UMI was able to pilot
                          and implement the GDL component as designed (See annex 4).


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory ­ (See paragraphs 5.2.1 ­ 5.2.2 above).

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)
6.1      Challenges in changing institutional mind set: The EFMP II should not have been
presented as an ICT project, but rather as a project intended to transform how government would
do business. It was not about the delivery of IT equipment and logistics, but rather how to change
government institutions by introducing new ways of thinking and doing business by the staff.
The project succeeded because both the Bank and government: (i) ensured continuity in
management teams and consistency in commitment to the objectives, (ii) worked closely
particularly to resolve problems and issues and they arose; (iii) constantly reviewed the
implementation strategy and exercised flexibility to allow adequate time and resources as
necessary without losing focus on the intended project objective; and (iv) allowed more time for



                                                  15

the government officials to appreciate the reform, own it and become willing to change the way
they were doing government business.         Implementation of an institutional reform project,
therefore, requires more time and flexibility because of the human dimension.

6.2      Programming approach ensures donor coordination and attracting of co-funding:
EFMP II was developed as a program with many elements. It was not designed as a stand alone
Bank financed project. As such, it was able to attract a number of development partners to co-
finance the various activities within the program. The Bank component of the EFMP II, therefore,
complemented the other activities funded by the other partners. This made coordination of
activities and reporting of progress easy for government since they were being done from a
program perspective. This same process is being replicated in the successor program designed by
government.

6.3      Challenges and difficulties associated with institutional change are frequently not
sufficiently appreciated nor enough time allocated to successfully implement these changes. The
Bank started to support government's request for PFM reform with EFMP I in the early 1990s,
after several years of study by the Government. The EFMP I & II were both too ambitious and
should have been streamlined with more realistic activities and objectives. With the completion
of EFMP II and the successor project, the Local Government Management and Service Delivery
Project, the Bank will have supported the needed institutional changes for in excess of 10 years.
From this experience, future requests to implement PFM reforms, and the related institutional
changes, should be financed using Adjustable Program Loans (APL) to allow Government time to
internalize the required changes without over committing the use of Bank loan/credit funds. The
APL would also provide a phased support for the implementation of the PFM reforms while at the
same time being more responsive to the changing country circumstances. The APL would
provide the needed flexibility and time for government and the Bank to address unexpected issues
and incorporate lessons learned from the implementation of earlier phases into subsequent ones.

6.4      Flexibility in project implementation is essential. The preparation and appraisal of a
project reflects conditions at a particular point in time. However, during the life of that project,
conditions will change and the sector management and project teams need to be provided with the
flexibility to adjust to those changes. Restrictions of flexibility by project teams and failure to
respond to circumstances on the ground will increase the risk of Bank funded projects leading to
failure to achieve the intended project objectives.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
7.1      The Borrower ICR is presented in annex 7. The overall assessment of the project is
consistent with this ICR. It concludes that the project achieved its development objective to a
considerable extent and provided technical assistance and training to improve efficiency and
effectiveness in planning and budgeting processes in both central and LGs. The project also
strengthened financial management capacities of both central and LGs to achieve more timely,
transparent and accurate financial accounting information, build the capacity of UBoS to manage
national statistics, undertake national surveys and collect, process, store, and disseminate
statistical information. The project also supported the GDLC as one way of supporting capacity
building program for the public and private sectors.




                                                 16

7.2      The Borrower's report raises a number of implementation issues encountered which
included i) several technical and managerial changes effected during project implementation due
to substantial pressures on component budgets resulting in budget supplemental, delays, and
numerous amendments of the DCA, ii) the GDLC being initiated by the Bank and appended to
EFMP II without sufficient ownership of the design on the part of the borrower which has
affected implementation through delays (renovation of computer labs and replacement of
videoconferencing equipment) and the associated challenges of sustainability of the centre which
has only reached 60% of its operating cost by end of the project period. The major reason for
failure has been the time difference (Washington/Uganda and the use of the WBI based resource
persons) and the restriction imposed on the centre not to use its facilities for commercial activities
yet this is where it could have gained more profit, iii) the concern about the sustainability of some
key activities in the Planning and Budgeting components, in particular, activities that relate to the
use of IT where GoU still depends heavily on external funding, training of staff, budget
transparency, operationalization of the resource centre, and management of non tax revenue.

7.3      The project team generally agrees with the comments provided by the Borrower.
(b) Cofinanciers
7.4      The task manager for NDF reviewed this document and provided comments on
the text which have been incorporated. However, when asked if these were the official
comments from NDF to be attached to the report, the response received from the task
manager was that the comments provided were not official and should not therefore be
attached to the final report.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                   Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest
          Components                                                       Percentage of
                                      (USD millions)  Estimate (USD
                                                          millions)         Appraisal

PLANNING AND BUDGETING                      6.69               6.86            92%
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT                       15.71             30.84            109%
STATISTICAL CAPACITY
BUILDING                                    5.27               7.08           108%

GLOBAL DISTANCE
LEARNING                                    4.20               2.42            58%

PROJECT PREPARATION
FACILITY                                    1.47               1.40            95%


            Total Baseline Cost            33.34              48.60
Physical Contingencies                      1.01               0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies                         1.79               0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs           36.23              48.60
Project Preparation Fund                    0.00               0.00            0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00               0.00            0.00
     Total Financing Required              36.23              48.60




(b) Financing

                                                     Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds                Type of     Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                       Cofinancing    (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                     millions)     millions)
Borrower                                               7.43         15.25        152%
International Development
Association (IDA)                                     34.04         47.19        97%

Local Govts. (Prov., District, City) of
Borrowing Country                                     0.00          0.00          0%

Nordic Development Fund (NDF)                          4.41         4.53         103%




                                              18

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1 ­ Planning and budgeting: The planning and budgeting component achieved the
following outputs:

    · Reviewed the collection and management of non tax revenue (NTR);

    · Revamped three non tax revenue laws (stamp duty, gaming and casino);

    · Procured and installed ICT equipment in MoFPED to provide on line economic and
       financial information;

    · Trained 423 staff from 37 different government institutions in 18 different programs in
       planning and budgeting;

    · Published and disseminated countrywide 82,000 copies of citizens' guide to the budget
       annual booklets in 8 major local languages;

    · Published and distributed 82,000 copies of the PEAP popular version to policy makers,
       politicians, academia, CSOs etc.;

    · Produced and distributed every year 2000 copies of "Budget at a glance" booklet
       (presents budget in tables and graphs) to stakeholders; and

    · Trained 53 staff members of parliament in budget analysis.

The results/outcomes of planning and budgeting component has been to enable government to
achieve the following:

    · Reduced deviation between revenue forecasts and revenue collections from 11.09% in
       1999/0 to 0.13% by 2006/7.

Component 2 ­ Financial management, Accounting and Auditing - On financial management,
accounting and auditing of government expenditure the component delivered the following
outputs:

    · supported 1,619 staff from central and LGs for professional accounting courses (CPA,
       ACCA, ATC);

    · procured ICT equipment, logistics and furniture for OAG, line ministries and pilot LGs
       for IFMS;

    · developed financial and value for money (VFM) manuals;

    · trained 30 office of the Auditor general (OAG) staff in the use of the VFM audit;

    · supported 111 OAG staff for professional accounting courses (CPA and ACCA);

    · hired Ms HP to supply and installed the IMFS solution in 30 MDAs;

    · trained a team of 9 GoU staff [implementation module team (IMT)] to support the IFMS;

    · trained 600 GoU staff, especially in accounts and administration units, in basic IT and
       computer literacy;

    · established a fully equipped internal training facility with a capacity to train 60 people at
       a go, each with own personal computer;




                                               19

   · facilitated the drafting and enactment of the Public Financial and Accountability Act
        2003;

   · facilitated the preparation of the treasury accounting instructions 2003; and

   · updated the GoU chart of accounts to acceptable international standards.

The results/outcomes realized by the financial management, accounting and auditing activities
and outputs were:

   · timeliness in the preparation of central government financial statements as measured by
        reduction in completion time for audit from 5 months (1999/0) to 3 months in 2005/6;

   · all ministries and central government departments' accounts audited and submitted within
        the 9 months statutory requirement to parliament. For LGs while in 1998/9 110 accounts
        for LGs were not audited, by 2005/6 all accounts for LGs were submitted and audited
        within 9 months after the financial year as per statutory requirement;

   · all ministries (except the two new ministries of ICT and water and Environment) and 14
        districts have online availability of financial information, through the integrated financial
        management system (IFMS) (base line was zero and target was 22 ministries and 10
        districts);

   · 14 LGs are now producing financial statements using IFMS (base line zero, target was 10
        LGs); and

   · the number of accountants with professional qualifications increased from 12 in 1999 to
        421 by 2006 in addition to a total of 2,578 staff who are enrolled (at the beginning of the
        project only 2 qualified accounts were in central government, 10 in the OAG, zero in LGs.
        By the end of the project in 2006 there were 102 qualified accounts in central government,
        52 in the OAG and 267 in LGs. Currently 441 staff from central government have
        enrolled for professional qualification, 111 in the OAG, and 2,026 in LGs. LGs staff are
        being supported under the LGDP II).

Component 3 ­ Statistics - The Statistics component delivered the following outputs:

   · build a 12,500 square meter 9 story building office block with office space for 300 people
        (UBoS ­ 185, Population Secretariat (POPSEC) ­ 75, and NITA/UCS ­ 25), 3 parking
        levels for 93 vehicles, 160-seater conference hall, 600 KVA 3-phase generator and 3 lifts;

   · IT equipment, software, and logistics were procured to support UBoS;

   · trained 82staff of UBoS in various statistics management skills;

   · trained 5 trainers of trainers to train and manage the training activities in UBoS and LGs;

   · carried the first national service delivery survey (NSDS) in the country; and

   · carried two Uganda national Household Surveys (UNHS) in 2002/3 and 2005 to map the
        level of poverty by region and LG.

The following results/outcomes were achieved by the Statistics component:

   · Improved availability of statistical data and information to monitor development
        performance, public service delivery and impact of public expenditure on poverty;

   · Timely publication of statistical survey results (reduced form 12 months to 7 months by
        2005/6);


                                                 20

  · Increased access to statistical data by users through the increased numbers of channels
     from one to five (internet, CDs, media, workshops and publications) by 2005/6; and

  · Use of survey results to inform and influence government policy for resource allocation
     for poverty reduction.

Component 4 ­ Global Distance Learning Centre - The GDLC delivered the following outputs:

  · a building with courtyard, video-conference suit, PC lab, communications room,
     administrative offices, reception area, canteen, library and extensive grounds including
     ample car-parking. The videoconferencing facility has a capacity of 60 ­ 70 participants
     at a go;

  · By 2006 at least 12,000 people have accessed high quality courses world wide at a
     cheaper and in a more convenient manner;

  · The centre has also facilitated a total of 324 videoconferencing and 264 courses; and

  · From 1998 the number of videoconferencing increased from 12 to 65 by 2004/5 with
     participant numbers increasing from 98 to 723 respectively. On average 42% of the
     participants came from the public sector, 47% from private sector, NGOs and civil
     society, and 11% from academia.

  The GDLC has achieved the following results/outcomes:

  · Capacity utilization of the centre increased from 34% in 2000 to 98% by 2006;

  · Revenue /expenditure ratio increased from 20% in 2000/1 to 60% in 2005/6;

  · During the first five years of implementation, the centre has generated total revenue of
     US$840,000 with videoconferencing being the largest source of revenue generation ­
     accounted for 64% of total revenue; and

  · GDLC now provides specialized training that may not be readily available in the local
     market e.g. videoconferencing on issues related to development, health, education,
     agriculture, poverty reduction etc.




                                              21

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Government of Uganda began implementing the Integrated Financial Management System
(IFMS) in 2004. So far the system has been operationalized at 19 central government ministries
and 14 local governments. The system was financed by the World Bank and Government of
Uganda. An evaluation was carried out to establish whether the system is a net benefit or net cost
and whether it was achieving its intended objectives.

The results of the evaluation portray a clear picture of the system's success in meeting expected
benefits.   The qualitative assessments showed that not only baseline conditions improved
following the introduction of the IFMS at the surveyed sites, but also the system has highly
realized almost all the intended benefits. Data from IFMS users and clients survey questionnaires
showed a pattern of almost uniformly positive respondent perceptions about the system's success
in improving financial management systems in government. The improved efficiency in the
payment processes due to IFMS has made it possible to reduce the average payment processing
time from 35 to 45 days to an average of 2 to 5 days. Further, the quantitative assessment also
established that the IFMS is a net benefit project since it has a positive NPV and a high IRR as
summarized below.

The Evaluation Design

The evaluation relied mostly on quantitative data collected from administrative records from two
sample IFMS sites, and also on data collected from IFMS users and clients that shared their views
about the system through focus group discussions and through open-ended written comments.
The evaluation has four parts:

        Part 1: Observed Changes from Baseline in the Perceptions of IFMS Users
        Part 2: IFMS Users Perceptions of Benefits from the System
        Part 3: IFMS Clients Perceptions of Benefits from the System
        Part 4: IRR and NPV estimates of the IFMS

Part 1: Observed Changes from Baseline in the Perceptions of IFMS Users

The first phase was focused on the before and after conditions--basically to establish whether
any change in the baseline conditions had been registered after introducing the IFMS. A
qualitative questionnaire was designed and administered amongst the IFMS users at the pilot sites.
This questionnaire sought Respondents' views as to whether and how the introduction of the
IFMS at their sites had brought about a change in the baseline conditions. Where there was no
changes observed they were required to simply indicate `no change'. Respondents were asked to
give any view that would help to enhance the IFMS rollout implementation. The finding of the
situation before and after IFMS indicates that significant improvements have been recorded and
that there are also areas where significant improvement is expected.

Part 2: IFMS Users Perceptions of Benefits from the System

To assess the perceptions of IFMS users regarding the contribution of IFMS on the performance
of financial management systems in Uganda, a questionnaire was designed and administered at
both pilot and [phase 1] rollout sites. The questionnaire specifically asked the Respondents
(IFMS users) to indicate, by use of Likert scales, the extent to which the expected benefits from



                                                22

using IFMS had been realized at their respective sites, and to indicate any other benefits enjoyed
from utilization of the system that were not otherwise included in the questionnaire.

The IFMS user perceptions led to identification of three types of system benefits:
    a) Managerial benefits;
    b) system-wide economic benefits; and
    c) Other system benefits.

These benefits, some of which are quantifiable, are summarized below.

a) Managerial benefits

Of the 21 managerial benefit indicators used to evaluate the benefit of the IFMS to the user, the
IMFS scored high on 13 of the qualitative indicators. For example, the extent that benefit
`spending within budget limits were realized' scored 97%. Overall, the results show that 62% of
the observed managerial benefits have been highly realized. With respect to the remaining 8
indicators benefit realization showed low to average outcome.

b) System-wide economic benefits

The perception that the IFMS gave rise to system-wide benefits appears to be supported by
significant improvement in productivity.

    (i) Increased productivity on the part of system users due to increased efficiency of the
        system

Table 1: Average No. of days taken to complete the payment process (time between
submission of tax invoice and issuance of cheque) ­ district level


                                Jinja District Local Government       Lira District Local Government
 Nature of Clients
                                 Pre-IFMS            Post-IFMS         Pre-IFMS           Post-IFMS

 Contractors                          9                  4                19                  1

 Service Providers                   22                  4                30                  3

 Suppliers                           73                  7                87                  3

 Overall                             35                  5                45                  2

Source: Evaluators' Computations based on historic record of accounts.

Table 1 shows that Clients now get their money in good time which releases them to go and
create more wealth as opposed to spending time (and money) chasing payments at MDAs. They
no longer suffer from the previous woes e.g. time lost in chasing payments, antagonism from
angry workers due to delayed payments, increased loan costs, etc.




                                                   23

    ii)    Increased productivity of suppliers, contractors, service providers, etc... due to the
           shortened process time for their payments

Table 2: Opportunity cost of inefficiency on GDP from payment process (in Billion Ushs) ­
district level

                             Lira District Local Government            Jinja District Local Government
 Nature of Clients
                       Pre-IFMS       Post-IFMS      Net Benefit    Pre-IFMS      Post-IFMS        Net
                                                                                                 Benefit
 Contractors              0.40            0.09          0.31          2.45            0.32        2.13

 Service Providers          -              -              -             -              -             -

 Suppliers                1.98            0.08          1.91          1.31            0.38        0.93

 Overall                  2.39            0.17          2.22          3.76            0.70        3.06
Source: Evaluators' Computations using assumptions indicated in section 2 on the main report.

Table 2 shows net opportunity costs recovered by the IFMS at Jinja and Lira at Billion Ushs 3.06
and Billion Ushs 2.22 respectively. That is the indicative level of wealth (in current money
terms) that producers are likely to create due to the improved efficiency in the payment system in
Government brought about by the IFMS.

    iii)   Productivity has significantly increased as the skill levels and orientation of System
           Users have greatly improved. They (IFMS users) are now qualified professional
           accountants as well as computer literate and capable of applying their new skills to
           other areas that require similar skills. The staffs have also started thinking about
           themselves as information officers rather than bookkeepers.

    iv)    Pilferage, via the receipt and payment processes, has been minimized if not totally
           eliminated.

    v)     Given the larger size of the system, Government will enjoy particular economies of
           scale e.g. discounts on large purchases of IFMS equipment, stationery, etc.

    vi)    Given the success of the IFMS implementation in Uganda, several delegations from
           other countries are coming to study the IFMS, particularly to benefit from Uganda's
           experience with the success registered in the implementation of the IFMS. Delegations
           come to Uganda and spend money in the local economy, which also enhances the
           country's GDP2. So far seven such delegations have been received--from Lesotho,
           Nigeria, Gambia, Ghana, Serbia, Zambia and Kenya. It is estimated that the hotel and
           per diem expenses in Uganda alone may have generated revenues worth US$ 42,000.
           This represents about 2% of the total Lira and Jinja share of the IFMS investments.




2 Using the UN's DSA rate of $200 for Uganda, the total estimated benefit from such visits comes to ($200
times an average of 5 days times average of 6 delegates times 7 delegations) = $42,000.


                                                   24

c) Other system benefits

    i)     Benefits from contributions of calculating and printing tasks e.g. improved accuracy in
           calculating tasks, ability to quickly change variables and values in calculation programs,
           etc.

    ii)    Benefits from contributions to record keeping tasks e.g. ability to automatically collect
           and store data for records, improved security in records storage, improved portability of
           records, etc.

    iii)   Benefits from contributions to record searching tasks e.g. faster retrieval of records,
           improved ability to create records of records accessed and by whom, etc.

    iv)    Benefits from contributions to system restructuring capability e.g. ability to
           simultaneously change entire classes of records, ability to change large files of data
           about, ability to create new files by merging aspects of other files, etc.

    v)     Benefits from contributions of analysis and simulation capability e.g. ability to
           aggregate large amounts of data in various ways useful for planning and decision
           making, etc.

    vi)    Benefits from contributions to process and resource control e.g. reduction of need for
           manpower in process and process control, improved ability to maintain continuous
           monitoring of processes and available resources, etc.


Part 3: IFMS Clients Perceptions of Benefits from the System

The perceptions of government clients: contractors, consultants and other service providers that
are paid through the IFMS was also solicited. They were particularly requested to indicate how
they felt the system was benefiting them--by answering the questionnaire provided in Appendix
3 of the main Report.

A total of 52 clients were surveyed in Lira, Jinja and Kampala. Ten percent of the clients
surveyed were from Kampala. Below is a summary of the results from the clients' survey:

    i)     Twenty one percent of the respondents were not aware of the existence of the IFMS
           (see Table 3)

    ii)    Forty seven of the Respondents indicated that before introducing the IFMS, it used to
           take them more than one month before receiving their payments from government i.e.
           time between submission of invoice and issuance of cheque (see Table 4)

    iii)   Sixty four percent of the Respondents indicated that they now (after introduction of
           IFMS) receive their payments within one or two weeks; specifically, 38% receive their
           payments within a week's time (see Table 5 for details)

    iv)    Thirty six percent of the Respondents agreed that before introduction of IFMS, they
           used to bribe government staff to speed up the payment process. Only fifteen percent
           of the Respondents agreed to have continued with the practice after introduction of the
           IFMS--mainly in form of `tips' or `token' (see Table 6)



                                                  25

   v)     Only fifteen percent of the Respondents were candid enough to indicate the level or
          nature of bribes they used to pay to government staff (see Table 7)

   vi)    Majority of the Respondents are happy with the IFMS, that it has made the payments
          process faster, except there is still need for improvement (see Table 8)


Table 3: Nature of Clients Surveyed


 Respondent Category               No. of Respondents           Proportion of Respondents aware of
                                                                        existence of IFMS

 Contractors                            16 (31%)                            15 (94%)

 Service Providers                      13 (25%)                            10 (77%)

 Suppliers                              23 (44%)                            16 (70%)

 Total                                  52 (100%)                           41 (79%)



Table 4: Clients waiting time between submission of tax invoice and issuance of cheque
(Pre IFMS)

                          More than a     Between 3 and    Between 2 and    Between 1     Less than a
                            month             4 weeks         3 weeks      and 2 weeks      week

 Contractors                 38%                6%             38%             13%           6%

 Service Providers           50%                8%             17%             8%           17%

 Suppliers                   53%                11%            16%             16%           5%

 All Respondents             47%                9%             23%             13%           9%



Table 5: Clients waiting time between submission of tax invoice and issuance of cheque
(Post IFMS)

                          More than a     Between 3 and    Between 2 and    Between 1     Less than a
                            month             4 weeks         3 weeks      and 2 weeks      week

 Contractors                 7%                 0%              0%             33%          60%

 Service Providers           31%                15%            15%             0%           38%

 Suppliers                   14%                23%             5%             36%          23%

 All Respondents             16%                14%             6%             26%          38%




                                                  26

Table 6: To what extent do you agree with the two statements below?


                                         Strongly       Moderately     Neither
Reasons/Incentives                                                                  Moderately     Strongly
                                           agree          agree       disagree
                                                                      nor agree      disagree      disagree

Three or more years ago we used to
pay money to Government staff to           13%             9%            9%            6%            64%
speed up the payment process

Within the past one year, we've not
had to pay money to Government staff       85%             2%            0%            4%            8%
to speed up payment processes



Table 7: In case you used to pay money to Government staff to speed up your payments,
how much money did you use to pay, on average?

 Size of Bribe                                             No. of Respondents that answered the
                                                           question
 a) Less than 1% of the cheque amount                                               -
 b) Between 1% and 5% of the cheque amount                                          1
 c) Between 5% and 10% of the cheque amount                                         2
 d) More than 10% the cheque amount                                                 3
 d) Other (Specify)                                                                2*
   · e.g. tips, token


Table 8: Client Voices (in verbatim with slight typographical editing)


ID                                        Clients' Comments

      "IFMS has improved the payment system so much as there is always an up to date data about
1     each and every payment made. We pray that more people should be trained so that there is no
      gap left in the event an officer is out of office."
      "The process of processing money is quite long and tedious, because right from the time you are
2     given a certificate to the time you are getting a cheque you gather not less than ten (10) signatures. I
      hope it improves."

3     "We want more knowledge about the new system of payment"


4     "Improvement should be made on payments after completion of work"


5     "Network related problems at times hamper effective payment process. This needs
      improvement"

6     "[There is] congestion in systems, making the system to be too slow or the system network"


7     "I think many more Accounts Staff need to be trained because there are times that invoices are
      not worked on because a particular person is not available"

8     "The new system is faster"


9     "Encourage the system as it keeps all the valuable records for payment for each contractor and no
      cheating is done."




                                                      27

10 "Network should be improved upon to avoid regular breakdowns"


11 "We understand that in our economy there exists better and faster payment systems like EFT and
   RTGS which facilitate very quick settlements; how about adopting the same?"

12 "Delayed payments to our firm have been a result of lack of or reduced collection of local revenues
   by the local authorities"

13 "The system is quite satisfactory"


14 "Since the introduction of IFMS system financial transactions between us and government have
   improved steadily"

15 "It [IFMS] is helpful and very efficient"


16 "The system is excellent"


17 "We appreciate the installation of IFMS and would like the payment to be in one day"


18 "The new system is good, but can be improved upon"


19 "The system has improved our business dealings with Districts"


20 "It has greatly improved the service providers in terms of cash flows because by the time supplies are
   made funds are already committed. It is highly recommendable."

21 "It [IFMS] has improved our way of receiving money"


22 "It has made life easy for suppliers"


23 "I receive my money within two days"


24 "The network is on and off. It requires serious attention to avoid unnecessary delays in
   payments"

25 "I think it should be rolled to other districts to ease the payments process [in all local
   government]"

26 "(i). We request that contracts are given enough time to comply with the system; (ii) The system has
   sincerely assisted to speed up payments"

27 "Till this date many ministries do not comply with IFMS, like Ministry of Defence pays after 3
   to 4 months after delivery of goods"

28 "Please ensure that there is extensive awareness of this facility [IFMS] to all your service providers"


29 "IFMS has greatly improved the services government provides to the Public"

   "Most government departments are not yet computerized, so manual work still prevails and its
   consequences". Also, there is still a problem of diverting funds from budget lines to areas of
30 officials' interest e.g workshops, trips, etc which leaves service providers suffering from delayed
   payments and in most cases bills are pushed to domestic arrears which take years to be cleared
   causing businesses to close down due to financial crises, caused by these habits."




                                                 28

Part 4: IRR and NPV estimates of the IFMS

The last part sought to establish whether IFMS is a net benefit or net cost project. This part was
basically a quantitative assessment of the performance of the IFMS to determine its Net Present
Value (NPV). A quantitative assessment of the performance of the IFMS at the sites was
undertaken, comparing the performance of the financial management systems before and after
introduction of the IFMS. The assessment was undertaken for two sites, Lira and Jinja Districts.

The pre-IFMS data used in the evaluation was collected from the payment vouchers for January ­
March 2004 at the two sites studied (i.e. Lira and Jinja District Local Governments).

The post-IFMS data was extracted from the IFMS central database at the MFPED Headquarters,
for period January ­ March 2006. Additionally, a practical system walk-through was undertaken
at both sites studied to directly observe how the system practically delivers. Focus group
discussions with the system users and administrators at both sites were also conducted, from
which their (IFMS users) views on the performance of the system were obtained.

Since the results of the evaluation are expected to guide the further rollout of the IFMS in the rest
of the local governments and government agencies, NPV and IRR were computed to estimate the
rather intangible benefits associated with the IFMS. Rule of thumb is if NPV turns out positive at
a social discount rate for Uganda of 12% or IRR estimate of 12% or more, the project should be
encouraged, and vice versa.


Quantitative Assessment to establish whether IFMS is a net benefit or net cost project

Table 9: Cost Benefit Analysis for Lira and Jinja District Local Governments IFMS Sites
(Figures in Billion Ushs)

                                         Lira                                    Jinja
 Year       Fiscal
            Year         Total Costs     Total         Net                        Total       Net
                                        Savings      Saving       Total Costs    Savings     Saving
    1       2004/5          -2.20         0.00        -2.20         -2.20         0.00        -2.20
    2       2005/6          -0.22         0.00        -0.22         -0.22         0.00        -0.22
    3       2006/7          -0.14         2.26        2.12          -0.14         3.12        2.97
    4       2007/8          -0.13         2.37        2.24          -0.12         3.27        3.15
    5       2008/9          -0.12         2.49        2.37          -0.12         3.44        3.32
    6       2009/10         -0.12         2.62        2.49          -0.12         3.61        3.48
    7       2010/11         -0.08         2.75        2.67          -0.08         3.79        3.71
    8       2011/12         -0.21         2.89        2.67          -0.21         3.98        3.76
    9       2012/13         -0.09         3.03        2.94          -0.09         4.18        4.09
    10      2013/14         -0.09         3.18        3.09          -0.09         4.39        4.29
    11      2014/15         -0.10         3.34        3.25          -0.10         4.60        4.51
    12      2015/16         -0.10         3.51        3.41          -0.10         4.84        4.74
    13      2016/17         -0.10         3.68        3.58          -0.10         5.08        4.97
    14      2017/18         -0.11         3.87        3.76          -0.11         5.33        5.22
    15      2018/19         -0.12         4.06        3.94          -0.12         5.60        5.48
    16      2019/20         -0.24         4.26        4.02          -0.25         5.88        5.63
                            NPV Lira at 12% -->      12.51           NPV Jinja at 12% -->   18.32
                            IRR                      61%             IRR                    77%




                                                 29

Based on the assumptions outlined above, a cost-benefit analysis was undertaken and calculated
the project's NPV at the two sites studied. The results show positive NPV and high IRR for
both Lira and Jinja District IFMS sites (Table 9), suggesting that the IFMS sub-projects at
both sites are net benefit investments. A similar outcome is expected to be observed for the
rest of the IFMS sites. Appendix 5 provides a demonstration of how the costs and benefits were
evaluated. The costs and benefits considered in the NPV computations are explained in the
assumption of the Evaluation Design of the full report.

Sensitivity Analysis

Table 10 suggests that even at the worst case scenarios, for instance with no growth rates in the
economy, or with very low money multipliers, NPV for both sites remains positive and IRR fairly
high, suggesting that the investments are quite profitable.

Table 10: Sensitivity Analysis Results (Figures in Billion Ushs)


                                                                    Lira              Jinja
 Variable Calibrations
                                                                 NPV    IRR      NPV        IRR

 Assuming growth rate at 0%                                      9.2    58%      13.7      74%

 Assuming no savings in wages                                    9.1    57%      13.6      74%

 Assuming low money multiplier: 0.1 for Lira in 2004, and 1 for
 Jinja in same period                                            3.1    28%      2.3       27%


 Assuming equipment will be replaced every after 4 years instead
 of 7 years (keeping money multipliers as in row above)          2.9    28%      2.1       26%




                                                   30

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

Task Team members

         Names                       Title               Unit        Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Gaiv Tata              Manager                           FRM Team Leader
Fitz Ford              Consultant                             Planning & Budgeting

Joseph Kizito          Financial Management
                       Specialist                      AFTFM Financial Management

Uche Mbanefo           Consultant                             Financial Management

Nelson Ofwono                                                 Statistics and backup team
                                                              leader
Tim Marchant           Consultant                             Statistics
Deepak Bhatia          Manager                          ISGEG Information Systems
Rogati Kayani          Consultant                             Procurement
Reggie Miller                                                 Information Systems
Donnette Patterson     Task Team Assistant

Joseph Ingram          Consultant                             Program Manager, Global
                                                              Distance Learning

Mehdi Roustayi         Network Information
                       Technology Specialist                  Global Distance Learning

Axel Baurnler          Financial Analyst                      Global Distance Learning

Michael Foley           Consultant                            Distance Learning
                                                              Specialist

Harriet Nannyonjo      Sr. Education Specialist         AFTH1 Global Distance Learning
                                                              Component Manager
Victorio Labite Ocaya   Civil Engineer                  AFTTR Global Distance Learning
Paud Murphy            Senior Education Specialist            Global Distance Learning
Supervision/ICR
Lance Morrell          Lead Operations Officer          AFTU1 Team Leader
Solomon Alemu          Sr Sanitary Engineer             AFTU1 Eng/Procurement

Mary C.K. Bitekerezo   Senior Social Development
                       Spec                             AFTS2

Klaus W. Deininger     Lead Economist                  DECRG
Louis Helling           Consultant                      AFTU1
Agnes Kaye              Program Assistant              AFMUG
Marie Claire Li Tin Yue Program Assistant               AFTU1
Daryoush Kianpour       Senior Information Officer      AFTRL Information Spec.
Mihaly Kopanyi         Senior Infrastructure Specialist SASEI
Rowena J. Martinez      Consultant                     EASUR
Barjor E. Mehta         Sr Urban Spec.                 WBISD Capacity Bldg
Paul Mpuga             Economist                        AFTP2
Peter Murphy            Consultant                      EASPR
Naa Dei Nikoi           Sr Operations Off.              AFTU1



                                            31

Richard Olowo          Sr Procurement Spec.            AFTPC Procurement
Martin Onyach-Olaa     Urban Specialist               AFTU1
Zara Inga Sarzin       E T Consultant                 AFTU1 Urban Devlp

Patrick Piker Umah TeteSr Financial Management
                       Specialist                     AFTFM Financial

Rowena Martinez        Consultant                     AFTU1 Operations Off.

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY96                                                                   4.61
  FY97                                                                 100.36
  FY98                                                                  76.20
  FY99                                                                 114.79
  FY00                                       58                        159.92
  FY01                                                                   0.00
  FY02                                                                   0.66
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
                          Total:             58                        456.54
Supervision/ICR
  FY96                                                                   0.00
  FY97                                                                   0.00
  FY98                                                                   6.21
  FY99                                                                   0.00
  FY00                                         7                        29.12
  FY01                                       23                        103.59
  FY02                                       31                        133.79
  FY03                                       27                        141.92
  FY04                                       40                        180.23
  FY05                                       35                        191.51
  FY06                                       36                        165.22
  FY07                                       15                         67.56
                          Total:            214                      1019.15




                                          32

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Managerial Benefits

The tables below provide at least 21 managerial benefits and a qualitative assessment of the
extent to which these benefits have been realized as a result of using IFMS at the sites where the
system has been introduced. Table 1a presents managerial benefits where a high realization of
the benefits has been observed, whereas Table 1b contains benefits whose realization has been
low to average. In brief, the results show that 62% of the observed managerial benefits have been
highly realized.

Table 1a: Highly Realized Managerial Benefits from using the IFMS


                                                                     Extent to which benefit is realized
       Benefits
                                                                      Nil      Low     Mid        High

   1   Spending within the budget limits is now possible              0%       0%       3%        97%

   2   Budget overruns have largely been minimized                    0%       0%       6%        94%


   3   Secretive transactions are minimized as the system makes
       `public' all activities undertaken and expenditures executed   0%       0%      10%        90%


   4   Processing of releases is now much quicker                     0%       0%      23%        77%


   5   Improved communication services (less travel related costs,
       etc...)                                                        0%       10%     13%        77%


   6   Improved accountability in respect to governance, service
       provision, compliance, etc...                                  0%       3%      20%        77%


   7   Accountability and transparency have increased                 0%       6%      19%        74%


   8   Financial transaction costs and budget execution time have
       relatively reduced                                             0%       13%     13%        73%

       Availability of real time information for planning, budgeting
   9   and management (e.g. shortened budget/reports/procurement      0%       0%      29%        71%
       preparation periods)

  10   Improved efficiency and reliability of follow-up (e.g.
       recovery of arrears, ...)                                      0%       14%     17%        69%


  11   Management decisions are made more efficiently                 0%       3%      29%        68%


  12   There is consistency and coherence in financial management
       (e.g. less duplication of procedures, ...)                     0%       19%     19%        61%


  13   Reduced cost on printing due to use of
       standardized/electronic formats                                3%       17%     20%        60%




                                                    33

Table 1b: Moderately Realized Managerial Benefits from using the IFMS


                                                                           Extent to which benefit is realized
        Benefits
                                                                           Nil       Low        Mid     High

  1     Accurate, reliable and timely financial information is
        available resulting in improved financial reporting                0%        13%        35%     52%


  2     Improved skills and competence base in financial
        management resulting into less outsourcing of consultancies        0%        16%        32%     52%


  3     Improved access to information leading to increased
        business opportunities                                             0%        23%        29%     48%


  4     Late preparation and submission of financial reports is fast
        becoming history                                                   0%        23%        32%     45%


  5     Increased linkages e.g. creation of new service centers for
        training, maintenance, ...                                         0%        32%        32%     35%

  6     Immediate bank reconciliation now a reality                        0%        27%        40%     33%

  7     Increased employment opportunities                                 16%       52%        23%     10%

  8     Improved conditions of service (e.g. budget increments, ...)       3%        48%        42%     06%



Table 1c: Other Identified Managerial Benefits (identified by Respondents while answering a
question that required them to indicate any other benefits realized from their utilization of the
IFMS other than the 21 benefits in Tables 2a&b above).


        Other Managerial Benefits                        Rationalization

  1     Reduced power fluctuations                       As a result of the installation of a stand-by
                                                         Generator at each IFMS site

  2     Improved IT knowledge                            All IFMS users had to be trained in at least basic
                                                         IT skills before they could use the system

  3     Use of harmonized Chart of Accounts              All users have access to the harmonized CoA
        (COA)                                            which has streamlined systems to ensure uniform
                                                         financial reporting
  4     Reduction in number of bank accounts             The system discourages use of multiple bank
                                                         accounts

  5     Reduced bureaucracies                            A great deal of communication is done online
                                                         including purchase and payment approvals. The
                                                         red tape that involves queues to have papers
                                                         endorsed by so and so has been largely shortened.

  6     Reduced financial workload                       Approvals are done online hence there is less
                                                         paper work and appending signatures on
                                                         documents




                                                    34

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                    35

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.      Introduction

Since June 2000, the Government of Uganda has been implementing economic reforms aimed at
enhancing the quantity and quality of public services in Uganda, through the Second Economic
and Financial Management Project (EFMPII). The EFMPII was a successor project to EFMPI.
EFMPI focused on technical and institutional capacity building for major institutions in the
economic and financial management--which included the Ministry of Finance, Planning,
Treasury, Statistics and UCS departments, the Auditor General and URA Offices. EFMPII
equally focused on technical and institutional capacity building however with a strong bias in
public financial management and planning and budgeting.          EFMPII was divided into four
components namely Planning and Budgeting, Financial Management, Statistics, and Distance
Learning Centre. The International Development Association (IDA), Netherlands Government,
Nordic Development Fund (NDF), and the Department for International Development (DFID)
were the co-financiers of EFMPII together with Government of Uganda. The project was
implemented over a period of 6½ years (June 2000 ­ December 2006).

2.      Background to the EFMPII

The EFMPII was born in the context of Government's commitments to fiscal improvements and
poverty eradication.     After registering considerable success in macro-economic reform and
structural reform, (programs implemented since 1987 with the support of the World Bank, the
IMF and other multi-lateral and bilateral donors), Government still faced major challenges related
to longer-term fiscal sustainability; improvements in public expenditure management and the
sustained effort to eradicate poverty. In particular, weaknesses in processes and systems for
service delivery still posed a major challenge to Government in the implementation of the Poverty
Eradication Action Plan. The major weaknesses in the public expenditure management which the
project focused on include:

    a) Weaknesses in process and systems for public expenditure management
    b) Budget indiscipline
    c) Weak monitoring and evaluation of public programs and service delivery
    d) Weaknesses in accountability and transparency in public expenditure
    e) The incomplete fiscal decentralization process
    f) Poor budgeting capacity particularly in Local Governments
    g) Outdated legislation for public expenditure management
    h) Weak linkages between national and local budget and financial management processes
    i) Capacity weaknesses (particularly skills) in institutions for planning and budgeting and
        for financial management
    j) Lack of computerized systems for financial management throughout government.

3.      Project Objective

The project development objective was to improve the effectiveness of public expenditure
management processes (i.e. the Government planning/budgeting, financial management and
monitoring/evaluation processes). Appendix A contains the set of key performance indicators
used to monitor progress towards achievement of the project development objective.



                                                 36

4.      Project Components and Objectives

The project was divided into four components. Appendix B contains the key tasks/activities
implemented under each component: The components were:

    Planning and Budgeting--to improve efficiency and effectiveness of planning and
    budgeting processes for central and local governments.

    Financial Management--to strengthen financial management in order to achieve more
    timely, transparent and accurate financial and accounting information for both local and
    central government.

    Statistics Component--to improve capacity to monitor development performance, public
    service delivery and impact of public expenditure on poverty trends.

    Distance Learning Center--to test the effectiveness and sustainability of a distance learning
    centre (as part of a global knowledge sharing program) in supporting capacity building
    programs for the public and private sector.

5.      Project Management

Component Managers led the implementation of their respective activities.              A Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) was formed to support the implementing agencies in project
management and administration, and also to liaise between the components and other
stakeholders. The PCU was attached to the planning and budgeting component. It comprised of
a lean team of four consultants (project coordinator, procurement specialist, finance manager,
monitoring and evaluation officer), twelve support staff (two administrative assistant/secretaries,
three accounts assistants, and two assistant procurement officers, three drivers and two office
attendants). The PCU was answerable to the Project Technical Committee (PTC) chaired by the
GoU Task Manager (Deputy Secretary to the Treasury). The PTC met quarterly to review the
project's activities including approving component work plans and budgets. The PTC was
answerable to the Public Expenditure Management Committee (PEMCOM) which served as the
project's steering committee.

6.      Project Cost and Financing

Tables 1 and 2 provide a summary of the project's costs and financing respectively, showing
budget and actual expenditure performance during the entire project life. The figures are still
provisional. Table 1 shows actual expenditure to have exceeded budget by 0.3%. The exchange
rate gains between SDR and US dollars were used to finance the extra budget costs. Table 2
shows that IDA had the highest contribution of 60% to total project financing followed by GoU's
27% contribution. The NDF, RNE and DFID contributed 6%, 4% and 3% respectively.




                                               37

Table 1: Project Cost by Component (in US Dollars)


        Component/Cost Centre          Budget        Actual     Actual versus    Percent share of total
                                                                   Budget        (based on actual exp)

1.  Planning and Budgeting               8.1           7.8         96.3%                 11%

2.  Financial Management                39.7          40.6         102.3%                57%

3.  Statistics                          14.2          14.1         99.3%                 20%

4.  Distance Learning Component          4.2           4.0         95.2%                 6%

5.  Project Management                   3.1           3.0         96.8%                 4%

6.  Project Preparation Facility         1.3           1.3         100.0%                2%

    Total                               70.6          70.9         100.3%               100%
Source: Project Office


Table 2: Project Financing by Component and Source of Financing (in US Dollars)

                    Budget                                   Actual
ID   Comp           IDA    NDF    RNE    FAP   GoU     Total IDA     NDF    RNE     FAP    GoU     Total
1    P&B            5.0    2.3    -      -     0.8     8.1   4.5     2.3    -       -      1.0     7.8
2    FM             31.2   -      2.7    2.5   3.3     39.7  25.1    -      2.7     2.3    10.5    40.6
3    Statistics     6.6    2.2    -      -     5.5     14.2  6.5     2.2    -       -      5.4     14.1
4    GDLC           2.9    -      -      -     1.3     4.2   2.9     -      -       -      1.1     4.0
5    PO             2.1    -      -      -     1.1     3.1   2.1     -      -       -      1.0     3.0
6    PPF            1.2    -      -      -     -       1.2   1.2     -      -       -      -       1.2
     Total          48.9   4.5    2.7    2.5   11.9    70.6  42.4    4.5    2.7     2.3    18.9    70.9
   % of Total       69%    6%     4%     4%    17%     -     60%     6%     4%      3%     27%     -
Source: EFMPII Budget Tables


7.       Project Results

The project has by and large achieved its major objective. The following are the broad results
achieved, in summary:

   i)       Trained 438 staff from central government and Parliament in planning and budgeting
            processes, leading to improved capacity for planning and budgeting at the LG level and
            more skills in formulating budgets and linking budgets at local and national levels.

   ii)      Installed an Information Sharing Network for MoFPED resulting into increased internal
            communication, online availability of financial and economic information, and faster
            decision making.

   iii)     Updated tax policy framework and selected tax laws (stamp duty, gaming and casino)
            to provide a better tax management environment. Twenty one (21) GoU staff were
            trained in basic tax revenue forecasting and analysis, five (5) in tax policy formulation
            and analysis, and four (4) in in-depth tax revenue forecasting and analysis.




                                                  38

  iv)    Identified new Non-Tax Revenue sources and recommended upward revision of
         selected rates, expected to generate at least Ushs 11.4 billion of revenue per year.

  v)     Automated accounting processes at 18 government ministries and 11 local governments
         using the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS), resulting in: increased
         accountability and transparency at the 31 sites where the IFMS has been implemented;
         improved financial reporting and accountability due to availability of accurate, reliable
         and timely financial information; reduction of budget overruns; minimization of
         secretive transactions, as the system makes `public' all key activities and expenditures;
         Improved skills and competence base in financial management resulting into less
         outsourcing of consultancies; Improved access to information leading to increased
         business opportunities; Increased linkages e.g. creation of new service centers for
         training, maintenance; immediate bank reconciliation; increased employment
         opportunities; payment processes that used to take an average of 35/45 days to
         complete now takes an average of two to five days because of the IFMS.

  vi)    Increased the number of qualified accountants and accounting technicians in
         government (both local and central) from 12 in 1999 to 421 by end June 2006; as a
         result, there has been a reduction in objections to financial reports submitted to the
         Accountant General's Office.

  vii)   Harmonized financial classification (chart of accounts) between central and local
         government, leading to better financial planning, tracking, accounting and reporting.

  viii) Supported enactment of the Public Finance and Accountability Act of 2003, providing
         better financial management in line with International Accounting Practices.

  ix)    Established a computerized public debt management system providing more accurate
         and timely reports on Uganda's debt portfolio.

  x)     Increased access to statistical information via relocation of the Uganda Bureau of
         Statistics from Entebbe to Kampala.

  xi)    Established a Global Distance Learning Center supporting capacity building programs
         so far accessed by over 12,000 individuals from government institutions, NGOs, civil
         society, academia and the private sector in addition to generation of at least
         USD840,000 during the five year implementation period for the component.

8.     Major Implementation Issues Encountered

  a) Several technical and managerial changes were effected during the planning and
       implementation phases which resulted in the following:

       i) Substantial pressure was placed on component budgets consequently budget
           supplements had to be sought from donors and GoU. The process of securing
           additional funding took long and this caused some delays in completion of the
           component activities. Case in point is the construction of the disaster recovery centre
           that delayed for over a year, and construction of the Statistics House whose defects
           liability period extended beyond the project closing date.




                                               39

       ii) Numerous amendments in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)--which
           was changed eight times e.g. to reflect additional financing to activities for
           components two and three; extension of the project closing date; adjustment of
           key performance indicators in respect of tasks that were taken over by other
           donor-funded programs.

b) GoU roles and responsibilities were not clearly divided and agreed upon for the
   implementation of various component activities, which created issues like delays in
   implementation of particular activities, less availability of GoU staff to support
   implementation of project activities, and in some instances inability to accomplish
   implementation of some activities as per plan.

c) The Distance Learning Component was initiated and formulated by the World Bank and
   appended to EFMPII during negotiations. There was no sufficient design on part of the
   Borrower. The concept of distance learning was not well understood by the Borrower.
   This has affected the implementation and will certainly have an impact on the
   sustainability

d) Replacement of videoconferencing equipment delayed by nine months; the replacement
   of the equipment was recommended in the business strategy and plan delivered in
   January 2004. The process to procure the equipment started forthwith in January 2004.
   The World Bank suggested M/s CIBER to supply the equipment and delivery was
   expected to be achieved in three months time. The contract between GoU and M/s
   CIBER was signed on August 1, 2004. The equipment was delivered in July 2005.
   Partly as a result of this delay, the break even point/date for GDLC to reach its
   sustainability had to be extended from end 2006 to end 2008. This factor was generally
   subject to the control of the World Bank.

e) Renovation of the computer labs and the videoconferencing room also delayed by
   thirteen months; The renovation was meant to precede the delivery of the new
   videoconferencing equipment however the selection process for the contractor to do the
   reworks delayed for thirteen months, further denting the plans for GDLC to reach its
   sustainability by end 2006. This factor was generally subject to the control of the
   UMI/GDLC.

f) Restrictions on the use of the GDLC for commercial purposes played a negative role on
   implementation of the component. While it had been agreed with the World Bank that
   the use of the GDLC facility would be restricted to "development activities" in
   accordance with WBI guidelines, critical need arose for the GDLC to improve its revenue
   generation in order to move faster towards sustainability. However, this could only be
   achieved by expanding the clientele to include the "commercially oriented development
   partners" in the private sector, in addition to the public sector, civil society and NGOs.
   This issue was discussed during the Jan/Feb 2005 review missions where it was observed
   that the said restriction could have been a subject of misinterpretation. Subsequently, a
   World Bank Technical Team visited the GDLC in November 2005 and recommended on
   the pragmatic management of the center vis-à-vis the WBI restrictions. Notwithstanding,
   the said restrictions on the use of the GDLC have had far reaching implications on the
   management and profitability of the GDLC.




                                           40

9.       Project Sustainability

There is a reasonable probability of sustainability for the financial management and statistics
components. The sustainability for the Distance Learning Centre and the Planning and Budgeting
components remains a concern. Each component's sustainability issues are assessed in the table
below:


 Component       Observation

 Planning and    There remains concern over sustainability of some key activities; in particular, activities
 Budgeting       that relate to use and support of IT where GoU still heavily depends on external
                 funding; training of staff; budget transparency, operationalization of the Resource
                 Center; and management of Non Tax Revenue.

 Financial       Sustainability of some activities implemented under the component is to a reasonable
 Management      extent, certain. So far GoU has committed itself to financing the necessary budgets to
                 ensure sustainability of the IFMS, at sites where the system has been installed.

                 Continued donor support is certainly welcome for the further rollout of the system as
                 appropriate. Further support may also be needed for activities like continued training of
                 staff.

 Statistics      Sustainability of activities implemented under the component is to a reasonable extent,
                 certain. Substantial savings are expected to be realized following the plugging of
                 various cost centers where UBOS used to spend money. For instance, savings from
                 renting of space for office and storage purposes at Entebbe and Industrial Area; savings
                 from consultancy fees that used to be paid in respect of GIS products and services
                 imported from Kenya. Besides, the Statistics House has a self financing Conference
                 Hall expected to raise at least 20M/- in non tax revenue per annum.

                 However, interventions may still be needed especially for activities to do with
                 surveys--because of the heavy investment involved vis-à-vis the limited budget support
                 from GoU, and also for staff training in light of the inevitable likelihood of staff attrition
                 in key/technical areas.

 Distance        The component's sustainability is uncertain--GDLC could only cover roughly 60% of
 Learning        its operating costs by end of the project life. The business strategy and plan developed
 Center          by the Danish Management Group had projected the Center to reach sustainability by
                 end 2006. The delays that came into the implementation process of the business
                 strategy and plan exacerbated the Center's efforts to reach sustainability as earlier
                 anticipated in the business strategy. On the other hand, it has argued that the major
                 reason for failure of the GDLC to reach sustainability was the restrictions imposed on
                 the Centre by the GDLN not to use the GDLC facilities for commercial activities yet
                 that is where GDLC would have gained more profit.

                 In order to reach sustainability, it was proposed that the GDLC be repositioned within
                 the UMI structure, with a view to transforming the center into a business center under its
                 own head, but formally linked to the ICT department as a complementary unit. On the
                 `GDLN restrictions' issue, a World Bank Technical Team visited the GDLC in
                 November 2005 and recommended on the pragmatic management of the center vis-à-vis
                 the WBI restrictions




                                                    41

10.    Key Lessons Learnt

   i)   Detailed planning and budgeting of activities should never be taken too lightly, so as to
        avoid delays and frequent changes during activity implementation. Case in point is the
        numerous addenda that applied to almost every major contract undertaken; or the delay
        in procurement/delivery of furniture for the Statistics House mainly caused by
        numerous changes and new needs identified in the course of the procurement process.

   ii)  Implementing Agencies roles and responsibilities in the implementation of project
        activities need to be clearly divided and agreed upon at project inception, and
        continually reviewed and updated during implementation. Fir instance, MFPED was
        expected to ensure participation of public, private sectors as well as civil society in
        project monitoring and training activities. While MFPED actively took part in the
        monitoring of activities of the GDLC through the EFMPII, as well as recommending
        GDLC as venue for in-country training programs for the MFPED, very little was done
        [on part of MFPED] in the area of mobilizing the civil society and public and private
        sectors to support the GDLC. Consequently there was less than expected mobilization
        and participation of the public and private sector and civil society in the GDLC
        activities. Reflecting on this lesson, a role such as mobilization should preferably and
        primarily be left to the implementing agency.

   iii) Decentralization of the project accounting function to components without close
        supervision may prove counterproductive. A case in point relates to the different
        reporting and accounting formats and packages used by UBOS and the Project Office
        which made consolidation and reconciliation of accounts a bit of challenge, leading to
        delays in completion of audits for the first four years of the project.

   iv)  Project formulation and design must be championed by the Borrower and properly
        aligned to the Borrower's objectives. For instance, in the case of the Uganda GDLC,
        the UMI was only identified and confirmed as a suitable location for the center. The
        concept of distance learning was no well conceptualized by the Borrower. Furthermore,
        the separation of management structures of the GDLC and UMI created a lack of close
        ownership of the center on part of the UMI. Consequently the implementation and
        sustainability of the center were affected.

   v)   Use of index/composite key performance indicators can be a critical barrier to project
        effectiveness. Indicators need to be specific to a certain extent, preferably derived
        directly from the results framework. For instance, the KPI on `reducing domestic
        arrears as measured by outstanding stock of arrears' portrayed a negative achievement
        for the component, yet it has no direct link and may not be easily attached to any of the
        activities that were implemented. Another case in point was the capacity utilization
        performance indicator for the GDLC--basically defined as a ratio of number of
        participant days of training at the center over the number of days planned. This
        indicator ended up as a total mismatch against the revenue indicator. The [capacity
        utilization] indicator in most cases painted a positive picture as far as GDLC operations
        were concerned, yet the revenue indicator in most cases was performing far below
        target, contrary to what should have been expected given the positive picture portrayed
        by the capacity utilization indicator. This issue was discussed and it was agreed to
        revise the capacity utilization indicator from `participant days' to `participant hours'
        however this did not help much.



                                              42

    vi)    Absence of significant pay reforms may not be a very significant factor in sustainability
           of capacity building efforts. Case in point is the interest expressed by the IFMS
           Accountants and their eventual crossing from the project to the mainstream government
           where they are expected to earn less than half of what they were earning in the project.
           The eight IFMS Accountants that crossed to GoU cited reasons to do with job security,
           career development and less stress. However it is assumed that the various operational
           allowances granted to GoU staff may have been one of the motivations for crossing to
           GoU.

    vii)   Implementation of information systems is not usually unsuccessful as widely believed.
           Both the IFMS and ISN were implemented successfully and satisfactorily.              An
           economic analysis of the IFMS at two sample sites indicated a positive net present
           value and high internal rate of return.

    viii) During project inception for the Distance Learning Center it was assumed that students
           would be willing to pay for their education which would make the center sustainable
           over time. While this assumption was valid, it turned out that most students in Uganda
           are only willing to pay for long courses where they acquire diploma or degree
           certificates, however the majority of courses run at the GDLC were of short term nature
           and [WBI] supply driven.

    ix)    Procurement tied to specific region of lender agency constraints competition and
           quality of services. This was the experience for some of the NDF funded procurement.
           In some of the cases, this caused delays to implementation. Funding should not be tied
           in this way.

    x)     Continuity of management teams, both on the Government and Donor side is critical in
           supervision and ensuring the project stayed on course in terms of overall objectives.
           On the GoU side, there were minimal changes to the management. On the Donor side,
           after initial changes at inception, a single team was responsible for supervision and
           management throughout the implementation. There were significant changes in the
           teams from both DfID and NDF but this was mitigated by continuity in the lead donor
           management team.

11.      Bank/Lender's Performance

Design
While the Bank performed very well in working together with Government in the identification of
key objectivities of the Project which fitted very well in the overall public financial management
reform program, the design itself fell short in (a) realism in terms of time allocated for
implementation, (b) identifying critical resource demands and budgets in the implementation of
Integrated financial management systems, (c) identifying suitable KPIs in some of the cases, and
(d) in limiting the complexity particularly in terms of activities and contracts. These factors
created significant demands and changes during implementation

Implementation
The Bank did very well in reviewing and redressing many of the weakness in the design by
engaging borrower closely and focusing on the objectives, of the project. In particular, the Bank
(a) participated in reviews and provided flexibility in revising resources and time requirements
for the project, (b) provided additional expertise, particularly in the case of the IFMS to review
and advise on implementation, (c) was readily available to consultation on operations


                                                  43

(procurement, financial administration) and in many cases, this Bank resource helped the
implementation, and (d) responded well on amendments of DCA requested by the Borrower to
enable useful adjustments and conclusive implementation

However, the borrower was unable to resolve key conditions that limited the sustainability of the
Distance Learning Centre. This was attributed to the constraints resulting from the established
objectives the center

Reviews and Supervision
Bank supervision reviews were always adequately resourced and took time regularly. Reviews
helped to keep the project focused while allowing for incremental adjustments to remain relevant
to the objectives. Reports (Aide Memoir) resulting from these reviews were always shared with
other Development Partners on the project

One management team from IDA oversaw the supervision and management throughout
implementation. This provided a great deal of continuity. There was less continuity among the
DfID and NDF teams.

Procurement
Overall, the Bank met the objectives for procurement supervision. The major issue was that the
project implemented an overly large number of contracts (over 200) most of which required prior
review). Response was often timely.

NDF provided increased flexibility and understanding in relaxing restrictions on tied procurement
funding.

Financial Management
Bank generally responded well in the financial management however, there were some areas that
hindered the smooth implementation:

    a) Sometimes, the cash flow was constrained by the slow turn-around on replenishments or
        that the speed of implementation of activities required a larger ceiling of the project
        account given that the project was financed based on ...

    b) the switch between the main and supplementary credit was not adequately recorded
        leading to a huge backlog and affecting the

12.     Borrower's Performance

Design
The Borrower participated well in the design of the project. However, due to shortfalls in design
capacity, the design suffered lapses as outlined under 11 above.

Implementation
Overall, the Borrower responded well to the challenges of implementation by providing a good
degree of ownership, leadership and commitment. The Borrower also provided the required,
structures and staff resources particularly for the most completed activities including the IFMS.
These resources were complemented by consultants for reasons that were highlighted in the
design.




                                                 44

Procurement
The Borrower met the requirement for delivery of procurement for most of the contracts. The
underestimation of the capacity required for procurement administration, in view of the large
number of contracts, and competence levels led to delays and slippages in some cases.

Financial Management
The Borrower performed very well in meeting their share of budgetary requirements and
disbursing timely. Resulting from adjustments to project activities, the Borrower budgetary
requirements more than doubled.         The borrower also performed well in the financial
administration. At some point, lapses in capacity created delays in payments to suppliers and
service providers but this was addressed.

13.     Conclusion

The development objective of EFMPII was to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of public
expenditure with the goal of enhancing the quantity and quality of public services delivered to the
people of Uganda. The various achievements highlighted in the report clearly show that the
development objective has been achieved to a considerable extent. In particular the project
provided technical assistance and training to improve efficiency and effectiveness of planning and
budgeting processes for central and local governments; built capacity and undertook procurement
to strengthen financial management processes to achieve more timely, transparent and accurate
financial accounting information for both local and central governments; assisted in improving
capacity to manage national statistics, undertake national surveys and collect, process, store, and
disseminate statistical information; and supported the establishment of a global distance learning
centre as one way of supporting capacity building programs for the public and private sectors. It
is important that sustainability of the project achievements should be given high priority
especially areas like rolling out the IFMS where further assistance is still needed and welcome.
The main challenges left after the project include:

-   the need to continuity of PFM reforms, expand and deepen, and improve coordination across
    Government in a form that will maximise the impact and sustainability

-   the need to expand and deepen of the IFMS beyond the 33 agencies (including 22 ministries
    and 11 LGs) including a focus on revenue management systems for local government; Of
    interest should be to look at the broader improvements in the PFM systems rather than
    only IFMS.




                                                45

Appendix A. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)

                                                                                                      Indicator at
 Key Performance Indicator                                Indicator at the     Target (end of
                                                           start (baseline)        project)        project end (as at
                                                                                                       30/06/06)

                                         Component 1: Planning and Budgeting

 Maintaining supplementaries within 3 percent of
 Government funded budget                                         3%                  3%                4.17%

 Reducing domestic arrears as measured by
 outstanding stock (in billion Shs)                            118.2B/-             30B/-              172.8B/-

 Reduction in deviation between revenue forecast and
 revenue collection                                             11.1%                ±5%                +0.13%

                                          Component 2: Financial Management

 Timeliness in preparation of central government
 financial statements as measured by reduction in             5 months             3 months            3 months
 completion time for audit

 Continuous improvement in compliance with the nine       Late submissions                         Submitted within

 months statutory period within which audited              of statements to     Submit within       statutory period

 financial statements must be submitted to Parliament        parliament        statutory period     except for local
                                                                                                     governments
 Online availability of financial information through
 the integrated financial management systems for an         Nil agencies          30 MDAs              31 MDAs
 increasing number of agencies
 Continuous improvement in the number of
 accountants in government with professional                      12                 344                  421
 accounting qualifications
 Continuous improvement in the percentage of
 accounting officers with audit committees after the                                                 Indicator was

 new Public Finance and Accountability Act comes                  Nil                50%             dropped from

 into effect                                                                                             DCA

                                                 Component 3: Statistics

 More timely publicity of statistical survey results as
 measured by reducing period between end of work to         9-12 months        Not more than 6        5-73 months
 dissemination                                                                     months

 Increased access to statistical data by users measured
 by increasing numbers of channels for statistical          Two channels        Four channels        Five channels
 dissemination

                                        Component 4: Distance Learning Center

 Capacity utilization of the GDLC facility                       34%                73.3%                 98%

 Revenue from GDLC operations as a percentage of
 operating costs                                                 20%               100.85%                60%




3It was the release of UNHSIII report that delayed by one month. The report was completed in time on part of the
UBOS, however there came in a requirement for an independent body (EPRC) to validate the poverty numbers before
release of the report. The contract with EPRC was signed on October 6, 2006 while the report had been scheduled to
be released by end September 2006. The validation exercise lasted 30 consultancy days.




                                                        46

Appendix B. Key Implementation Indicators/Tasks


ID   Threshold Indicator/Task                                                                 Completed
                                                                                              (Yes/No)

I    Planning and Budgeting Component
1    Undertake study to improve Non Tax Revenue                                                  Yes
2    Undertake studies to strengthen tax policy and revenue forecasting and revise tax laws      Yes
3    Establish MFPED communication network (LAN/Internet)                                        Yes
4    Consultancy support to macroeconomic management                                             Yes
5    Undertake TNA in area of planning and budgeting in MFPED                                    Yes
6    Train staff to improve planning and budget skills in line with TNA                          Yes
7    Develop a MFPED communication plan                                                          Yes
8    Implementation of communication plan                                                        Yes
9    Develop MFPED media strategy via technical assistance in communication                      Yes
10   Provide support to budget consultation process                                              Yes
11   Upgrade MFPED Resource Center                                                                No
12   Review and consolidate planning and budgeting manuals and guidelines                        Yes
13   Disseminate prepared manuals and train staff in application of manuals                   Yes (partial)
14   Provide support for review and establishment of capacity mechanisms in LG planning          Yes
     and budgeting process
15   Provide support to the implementation of FDS from the national perspective and               No
     implementation of planning and budgeting capacity improvement in LG
16   Provide support to outreach activities to develop LG budget framework papers (BFPs)         Yes
17   Undertake capacity assessment survey for Parliament                                         Yes
18   Implement capacity building plan for Parliament                                             Yes
19   Support to implementation of PMA                                                            Yes
20   Advisory support to MFPED Minister's office                                                 Yes
21   Finance recurrent costs for planning and budgeting component                                Yes

II   Financial Management

1    Hire Expatriate Staff/Consultants to support implementation of financial management         Yes
     reforms
2    Improve external debt management system (procure and install DMFAS and train staff)         Yes
3    Implement accounting skills development/training program                                 Yes (partial)
4    Implement other capacity building program in AGO                                            Yes
5    Finance operational costs
6    Create a new UCS agency                                                                  Yes (partial)
7    Build capacity at UCS aimed at supporting IFMS                                              Yes
8    Provide IT support to the implementation of IFMS (Data Center)                              Yes
9    Develop manuals and guidelines for financial and value for money audits                     Yes
10   Interface expenditure management system and OAG's systems                                   Yes
11   Hire 2 professional auditors                                                                Yes
12   Build capacity in OAG (equipment, audit and accounting training)                         Yes (partial)
13   Provide support to OAG's audit strategy for local governments                               Yes
14   Finance operational costs for OAG                                                           Yes
15   Undertake IFMS pilot/rollout site preparation                                               Yes
16   Procure/install/maintain IFMS solution at pilot/rollout sites                               Yes
17   Finance IFMS implementation/recurrent costs                                                 Yes
18   Develop local government revenue module (LGRM)                                               No
19   Develop/support IFMS disaster recovery plan                                                 Yes
20   Improve legal and institutional framework for financial management (PFAA 2003)              Yes
21   Strengthen internal audit and inspection functions of central government                 Yes (partial)



                                                  47

ID  Threshold Indicator/Task                                                               Completed
                                                                                           (Yes/No)
22  Strengthen internal audit and inspection of central government payroll and pensions    Yes (partial)
23  Increase public participation in financial management and accountability processes         No
24  Create and institutionalize an association of accounting technicians                      Yes
25  Develop performance indicators for control and management of public resources          Yes (partial)
26  Strengthen audit follow up at central government and Parliament                        Yes (partial)
27  Provide support to Accountant General to eliminate accounting backlogs and keep work      Yes
    up-to-date

III Statistics Component

1   Relocate UBOS from Entebbe to Kampala                                                     Yes
2   Undertake TNA for UBOS HR                                                                 Yes
3   Undertake Human Resource Development for UBOS in line with TNA                            Yes
4   Provide technical support to population and social statistics                             Yes
5   Develop M&E Standards for data collection procedures, instruments and methods             Yes
6   Develop an IT Strategy for UBOS                                                           Yes
7   Review and improve data collection systems (GIS)                                          Yes
8   Conduct two National Service Delivery Surveys (NSDS)                                   Yes (partial)
9   Conduct two National Household Surveys                                                    Yes
10  Install a LAN at the Statistics House                                                     Yes
11  Procure new furniture for the Statistics House                                         Yes (partial)

IV  Global Distance Learning Center

1   Construction of GDLC buildings                                                            Yes
2   Procurement and installation of distance learning equipment                               Yes
3   Replacement of old computers and e-learning equipment                                     Yes
4   Undertake market study for training needs                                                 Yes
5   Hire course facilitators and moderators                                                   Yes
6   Development of course content                                                             Yes
7   Impact assessment study                                                                   Yes
8   Develop, adopt and install an accounting system for the centre                            Yes
9   Build capacity at GDLC (staff training, other equipment)                                  Yes
10  Production of a GDLC business strategy and plan                                           Yes
11  Implementation of Business Strategy                                                    Yes (partial)




                                                  48

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments from NDF were received and incorporated in the text but have not submitted a stand-
alone report.




                                         49

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents



a.  EFMP II PAD.

b.  EFMP II Mission Aide Memoires.

c.  EFMP II ISRs.

d.  EFMP II Development Agreement Dated December 22, 1999.

e.  EFMP I ICR (Credit 2418 ­ UG); June 30, 1999.

f.  GoU Draft Implementation Completion Report: EFMP II Planning and Budgeting
    Component, November 28, 2006.

g.  GoU Draft Implementation Completion Report : EFMP II Financial Management
    Component, December 17, 2006.

h.  GoU Draft Implementation Completion Report: EFMP II Statistics Component, December
    5, 2006.

i.  GoU Draft Implementation Completion Report: EFMP II Distance Learning Centre, April 7,
    2006.

j.  Ephrem Asebe (January 12, 2006) Evaluation Report: The Integrated Financial
    Management System (IFMS) in Uganda. (Prepared for Ministry of Finance, Planning and
    Economic Development (MoFPED) and the World Bank).

k.  MoFPED (December 2003), Revised Project Implementation Manual June 2000 - 2005.

l.  MoFPED (March 2006), Project proposal for Financial Management and Accountability
    Project (FINMAP) 2005/6 ­ 2009/10.

m.  MoFPED (February 2006), Integrated Financial Management Systems ­ Strategy for IFMS
    Sustainability.

n.  Oxford Policy Management (October 2002), Uganda: Second Economic and Financial
    Management Program: Final Report on Mid term review Exercise.

o.  Oxford Policy Management (September 2002), Uganda: Second Economic and Financial
    Management Program: Technical Assessment Report of Mid Term Review Exercise.




                                         50

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 35523

                                                                                                                                                                                    UGANDA
                                                                                                                                               SECOND ECONOMIC AND
                                                                                                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                                          PROJECT DISTRICTS                                                                                                                     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

                   UGANDA                                                                                                 DISTRICT CAPITALS                                                                                                                     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES APPROVED BY
                                                                                                                          DISTRICT CAPITALS APPROVED BY                                                                                                         CABINET AND PARLIAMENT,
                                                                                                                          CABINET AND PARLIAMENT,                                                                                                               EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2006
                                                                                                                          EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2006                                                                                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                          RIVERS                                                                                                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS                                                                                            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                          RAILROADS                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                     30°E                                                                                       32°E                                                                                                                 34°E
                                           0             25      50         75         100 Kilometers                                          S U D A N

                                           0                   25             50               75 Miles                                 To
                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                       Juba
                                                                                                                                       Juba
                                                                                  To
                                                                                  To
 4°N                                                                            Faradje
                                                                                Faradje                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4°N



                                                                                                                        MoyoMoyo
                                                                                              YUMBE
                                                                                              YUMBE                                                                                                                                              KAABONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KAABONG                                     K E N Y A
                                                                       KOBOKO
                                                                       KOBOKO                     Yumbe  umbe                                                        KITGUM
                                                                                                                                                                     KITGUM                                                                      KaabongKaabong
                                                                      KobokoKoboko                                         AdjumaniAdjumani                                   KitgumKitgum
                                                                     Maracha
                                                                     Maracha                                     MOYO
                                                                              MARACHA
                                                                              MARACHA                            Nile                                                                                                                KOTIDO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KOTIDO
                                                                                  AruaArua                           ADJUMANI                                                       PADER
                                                                                                                                                                                      ADER             Va l l e y                                                      KotidoKotido                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lodwar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lodwar
                                                                                       ARUA
                                                                                       ARUA                Albert                   KilakKilak GULU
                                                                                                                                               GULU             Achwa                R i f t                                    ABIM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ABIM                         Okok
                                                                                              Ora                                                     GuluGulu
                                                                                                                     AMURUAMURU                               G r e a t                                                            Abim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Abim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MorotoMoroto
               DEM. REP.
               DEM. REP                                                        NebbiNebbi
                                                                                             NEBBI
                                                                                             NEBBI                       Nile                         OYAMOYAM                              LIRA
                                                                                                                                                                                            LIRA                                                                  Lochoman
             OF CONGO
             OF CONGO                                                                                            Victoria
                                                                                                                                                       Oyam
                                                                                                                                                       Oyam                        LiraLira                                                                        MOROTO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MOROTO
                                                                                                          Bulisa
                                                                                                          Bulisa                                                                                                   AMURIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AMURIA
                                                                                                                                                                APAC
                                                                                                                                                                APAC                                                                               KATAKWI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KA AKWI
 2°N                                                                                                                                                            ApacApac          DOKOLO
                                                                                                                                                                                  DOKOLO                                        AmuriaAmuria         KatakwiKatakwi                   NakapiripiritNakapiripirit         2°N
                                                        To
                                                        To                                      BULISA
                                                                                                BULISA                  MASINDI
                                                                                                                        MASINDI                         Lake                         DokoloDokolo
                                                       Beni
                                                       Beni                                                                                            Kwania                                KaberamaidoKaberamaido                                 Lake                      NAKAPIRIPIRIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NAKAPIRIPIRIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lake
                                                                               AlbertHoima                                                                                                                                                        Salisbury
                                                                                                                         MasindiMasindi                       AMOLATAR KABERA-
                                                                                                                                                              AMOLA                                                                                                   Opeta
                                                                                                                                                                                   KABERA-
                                                                                                                                                              AmolatarAmolatar                              SorotiSoroti                                                           Siti
                                                                                                                                                                                    MAIDO
                                                                                                                                                                                    MAIDO              SOROTI
                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOROTI                                                KumiKumi                KAPCHORW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KAPCHORWA
                                                                                             Hoima                                                                 Lake Kyoga
                                                                      Lake                                                                                                                                                          KUMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KUMI                                              KapchorwaKapchorwa
                                                                                       HOIMA
                                                                                       HOIMA                      Kafu                   NAKASONGO
                                                                                                                                          NakasongolaNakasongola L                                                                                                                          BUKWO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BUKWO
                                                                                                                                                                  A                                                PALLISA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALLISA                                                    SironkoSironko
                                                                           Nkusi                                                                                                     KAMULI
                                                                                                                                                                                     KAMULI                                          PallisaPallisa                                                    BukwoBukwo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SIRONKOSIRONKO
                                                                                                                 KIBOGA
                                                                                                                 KIBOGA         NAKASEKE
                                                                                                                                NAKASEKE                                                               KALIRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                       KALIRO                                    BudakaBudaka           MbaleMbale    Mt. Elgon (4321 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mt. Elgon (4321 m)
                To
                To                                                              KIBAALE
                                                                                KIBAALE                                  KibogaKiboga                                     KAYUNG          KamuliKamuli             NAMU-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NAMU-
               Bunia
               Bunia          BUNDIBUGYOBUNDIBUGYO                                                                                                                             GAA                     KaliroKaliro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TUMBA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TUMBA                                                                       MANAPWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MANAPW
                                                     For
                                                     Fort                                    KibaleKibale                                                     LuweroLuwero                                                                        Butaleja
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Butaleja              BubuloBubulo                    BUDAKA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BUDAKA
                      BundibugyoBundibugyo PortalPortal    ROLE                                                                        NakasekeNakaseke LUWERO
                                                                                                                                                        LUWERO                                                                   Busiki
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Busiki
                                                                       KyenjojoKyenjojo                                                                                            KayungaKayunga IGANGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                      IGANGA                                                                                 MBALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MBALE
                                                                                                          MubendeMubende                                                                                                                             Tororo      roro                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                           JINJA
                                                                                                                                                                                           JINJA                                                 BugiriBugiri                         TORORO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TORORO                     Nakuru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Nakuru
                                                                                                                                MITYANA                akiso                                                IgangaIganga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BusiaBusia       BUTALEJA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUTALEJA
            Margherita Peak
            Margherita Peak                                                                                                             MityanaMityana                    Mukono
                                                                                                                                                                          Mukono                 JinjaJinja
                 (5110 m)
                 (5110 m)                              KABAKAMWENGE  KYENJOJO
                                                                     KYENJOJO                             MUBENDE
                                                                                                          MUBENDE               MITYANA Wakiso

                                                          KAMWENGE                                                                                                                                                                                   BUSIABUSIA
                                     KASESE
                                     KASESE                                                                                             KAMPALAKAMPALA
                                                                 KamwengeKamwenge                                                                                KAMPALA
                                                                                                                                                                 KAMPALA
                              KaseseKasese                                                                                               Mpigi
                                                                                                                                         Mpigi
                                                                     Katonga                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                         MPIGI
                                                                                                                         MPIGI                                                                                                                                                     Kisumu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kisumu
                                 Lake
 0°                       George                          IBANDA
                                                          IBANDA                                          Sembabule
                                                                                                          Sembabule                            WAKISO AKISO                                                                                                                                                               0°
                                                                     KIRUHURA
                                                                     KIRUHURA
                                                               IbandaIbanda                  SEMBABULE            MASAKA
                                                                                                                  MASAKA                                                                                            MAM
                Lake                                                                                                                                                                 MUKONO
                                                                                                                                                                                     MUKONO
                         RU         BUSHENYI
                                    BUSHENYI                           KiruhuraKiruhura                                 MasakaMasaka
                                                                                                                                               KalangalaKalangala                                                                    BUGIRIBUGIRI
To
To            EdwardRUK    KUUNGIRIRI      BushenyiBushenyi                                                                                                                                                            AYYUGEUGE                                                               K E N Y A
Beni
Beni                                                          MBARARA
                                                              MBARARA
                                                       MbararaMbarara
                                                                                                RakaiRakai                                    KALANGALA
                                                                                                                                              KALANGALA
            KANUNGU
            KANUNGU                                                          IsingiroIsingiro

                     KanunguKanunguRukungiriRukungiri    Ntungamo
                                                         Ntungamo                                        RAKAI
                                                                                                         RAKAI
                                                                           ISINGIRO
                                                                           ISINGIRO
                                          NTUNGAMO
                                          NTUNGAMO

             KISOROKISORO   KABALE
                            KABALE                                                                                                            Lake                                 Victoria
                         KisoroKisoro   KabaleKabale
 amoGomaGoT                                                                  TANZANIA  NZANIA
                                                     To
                                                     To                                                      To
                                                                                                             To                                                                                                                                     TANZANIA   ANZANIA
                                            Kigali
                                            Kigali                                                       Nyakanazi
                                                                                                         Nyakanazi
                  RWANDARWANDA                                                                                                  32°E                                                                                                                 34°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JUNE 2007

