Document of                    RE   URN     TO
The World Bank                   REP Ci -9 DT'      6S(
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                  ONE       E WEEK
RewrtNo.P-2218 -NTR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TtE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
FORESTRY PROJECT
May 4, 1978
This document has a resttrctei distribution and may be tused by recipients only In the perfonnsace of
their official duties. Its contents may ..;>t otherwise be dipciosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =  CFAF Francs (CFAF)
US$1.00            =  CFAF 245
CFAF 1.00          =  US$0.00408
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Niger: October 1 - September 30
FORESTRY MEASURES
1 stere                      =1 Im3 os staked roundwood          3
1 stere fuelwood             =  0.65 m   of staked roundwood - m (r)
1 stere fuelwood             =  0.50 tins                        3
1 metric ton fuelwood        =  1.33 m   of staked roundwood - m (r)
1 metric ton fuelwood        =  2 steres
1 cubic meter fuelwood       =  1.5 steres
1 cubic meter fuelwood       =  0.75 ton
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                  =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)         2     =  2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km )     =  0.386 square mile
1 kilogram (kg)              =  2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (t)3            =  2,205 pounds
1 cubic meter (m )           =  35.31 cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS
CILSS     - Comite Permanent Interetats de Lutte Contre la Secheresse au Sahel
FAC       - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FAO       - Food and Agriculture Organization
IBRD      - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA       - International Development Association
INRAN     - Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique du Niger
IPDR      - Institut Pratique de Developpement Rural
ONERSOL   - Office Nigerien de l'Energie Solaire
UNDP      - United Nations Development Program
USAID     - United States Agency for International Development



FOR OfFCIAL U ONLY
NIGER
FORESTRY PROJECT
Credit and ProJect Summary
Borrower:      Republic of Niger
Amount:        US$4.5 million
Terms:          Standard
Project        This is a pilot and technical assistance project which would
Description:  assist Government in preventing further environmental disrup-
tion due to progressive destruction of the natural forest
cover, and improving fuelwood and building pole supplies
especially for the urban areas. The Project would establish
400 ha of pilot irrigated tree plantations and 700 ha of
pilot rainfed tree plantations; provide appropriate means to
improve the current rural forestry activities of the Forestry
Department; finance a training program in extension services;
provide assistance to research; establish a workshop mainten-
ance unit. The project would establish, within the Forestry
Department, a Project Unit to assist in coordinating and
monitoring the various project activities, monitoring project
progress, gathering economic data and results of experiments,
planning rural forest programs, and preparing a second phase
project suitable for Bank support. Consultant services
would be available to the unit to carry out complementary
studies on economic, sociological and agricultural aspects.
The project is intended to provide a sound basis for proceeding
with larger scale national development of the forestry re-
sources of Niger through expanded plantations and rural forestry
projects. The project will focus on the problems of deforesta-
tion and environmental deterioration. It will help to identify
at the village level the incentives and development capacity
needed to secure the cooperation of the rural people in imple-
menting the rural forestry programs, and to develop a basic
technical package and improved techniques in reafforestation
and conservation for the supply of fuel wood and building
wood for the urban centers and for the protection against
further environmental disruption. It also aims at strengthen-
ing the national forestry services.
The project will present the inevitable technical and economic
risks associated with such pilot activities. There is the
risk that introducing exotic species may not prove to be fully
adaptable to the arid conditions prevailing in Niger; further
studies might also reveal that the economic costs of proceeding
This document hs trited distributhoe ad u  be used by fCiISDI only In the pfrfonc.
of their ollcil dutie. Its contents ma rootb rl_*o be diksbd witholt World D-k authorition.



- ii -
with irrigated plantations on a commercial scale is too high.
However there is little risk that'the project's institutional
building aspects will not be justified because even at this
stage, it is possible to clearly identify alternative follow-up
investment projects in rural areas.
Estimated Project Costs (excluding taxes):
Local Foreign Total
-----…US$ '000-
Pilot Irrigated Tree Plantations            560   1,766   2,326
Pilot Rainfed Tree Plantations              351     314      665
Assistance to Rural Forestry Activities     104     247      351
Training in Extension Services               43      18       61
Assistance to Research                       35      47       82
Workshop Maintenance Unit                    61      90      151
Planning, Management and Monitoring Unit     97     364      461
Total Base Line Costs                1,251   2,846   4,097
Physical Contingencies                      109     354      463
Price Contingencies                         213     501      714
Total Project Costs                  1,573   3,701    5,274
Percent                               29.8    70.2    100.0
Financing      The proposed IDA credit of US$4.5 million would finance 85 per-
Plan:          cent of project costs (net of taxes) representing 100 percent
of the estimated foreign exchange component plus about 50
percent of the local costs. The Government would finance the
remainder of local costs estimated at US$0.8 million equivalent.
Estimated
Disbursements:
FY       FY       FY        FY
1978     1979      1980     1981
----------US$ Million----------
Annual                            -      1.3      2.0       1.2
Cumulative                        -      1.3      3.3       4.5



Rate of        Preliminary calculations indicate that the combined economic
Return:        rate of return for the irrigated and rainfed pilot tree plan-
tation components (75 percent of total cost), the only com-
ponents with significant quantifiable benefits, would be nearly
12 percent.
Appraisal      Given the pilot and technical assistance nature of the
Report:        activities to be undertaken under the proposed project,
a separate staff appraisal report was not prepared.
Map:            IBRD 13470.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A FORESTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for the equivalent of US$4.5 million on standard IDA terms to the
Republic of Niger to help finance a proposed forestry project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, "Economic Memorandum:   Niger" (RN 1109a-NIR) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on May 13, 1976. More recent economic
information from various sources is also incorporated in the following para-
graphs. Annex I contains country data.
Background
3.        With a per capita GNP of about US$160 in 1976, Niger is one of the
poorest African countries and amongst the 29 "least developed countries" so
classified by the United Nations. The country faces a number of formidable
constraints to development including poor soils, unfavorable climatic condi-
tions, landlocked position, high energy costs, high dependence on foreign
factors and low levels of education and technical ability. Since indepen-
dence in 1960,-the economy has undergone little structural change: agricul-
ture and livestock together provide employment and livelihood to over 90
percent of the population and account for nearly half of GNP and a sizeable
portion of export earnings. However, substantial growth was achieved in
recent years in industry which contributes a little over 10 percent of GNP
and particularly in uranium mining which has become an important factor in
expanding the Government's tax base and diversifying the country's exports.
Consumption has traditionally been rather high (about 95 percent of GNP)
and domestic savings modest; since investments have been relatively impor-
tant (16-18 percent of GNP), the resulting resource gap has been financed
by the substantial inflows of foreign resources.
Recent Developments
4.        Niger's recent economic developments have been characterized by
virtual stagnation in the agricultural sector and rapid expansion in mining
and industrial production. During the 1968-74 period, increasingly unfavor-
able weather and in particular the disastrous 1973/74 drought resulted in a
40 percent decline in the output of the staple crops (millet and sorghum)
while production of groundnuts, the single most important export crop, fell
by 70 percent and the size of cattle herds was almost reduced to half. In



1974/75, production of the main staples picked up again thanks to improved
rainfall and increases in producer prices, but output fell again in 1975/76
to about 80 percent of the pre-drought level because of premature ending and
uneven distribution of rainfall in some of the principal cultivation areas.
In 1976/77, rainfall was almost normal and the food situation significantly
improved. The outlook for 1977/78 appears to be relatively good compared
with other Sahelian countries where inadequate and untimely rainfall caused
again severe crop failures.
5.        The dominant feature of the economy in recent years has been the
continuous expansion in uranium mining activities. Between 1971 and 1976,
investment in this sector by foreign concerns amounted to some US$275 million,
uranium concentrates production increased rapidly from some 400 tons to about
1,600 tons, thereby facilitating the economy's recovery from the severe effects
of the 1973 drought. Thus in 1974-1976 overall real GNP growth exceeded 32
percent and, in 1976, uranium mining accounted for about 6 percent of GDP,
over half of total exports, and provided about one-third of total Government
revenue. Present forecasts indicate that uranium production will reach about
3,500-4,000 tons by 1980 with the entry into production of a second mine.
6.        Stimulated by this improvement in domestic income and by the impact
of the growing trade with Nigeria, the industrial and services sectors, in-
cluding transport and construction, have also expanded rapidly and accounted
for about 26 percent of GDP in 1976, although this relative increase also
reflects the drought-induced decline of agricultural and livestock activi-
ties.
Public Finance
7.        Over the last seven years, austere spending policy, together with
rapidly rising revenue, mostly from uranium mining, have enabled the Govern-
ment to generate substantial current budgetary savings which amounted to about
CFAF 10.0 billion (US$41 million) in fiscal 1976/77 and may reach CFAF 13 bil-
lion (US$53 million) in fiscal 1977/78. Two features of particular importance
are introduced-in the current 1977/78 budget: first, the elimination of the
head tax levied on all citizens between the ages of 15 and 65, with a view
to reducing the tax burden on lower income groups; and second, the rise in
capital expenditures in absolute as well as in relative terms, from CFAF 10
billion in 1976/77 (28 percent of total budgetary expenditures) to CFAF 13
billion (31 percent) with a corresponding increase in the share of rural
development investments. Both measures reflect Government's increasing
concern with the problems of social equity and economic growth. The substan-
tial increase in budgetary savings has also facilitated the elimination of
French budgetary grants which averaged about CFAF 1.2 billion (US$5.0 million)
annually over the 1970-75 period, and the increase in the proportion of
budgeted capital expenditures in total public investments from 10 percent
in 1970-75 to almost 20 percent in 1977/78.



-3-
Balance of Payments
8.        Following a deficit of CFAF 1.5 billion (US$6.1 million) in 1974,
when depressed agricultural exports and worldwide inflation resulted in the
doubling of trade balance deficit, the balance of payments returned to equilib-
rium in 1975, and recorded a substantial surplus amounting to CFAF 10.4 bil-
lion (US$42.4 million) in 1976. The main factors underlying this outstanding
performance are the considerable reduction of trade balance deficit due not
only to rapidly increased uranium exports, but also to sizeable reduction in
the importation of materials and equipment. The indication for 1977 is good,
with the expected increase in uranium exports to at least 1,800 tons and the
43 percent increase in uranium prices in early 1977, and provided that the
rising trend of foreign aid of recent years continues.
Development Issues and Prospects
9.        Niger's medium-term development potential lies primarily in the
rural sector which provides employment and livelihood of about 90 percent
of total.population. Thus the Government's strategy rightly gives top prior-
ity to efforts to improve agricultural productivity and to alleviate the
economy's vulnerability to the vagaries of the weather, with a view to en-
suring some degree of food self-sufficiency and promoting cash crops. The
basic constraints to be tackled are the poor and apparently deteriorating
soil fertility and the scarcity of arable land in relation to the rapidly
growing population: the cropping area amounts to about 10 percent of total
land area and only one-fifth of which (i.e. 2 percent) is under cultivation
at any given time under the existing system of shifting cultivation. The
Government has therefore initiated a "productivity program" aimed at intro-
ducing more intensive farming through provision of extension services, dis-
semination of adapted varieties and introduction of appropriate agricultural
techniques and implements. Special efforts are needed to restore exports of
a few cash crops, cotton and especially groundnuts which suffered from the
drought in 1972/74 and attacks from pests in recent years. Increasing atten-
tion is also given to forestry in recognition of the vital role of forests
in maintaining the country's fragile ecological equilibrium and as the most
important source of energy in the medium term.
10.       While the productivity program, which is expected to eventually
cover the entire rainfed agriculture area, represents the best way to im-
prove the standards of living of the vast majority of the rural population,
it cannot alleviate the precariousness of Niger's long-term food situation.
The Government therefore gives priority to development of hydro-agricultural
schemes which could lessen the country's vulnerability to the vagaries of the
weather and offer a viable solution to the land shortage problem. Development
of the country's considerable irrigation potential (up to 200,000 ha) would
have to await construction of a proposed regulatory dam on the Niger River.
In the meantime, there are some 16,000 ha which the Government intends to
develop for double cropping at the rate of about 1,000-2,000 ha annually.



- 4 -
11.       Regarding livestock, the herd reconstitution program initiated in
1976 is progressing satisfactorily but pre-drought cattle numbers will not
be reached until 1990. The strategy for full development of the livestock
potential also aims at establishment of an organization for land use and
grazing patterns based on a recognition of the complementarity of Niger's
different ecological zones.
12.       While the thrust of development efforts is centered on the rural
sector, Government also attaches priority to the prospection and exploita-
tion of the country's mineral resources. As indicated above, uranium already
provides much needed momentum to the economy through substantial Government
revenues and export earnings. In addition, there are indications of large
but as yet unassessed phosphate deposits which could be exploited for exports
and for fertilizer production. Several foreign companies are also actively
engaged in oil and gas prospection. There is therefore a considerable poten-
tial for mineral production; the judicious utilization of the resulting mining
proceeds could lay a sound basis for sustained economic growth and diversifi-
cation. The industrial sector offers favorable opportunities for productive
employment of Niger's urban and rural population. Prospects for development
of trade with Nigeria, import substitution activities, construction, services
and agro-industries to support and stimulate rural sector development, are
most attractive.
13.       Despite considerable achievement in the past two decades in terms
of primary and secondary school enrollments, Niger's education base has im-
proved only marginally: more than 90 percent of the population is still
illiterate and, overall, the shortage of qualified manpower for project
identification, preparation and implementation, constitutes the most critical
development constraint in the medium term. There is therefore increasing
recognition within Government that a major educational reform is needed.
Inadequacy of economic infrastructure, mainly for transport, is another
limiting factor which has also received high priority and increased finan-
cial resources.
Interim Program (1976-1978)
14.       This general line of the Government's strategy is broadly reflected
in the Interim Program, currently being implemented, which proposed public
investments of CFAF 78.2 billion (US$320 million) during the 1976-1978 period.
This plan gives emphasis to infrastructure and power (46 percent of total in-
vestments), agriculture (33 percent) and development of human resources (18
percent). About one-fourth of total investment was expected to be financed
by domestic resources, reflecting the Government's determination to mobilize
domestic savings to the fullest extent possible. Nevertheless, in view of
Niger's poverty and still limited growth prospects, external funds should
continue to be provided on the most concessionary terms. Moreover, foreign
aid agencies should consider financing a high proportion of total project
costs, including local costs.



15.       Between 1971 and 1975, Niger's total recorded net flow of resources
from DAC countries and multilateral agencies averaged about U$$80 million
annually of which 95 percent was on concessionary terms. No reliable infor-
mation is available on external flows from other sources. The European
Development Fund (FED), France, Germany and Canada remain Niger's major
aid donors along with Saudi Arabia and Algeria which have expanded their
programs in the last two years.
16.       At the end of 1975, external public debt outstanding amounted to
US$231.7 million, including an undisbursed amount of US$109.1 million. The
ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services was 3.5 per-
cent in 1973 and remained manageable at 5.8 percent in 1975. No significant
increase in debt has taken place over the last two years and no debt servicing
problems are foreseen in the near future. The Bank Group ranks as Niger's
second largest creditor with 17.3 percent of total debt outstanding and dis-
bursed. This level reflects the fact that the major bilateral donors are
making most of their aid available on a grant basis. IDA's share in total
debt service payments is insignificant.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN NIGER
17.       Beginning with an IDA credit for road construction in 1964, eleven
IDA credits including two supplementary credits, have so far been approved
for Niger totalling US$53.5 million, net of cancellations. Past Bank Group
lending was heavily concentrated on transport and communications, where
inadequate facilities hampered the development of the country: of the nine
projects approved to date, four aimed at expanding and up-grading the domestic
road network, one provided for improvement and extension of existing facili-
ties at Niamey international airport and another for the installation of a
more reliable telecommunications system. IDA's lending to date for the rural
sector includes an agricultural credit project, a drought relief project and
the Maradi rural development project. Annex II contains a summary statement
of these credits as of March 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of on-going
projects.
18.       In keeping with Niger's overall development strategy, future Bank
Group lending will increasingly focus on efforts to ensure some degree of
food self-sufficiency and to improve the incomes and standards of living
of the rural population; to upgrade and expand physical infrastructure; to
develop alternative approaches to training and educational reform; and to
diversify the economy and expand modern sector employment. We will also con-
tinue to advise Government on policy issues and options through our economic
and sector work.
19.       For the three fiscal years 1978-80, about half of IDA's lending
to Niger will go to the rural sector. In addition to the proposed forestry
project, we plan to contribute to the financing of an irrigation project
aimed at developing rice production and at assisting Government in carrying



- 6 -
out institutional reforms; a livestock project in support of efforts to speed
up the reconstitution of herds, to increase livestock productivity and to
promote effective participation of the pastoralists in the management and
improvement of communal rangelands and stock watering points; and a second
rural development project designed to achieve sustained increase in foodgrain
production and in rural incomes in the Dosso area.
20.       In transport, we plan to place emphasis on assistance in the con-
struction of a network of secondary and access roads to support the Govern-
ment's agricultural program while continuing our support for maintenance of
the existing infrastructure; the feeder roads project currently under prep-
aration will mark a first step towards this objective. The proposed education
project will address the urgent problem of developing qualified high and mid-
dle level manpower particularly for agricultural development activities; it
will also aim at some limited expansion in enrollment, improvement in the
quality of existing institutions and development of non-formal education pro-
grams. In general, all future projects will also include, as needed, train-
ing, technical assistance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening
institutions. Regarding the industrial sector, a proposed small/medium scale
enterprises and artisans project would provide technical and financial assis-
tance for employment creation activities and form the basis for our dialogue
with Government on the future development of this sector.
PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
Background
21.       Niger's natural forest cover consists, with the exception of the
higher grade sudanian forests in the South, of low grade savanna, thickets
or bush which serve as dry weather grazing reserves. Classified forest
reserves parks and controlled erosion areas cover about 1 million ha or 0.9
percent of the country's total area. The area of man-made forests is reported
to be some 6,000 ha mainly around Niamey but much of this has been experimental
planting and stocking is poor.
22.       According to the Bank's 1976 economic report, the forestry sector
accounts for about 6 percent of GDP. However, the official statistics of the
value of forest output do not adequately reflect the important role which the
natural forest savanna and bush play in protecting the soil from wind erosion,
providing tree fodder, a dry weather grazing reserve for livestock and a
source of fruit, fibre, fuelwood, and building poles to meet the basic needs
of the rural population for heating, cooking and shelter. Fuelwood needs,
which account for about 90 percent of total wood consumption are estimated at
about 2.8 million cubic meters of which some 12 percent is used in the urban
areas. Construction poles coming from the southern Borassus forests represent
some 10 percent of total consumption. Industrial wood is imported from
neighboring countries.



- 7 -
23.       Given the present annual population growth rate of about 2.7 percent
and assuming the present per capita consumption levels, 1/ it is estimated
that fuelwood requirements will more than double by the year 2000 to about 6
million cubic meters of which about 20 percent will be needed for the urban
areas. This rapidly increasing demand is currently being met almost entirely
from natural forest and bush supplies which in many areas, particularly around
Niamey have been completely cut out. The resulting wind erosion of top soil
and disturbance of the fragile ecological equilibrium have led to development
of desert conditions, declining soil fertility and degradation of some 0.7
million ha of potential agricultural land. Already such conditions exist
over a 50 km radius around the city of Niamey, the fuelwood demands of which
will nearly triple over the next decade. Desert conditions resulting from
fuelwood harvesting will spread to over an 80 km radius in this period unless
steps are taken to reforest selected areas with compensatory plantations. The
potential loss of further agricultural land will increase to about 2 million
ha. Adoption of more efficient wood usage systems (e.g. better designed wood
using stoves), or alternative sources of energy could also make a significant
reduction in total wood demand. The national agency for solar energy (ONERSOL)
is currently carrying out experiments on the use of solar energy for heating
and cooking.
24.       In the present situation of widespread shortages, prices are so high
that firewood needs represent about 20 percent of the average urban family
budget, and the low income groups in rural areas are forced to burn crop
residues such as millet straw and cattle dung as fuel except during the
rainy season when wood is the only fuel usable. The long term effect of
burning potential cattle fodder and dung will be to cause a further decline
in soil fertility and a significant reduction in food crop yields, a matter
of critical concern in a country where land suitable for cropping represents
less than 10 percent of the land area.
Sectoral Organization
25.       The Forestry Department of the Ministry of Rural Development has
responsibility over forestry production and protection, inland fishing and
pisciculture, fauna conservation and park management. Its activities are
however, hampered by shortage of trained personnel at all levels as well as
inadequacy of financial resources in relation to the present workload. In
1975, total staff consisted of 150 agents of which 7 engineers and 15 tech-
nicians; there were also 3 engineers and 15 technicians under training in
Niger and abroad. In comparison, manpower needs were estimated by a FAO/CILSS
survey at about 726 agents of which 23 engineers and 73 technicians. As to
financial resources, public expenditures for forestry activities in the same
year amounted to CFAF 273 million (US$1.1 million) equivalent to less than
one percent of total public expenditures. There is therefore a clear need
to strengthen the Forestry Department.
1/   A yearly consumption of 0.8 m   (r)/person in urban areas and 0.6 m
(r)/person in urban areas.



-8-
On-Going Activities
26.       There are numerous small-scale forestry operations under way, scat-
tered throughout the country and designed to achieve a variety of objectives
ranging from fuelwood and pole plantations to land rehabilitation. Practi-
cally all these undertakings are financed by external resources. The results
of these on-going forestry projects are very irregular: some have had satis-
factory results (such as fuelwood plantations, Niamey shelter-belt, wind-
breaks, improvement of gum stands); others have had less satisfactory results
(such as Acacia Albida interplanting, village woodlots). These varied results
are due to: (a) general lack of means of the Forestry Department which is,
nonetheless, able to concentrate resources on a few successful activities; and
(b) the prevalent cropping and grazing pressures which in some areas, inhibit
rural population from participating in rural forestry projects. In contrast
with these varied results of projects outside villages, forestry activities
within compounds through shade tree plantations are very promising. Some
villagers are now getting used to regularly loping or pollarding shade tree
plantations in compounds to obtain fuelwood and poles.
27.       The Bank Group has financed forestry activities within the frame-
work of two previous credits. First, the Drought Relief Project (Credit
441-NIR) provided financing for the protection and rational management of
existing gum acacia stands in the Zinder and Diffa districts. This has
been a successful operation: 6,000 ha of gum arabic stands have already
been reserved and brought under protectional management, compared with the
project's target of 2,000 ha. A total of about 500 ha of village woodlot
plantations is to be established under the Maradi Rural Development Project
(Credit 608-NIR). This component is just getting underway.
Potential and Constraints
28.       The technical constraints to forestry development in Niger are
formidable, with most of the country having less than 500 mm of erractic
rainfall. Only a small part of the country located in the south reaches the
800 mm rainfall level. A major problem is the absence of technical packages
adapted to these arid conditions. Other constraints include the lack of
basic natural resource data and limited experience of effective measures
for mobilizing the participation of the rural population.
29.       Experiments carried out by the national agricultural research
institute (INRAN) have shown promising results in new reafforestation tech-
niques for irrigated plantations; less promising results have been achieved
with rainfed plantations but, in view of the limited potential for irrigated
plantations outside the Niger valley, research on new varieties and techniques
for rainfed plantations is being actively pursued.
30.       There is presently no complete inventory of natural forest resources
or other basic data required to elaborate a long term comprehensive rehabilita-
tion and conservation forestry plan. It is expected, however, that collection
of this information will be one of the major objectives of a proposed USAID-
financed technical assistance project covering the period 1979-80.



- 9 -
31.       In addition to these technical problems it is increasingly evident
that effective participation of the rural population is a prerequisite to a
long-term strategy for forestry development in Niger. At present, any rural
forestry implementation can only be envisaged through an integrated program
aimed at increasing both agricultural and forestry output and with appropriate
emphasis on extension and forest protection.
Sectoral Development Policy
32.       Since the Sahelian Drought, increasing attention has been given
to the role of the forestry sector in economic development. Government's
current forestry sector development strategy has three main objectives:
-    To protect the remaining natural forest cover from encroach-
ment and overgrazing by livestock;
-    To develop a sustained supply of fuelwood, building poles,
lumber, shade, fruit and fodder providing trees, for both
rural and urban populations;
-    To establish windbreaks and to stabilize sand dunes in order
to prevent encroachment of the desert further south.
33.       Given the present limited technical knowledge available in Niger
and the weakness of the national forestry service, Government has not yet
been able to formulate effective long-term solutions to cope with these
problems. In the meantime, external financial and technical assistance is
called for to help the Government in carrying out medium to large-scale pilot
schemes to test the feasibility of new reafforestation techniques, strengthen-
ing of the forestry services, and gathering of basic technical and socio-
economic data.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The proposed project was identified in February-March 1977 following
a request by Government. An FAO/Bank cooperative program mission appraised
the project in October 1977. Negotiations were held from April 3 to 4, 1978
with a Government delegation consisting of Mr. Najada, Director of the Forestry
Department of the Ministry of Rural Development.
Project Objectives
35.       The project would support a three-year program of pilot activities
aimed at improving fuelwood and building pole supplies especially for the
urban areas, preventing further environmental degradation around townships
due to progressive destruction of natural forest cover, and strengthening
the Forestry Department through provision of technical assistance and equip-
ment with a view to building up a more effective extension service in the



- 10 -
rural areas. The project would also support complementary studies to inves-
tigate ways and means of securing support of people at the village level for
an expanded national program of rural reafforestation. One of the major
objectives of the project would also be to create a capacity for planning,
management and monitoring within the Forestry Department.
Project Description
36.       The project would include:
i.   Pilot irrigated tree plantations:   Experiments carried
out in the Niamey mainly area with Eucalyptus Camaldulensis
have shown promising results which indicate that irrigated
plantations offer one obvious possibility of meeting the
requirements of the urban centers. Thus, it is estimated
that an area of about 15,000 ha of irrigated plantations
could meet Niamey's fuelwood demands to the year 2000
compared with current harvesting practices which would
necessitate virtual elimination of natural forest or bush
over an area of some 2 million ha. Such irrigated tree
plantations could be established on the lower terraces of
the Niger River which are not suitable for irrigated paddy
cultivation. Moreover, there will be no competition for
water supply because the tree plantations need not be irri-
gated during the rainy season when the Niger River is at
its lowest level. The proposed project will therefore fi-
nance two or three pilot irrigated tree plantations totall-
ing about 400 ha, to be established around Niamey at an
estimated cost (excluding contingencies) of about US$3,800/ha
of which US$3,300/ha for civil works. We have received
assurances from Government that sites have been identified;
official confirmation of their allocation to the project
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
(Section 5.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement). Seedlings
will be provided by nurseries of the Forestry Department and
the planting program would be 100 ha in 1979 and 300 ha in
1980. The stands would be cut every three years for 12
years and would be replanted thereafter. Emphasis will be
put on maintenance of accurate costing records and economic
studies needed to assess the viability of a large second
phase project, and also on a study of the areas of irrigable
land which could be secured for such a larger program.
ii.   Pilot rainfed tree plantations:    The project would
also finance the establishment of about 700 ha rainfed
tree plantations around the main urban areas (of which
half around Niamey and the remainder around Tahoua,
Maradi and Zinder) mainly with neem (Azadirachta Indica).
All rainfed tree plantations will be established in
classified forests (see para. 21) and hence no land



- 11 -
availability problem is foreseen.    Establishment costs
(excluding contingencies) are estimated at US$590/ha.
Seedlings would be provided by nurseries of the Forestry
Department and the planting program would be as follows:
300 ha in 1979 and 400 ha in 1980. The stands would
be cut every six years for 18 years and they would be
replanted thereafter. These rainfed pilot plantations
are necessary considering the limited potential for
irrigated plantations outside the Niger River valley.
Further study could also prove that rainfed tree planta-
tions are a more economical and effective way of meeting
fuelwood demands.
iii.   Assistance to Rural Forestry Activities:   The project
would provide equipment, vehicles, fencing and nursery
supplies (poles, barbed wire, tools, plastic bags)
in order to improve the implementation of the on-going
rural forestry activities of the Forestry Department
(management of natural forests, establishment of village
woodlots, shelter belts, windbreaks, life fencing and
sand dune stabilization) and thus to pave the way for
a more widespread program for establishment of forestry
schemes in the rural areas. The Government's current
tree nursery programs will be reviewed by the proposed
planning, management and monitoring unit with emphasis
on the scope for promoting new fast growing species
for production of forestry fodder, fruit, nut, fibre,
fuelwood, poles or timber.
iv.   Training in Extension Services:   The project would
provide refresher courses on rural reafforestation
techniques and possible approaches to encouraging
rural population participation, for about 50 field
staff dealing with rural forestry activities. Courses
would be given at the FAC/FAO/UNDP-assisted national
agricultural training institute (IPDR) of Kolo; training
curricula will be agreed upon with the Association.
(Part D of Schedule 2 of the draft Credit Agreement.)
v.   Assistance to research:   Ongoing forestry research in
Niger is carried out by the FAC-assisted INRAN and is
on the whole satisfactory. However, more research is
necessary in such fields as new species, more efficient
wood usage for construction and heating, promotion of
substitutes, irrigated and rainfed tree plantations.
Funds will therefore be provided under the proposed
Credit to finance materials and operating costs for this
complementary research to be carried out by INRAN within
the framework of the proposed project. (Part E of
Schedule 2 of the draft Credit Agreement.)



- 12 -
vi.   Workshop maintenance unit.   Because of the harsh climatic
conditions and lack of maintenance facilities available
to the Forestry Department and, in the light of expanding
activities, the proposed project would implement and
manage a machinery and vehicle maintenance unit.
Implementation
37.       The project would establish, within the Forestry Department, a
Project Unit to assist the Forestry Department in coordinating and monitoring
the various project activities, establishing project progress reports, gather-
ing economic data and results of experiments, planning rural forest programs,
and preparing an expanded second phase project suitable for Bank support.
Furthermore consultant services would be available to the unit to carry out
complementary studies on economic, sociological and agricultural (including
livestock) aspects. Higher priority than in the past will be given to economic
research into the cost and benefit aspects of rural afforestation programs,
including the study of possible options for a reasonable cost recovery for any
future large scale development projects. A sociological study, inter alia,
will be made of alternative approaches to extension work in forestry at the
village level. Studies will also be made of the relationship between forestry
and agricultural extension efforts particularly those associated with promo-
tion of fodder suppliers for livestock (which would thereby relieve pressure
on forest resources) and of the scope for better grazing schemes in forest
areas. The proposed planning, management and monitoring unit shall be estab-
lished under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. (Section
3.02(b) of the draft Credit Agreement.)
38.       The Project Unit would be headed by a Project Director with qual-
ifications and experience, and employed under terms and conditions, satis-
factory to the Association. Other key staff would include a specialist in
tropical forestry familiar with problems of forestry and rural economics as
adviser to the Project Director and an agricultural engineer (Genie rural
specialist) in charge of the irrigated plantations and the workshop main-
tenance unit. Because no qualified nationals are available for the latter
two positions, they will be filled through international recruitment, under
terms of reference and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation. Appointment of the Project Director and recruitment of the other
key staff would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Sec-
tion 5.01 (c) and (d) of the draft Credit Agreement). Government has agreed
to provide a counterpart to be trained by the agricultural engineer within
the framework of his activities. The proposed Credit would also finance 12
man-months of consultants' services, including a sociologist, a livestock
specialist and an economist, under terms of reference and condition of em-
ployment satisfactory to the Association. (Section 3.02(a) of the draft
Credit Agreement.) Close liaison will be maintained during project imple-
mentation with "Genie rural" Department and INRAN as well as the other
agencies already active in this field. (Section 4.03 of the draft Credit
Agreement.)



- 13 -
Cost Estimates and Financing
39.       Total project costs net of duties and taxes are estimated at US$5.3
million including physical and price contingencies. The proposed IDA credit
would finance the entire foreign exchange component amounting to US$3.7 mil-
lion or 70 per cent of total costs; the local cost component will be financed
half and half by the Government and the Association, with the Government tak-
ing in charge salaries of local personnel, local currency expenditure for
expatriate staff and consultants and part of the operating costs. Estimated
costs by project components are given in the Credit and Project Summary. The
financing plan showing the proposed application of the IDA and Government
contributions by expenditure item is as follows:
US$ Thousands
Government     IDA        Total
Civil Works                                      -         2.21        2.21
Machinery and vehicles                           -         0.65        0.65
Equipment, supplies and inputs                   -         0.44        0.44
Expatriate staff and Consultants               0.07        0.61        0.68
Local Personnel                                0.47         -          0.47
Operating Costs of Machinery
and Vehicles                                 0.23        0.59       0.82
Total                                0.77        4.50       5.27
(Percentage)                         (15)        (85)      (100)
40.       The estimated costs of expatriate personnel cover 6 man-years
of staff and one man-year of consultants at an average cost per man-month,
including allowances and travel, of about US$8,100. Physical contingencies
have been applied as follows: 20 percent on civil works and 10 percent on all
other items except for personnel costs. Price contingencies of 10 percent
(1978) and 9 percent (1979-80) have been applied for civil works, and of 7.5
percent (1978-79) and 7.0 percent (1980-81) respectively for all other project
components. Total contingencies amount to US$1.2 million, equivalent to about
29 percent of base cost estimates.
Establishment of a Special Fund
41.       Immediately after credit effectiveness, an initial Association dis-
bursement of US$200,000 equivalent would be made to a special account; from



- 14 -
this account Government would be able to finance project expenditures. The
Association would replenish the special fund upon reception of satisfactory
evidence that such expenditures are eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit. However, should any disbursement out of the special fund
fail to meet the criteria of eligibility, IDA would refuse disbursement, and
Government would be under obligation to deposit the corresponding amount into
the special account. Opening of this Special Account will be a condition of
effectiveness. (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Credit Agreement.)
Procurement and disbursement
42.       In view of the high costs of works carried out by enterprises
owing to the lack of effective competition amongst contractors and the
substantial backlog of construction works (mainly roads), civil works and
buildings would be constructed by force account with the assistance of the
Genie Rural Department of the Ministry of Rural Development and the soil
and forestry divisions of INRAN. Contracts for installation of the pumping
stations needed for irrigated plantations (US$0.6 million) and equipment and
vehicles (US$0.6 million), given the small size and timing of the individual
purchases, would be awarded following local competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
43.       The Credit would be disbursed against:   100 percent of expenditures
for civil works (including buildings), equipment, vehicles and inputs; 100
percent of the foreign exchange component of salaries for the staff and con-
sultants; and 92 percent of the operating costs for machinery and vehicles
provided under the project. Disbursements will be fully documented except
for those works done by force account and operating costs which will be made
against a certificate of expenditure, the documentation of which is not sub-
mitted for review, but is retained by the Borrower and available for inspec-
tion by the Bank during the course of a supervision mission. The Borrower
will make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the audit of
expenditures covering disbursements under this procedure (Section 4.02 of
the Credit Agreement).
Accounting and-Auditing
44.       The planning, management and monitoring unit would keep separate
accounts for each project component. The project accounts will be audited by
independent auditors mutually acceptable to the Government and IDA. Audited
annual accounts would be submitted to IDA within four months of the closing of
the financial year. (Section 4.02 of the draft Credit Agreement.)
Project Benefits
45.       The project is intended to provide a sound basis for proceeding
with larger scale national development of the forestry resources of Niger
through expanded plantations and rural forestry projects. The project activi-
ties will focus on the problems of deforestation and environmental deteriora-
tion in the rural areas and on the sociological attitudes of villagers to
implement forestry protection and management. It will attempt to identify at



- 15 -
the village level the incentives and development capacity needed to secure the
cooperation of the rural people in implementing the rural forestry programs.
It will develop a basic technical package and improved techniques in reaffores-
tation and conservation for the supply of fuel and building wood for the
urban centers and for the protection against further environmental/ecological
disruption. Additional major benefits of the proposed project will be the
strengthening of the national forestry service charged with planning and
supervising forestry activities in Niger, and preparation of a program for
development of the rural infrastructure for larger scale rural forestry
programs.
46.       The principal quantifiable benefits of the project would be the
incremental production of fuelwood and construction poles resulting both
from the establishment of pilot irrigated and rainfed tree plantations.
Preliminary calculations indicate these two components, which account for
75 percent of total project costs, are economically justified with rates of
return of about 12.0 percent for irrigated plantations and 10.6 percent for
rainfed plantations. The overall rate of return for these two components is
nearly 12 percent. Two key assumptions regarding these calculations are:
i.   an annual increase of 5 percent in real terms in
fuelwood prices for the next twelve years; and
ii.   soil conservation benefits are valued in terms of
the value of the millet/sorghum production from
the land that would be destroyed without the project.
While the project is expected to have a satisfactory economic rate of return,
the quantifiable benefits are less important than the non-quantifiable ecolo-
gical, social and institutional benefits.
Project Risks and Possible Follow-up Investment Projects
47.       The proposed project will present the inevitable technical and
economic risks associated with such pilot activities. For the irrigated
tree plantation component there is a risk that further studies might reveal
that the economic costs of proceeding on a commercial scale is too high.
For the rainfed tree plantation there is a technical risk that introduced
exotic plantation species may not prove to be fully adaptable to the arid
conditions prevailing in Niger.
48.       However, despite these risks outlined above, there is little risk
that the project's institutional building aspects will not be justified
because, even at this stage, it is possible to clearly identify alternative
follow-up investment projects in rural areas.
49.       Three possible alternative follow-up investment projects can be
identified:



- 16 -
(i) Irrigated plantations
In the event that the pilot irrigated plantation component
is successful, a logical investment project as a follow-up
to these pilot experiments will be initiation of a planting
program of about 15,000 hectares over say a 10- to 15-year
period primarily aimed at supplying the fuel requirements
of Niamey township.
(ii) Rainfed plantations
In the event that it is decided for either technical or
economic reasons not to proceed with the irrigated planta-
tion option on a larger scale, it would be feasible to plan
to meet Niamey's fuelwood township requirements from rain-
fed plantations, preferably using fast growing exotic spe-
cies, such as those which have been under trial for the
last decade, or alternatively if further study of these
past trials proves that the technical risks are too great,
by relying on indigenous species which it is known can be
established in this region. An area of something between
50,000 hectares and 150,000 hectares would be required,
depending on whether slow growing indigenous or faster
growing introduced species are used.
(iii) Protection and development of the existing natural forests
and of village woodlots
Quite independently of the two project alternatives iden-
tified above, the Government Forest Service is committed
to a long term program for protecting and developing the
natural forest in the South and also to assisting through
its agricultural development and rural development project
programs in the establishment of village woodlots throughout
the rural areas to meet the rural population demand for
fuelwood, tree fodder and building poles. Fuelwood require-
ments alone in the rural3areas to the year 2000 would be in
the order of 5 million m (para. 23).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Niger and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 17 -
51.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness include the opening of the Special
Account (Section 5.01(a) of the Credit Agreement), the allocation of the two
or three sites for the irrigated tree plantations (Section 5.01(b) of the
Credit Agreement), the appointment of a Project Director (Section 5.01(c) of
the Credit Agreement) and the recruitment of the agricultural engineer and the
specialist in tropical forestry for the Project Unit (Section 5.01(d) of the
Credit Agreement).
52.        I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 4, 1978






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
NIGER              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA  rHOU KM2)              ------ - ---                      -   ---… -
_______________                              NIGER                             REFERENCE RCTES (1970)
TOTAL     1267.0                                   MOST RECENT                           A   rI
AGRIC.    180.0                     1960      1970   ESTIMATE         MALAWI          EMPIRE      SENEGAL**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  00.0 *   I.O *     160.0/a*           70.0      170.0       70.0
___________________2
POPULATION AND VITAL S'ATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)         3.1       4.0       4.7/a             4.5        1.6        4.4
POPULAl ,ON DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                     2.0       3.0       4.0 /a           38.0        3.0      22.0
P'.R SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     17.0     22.0      26.0            100.0       27.0      55.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)       52.4     52.3      52.2              49.3       45.4       47.6
CRUDE DEATH PATE (/THOU.AV)        28.4     25.7      25.5              28.1       26.4       24 4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU     200.0        ,,     162.0*-
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)    35.9      38.5      38.5              30.5      39.0       40.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.1       3.5       3.5               3.2        2.9        3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTIL                              2.5       2.8       2.6               2.6       2.2        2.6
URBAN                               4.5      6.3       5.5               5.0        7.2       6.0
URBAN POPULATION 1% OF TOTAL)        4.8       8.2       9.4               5.6       30.1      29.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                    43.8      44.5      43.0              43.9      42.1       41.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                    53.0      52.6      52. 2c           52.1       54.8       54.8
65 YEARS AND OV7.R                 2.2       2.9       4.8(c             4.0       3.1t       3.9
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.9       0.9       0.9              0.90      0.2.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.9 /a    .o/.L     ..               1.1/a     o.g/a      1.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)                           ..        ..        ..
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..       ..        ..
EMPLOYMEN r
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       770.0 /b 1900.0        ..            1900.0     820.0     1600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)      97.0 m    91.0        ..             09.0       91.0       73.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOP FORCE)          ..       ..        ..               ..         ..        7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVAsE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS         23.0        ,,        ,,              29.5
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS         42.0        ..                        52.9
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS          6.0        ..        ..              5.7
LOWEST  49% Of NO4SNOOLDS         1.0         ** ..                                            ....
OISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
S OWNED BY TOP tO% OF OwNERS           ..       ..        ..
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS         ..       ..        ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
____________________
POPULl.tIoN PER PHYSICIAN        71000.0C 58260.0   41060.0            75250.0  38330.0     16640.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     7s00o.0C 7040.0    4970.0                 .     1280.0/b   2610.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSrlTAL BED       18H0.07; 2230.0     1790.0/d          640.0      460.0      810.07E
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)      93.0      83.0      78.0              93.0      96.0       91.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)           74.0      72.0      74.0              54.0      4 .0       64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         ..     24.0/b      ..               9.0/b    22.0       2B.0o/d
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4           ..        ..        ..
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                     5.0      14.0      17.0              39.0      69.0       43.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                   0.3       1.0       2.0               2.0       5.0       10.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)          13.0      13.0      14.0              14.0      10-12      13.0
VOTCAT IONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONOARY)                   4.0       3.0      2.2                3.0      12.0        9.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)              5.0        ..        ..              22.0        ..       10.0
HOUSI NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)              ..        ..        ..               1.9/C
OCCUPIED tJELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                     ..        ..        ..              78.0 /c,     .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                ..        ..        ..              16.0 /c.d
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X\                  ..        ..        ..
CONSUMPT I t4
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        1.0     36.0        ..              20.0       30.0      69.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)        0.3       1.0       2.0               2.0       4.0        9.0
ELECTRICitI (KWH/YR PER CAP)         2.       10.0      15.0              32.0       29.0       73.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)            3.i/d      ..        ,.                ..        ..         0.1
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSI



Paeg 2 of 4 pages
Unless othervisa noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1939 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, and for Most Recenkt Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
GNP par capita data are baeed orn the World bank Atls methodologY (1974-76 beate).
Senegal has been selected 4a en objective country since Its 1970 GNP is about three times that of Niger, both countries are in the eame
geographical aerase, have similar production patternso (with the sans donisnen crop-groundawuts) , share the ear umtontry syston and have
about the same population.
NIG-ER              1960     /a  Raetio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;      lb   Excludes labor force of Niamy city,
nomad population end foreigners;      /c  1962;     /d  1964.
1970   La  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force;        /b  1964-66.
NOST RECEN   ESTMIAT:      /a  1976;    Lb  1972;     Ls. Age 15-59 end 60 y"entaend over respectively;       Ld  1971.
MALAWI  ~      1970    /a  Ramtio of population under 15 end 65 end over to total labor force.      /b  1964-66;    -/c  1967;     Ld  Urban only.
CENTRAL IFRICAN     1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force;       /b   Including midwives and assistant nurse*.
EMP IRE
SENEGAL             1970   Is   Ratio of populatiotn under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force;      lb,  ncluding assistant nurase#;
LcGovernment hospital estabIaLm  nts only;      Ld  1964-66.
R7, Decemer 12, 1977
MinUIEIa       SOP0CIL DIDICATOS
Lan.d Are. (thou km2                                                                   Popuaton par ourinsPro         Population 4itidad by n, br Of practicing
TotalI  Total aurfcac area ccoprising Land area end InLead wnta" .                      mela an   finl  ar-eduate cuesa, "trained" or reartifiad" nmurss  and
AsJriC.- Moat recent sa tinets of agricultural area used tompoarezly or psime-          arniliary perenmuel with treining or ..Pert...e
nently for crops, peastrea, nerkat 6 kitchen gardens or to Ile fallow.               =ouaime oa,r        - honi albd -Population divided by mumber of hoapital bede
mbvei1abteion public and privece general and specialled hoapital and
GNP per capita (IMI; - GNP per capita estimates at currant market prices,                reaiiain        cnter; 4MCIude wastein  hosso end establialomtnr  for
calculated by amoe converion mahod as, Vorld Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);               Custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                           Per cap!"ta puil   fclra      1ofr     ieat'        ~   ted fri, energy
Povulptioll and vit                                                                                      O~~~~~~~euiaen  o  etfodsupie  valal  i  mtxry Per capita per day;
Popuatin ed v ta statistic,                                                         aveilable supplies COWpL"s dm511ic production, Imports less anports,so
Po:ulecion (midermilo'          Aa of July first:  if not pysilable, aesrege            changes in stock; net supplis eacluda animal feed, geade,n quantitle   eed
of tw  and-ear stimatee; la60, 1970 end 1975 data,                                 in food processing md looses In distribution; requireommnts ~mr  estimated
by FAG be"amdo  physiological needs for normal activity and  ealth conald-
Population density - Ver scuars km - Mid-year populAtion per squae" kilrnter             swing  tnsntlemperature, body weighta, age and sez distributions of
(100 hactaree) of total at"a.                                                         population, and allowing 101 for waste at househoU level.
Ponuacio denity  persgore he of ugLrtc, Wen  - Ganisutod as above for           Per cani.1tr,s Iuil  ofooti  f=arM n     daw) - Protein content of pet taplt.
ag:ric.ul?tural l=   onl.                                                               ne splyo      food pe  ay   at supply Of food is defined as abows; require-
vents for all countries eatablished by -naA Scomnmic Iaesarth Serrirse
Vital statistics                                                                         Provide for a Minimum elboence of 60 greas of totaL prtaeik per day, snd
Crud ba,,irth ra e r thouan.Mr       e 'uAn   l live births per thousd of                20 grams Of animal and Pulgse protein, of which 10 grin should be animal
mid-yar ppulaton; en-yar rithotic averagee wAng in 1960 and 1970,                 Protein; thM* standards are   Onmr then thee. of 75 grimn of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate,                         -ad 25 grine of animal protein as en sgvarga f or tha .mwld, propeeed by yAG)
Crdo death rate per thuad       vre        nuL deetba pew thoumand of mid-year           in the Third World Food Survey.
population; te-yea      erit;tc aveags ending ina 1960 end 1970 mi five-              ercpt     reieusyfean            aledoe       - Protei  suply of food
year average enigi     17    o ns     een    siat.drvd fra=VG                                               edplani        R    par day. 
Infenkt mortality rata f/thou) - Arnual deaths of inants under on year of agem;                t  (.thoul no   1-4 - UAitl deaths par thousand In age group 1-4
per thouaand live birtha.                                                              ter, t chLildrna in this age group; suggetad as, an inbdicator of
Lifs exneccancy at birth (Trs) -Average nxder of years of life rnimrinbg at              mealntritiso.
birth; usually five-year averages ending In 1960, 1970 and 1975 for dwelop-
ing countries.                                                                        dcto
gXoe rgrducio   rail- Average number of live daughtrs a womn will beer           Adlinted enyoImatrai       olavqh          - Rnzolmaac of all agea an per-
to  rnoms1wmreproAuictive period if ebe expawisncee present age-apecfitt               centag  of pr."Mery  choo-ag     pouaion  nide     htraaed6I          sr
fertility rates; usually five-year averagm aending In 1960, 1970 =W 1975               but adjusted for different lenatha of primway education; for Countries with
for developing countries.                                                              univaesal edbactiou. enrOllment may amteaed 10O1 since aom pupils are below
Populatomion eoobrte M&  ) - tQtal - Compound anneal growth rates of mid-year            Or above the off iielA school age.
population for 1950-60 ,1960-70 and 1970-75.                                         Adutderlmn          e9-emarsho               - Computed we shove; aueaenary
Populatiotn trowth rate(tIf- ura   - Cmputod ILhe growth rate of total                   euainrqraateatfuyeeofapproved primery instrction;
population; differen   dainitione of urban &rees may effect cmperebilicy of            PrOwide general1, vocational or teacher tarsining inetructioss for pupils
data anong comitriaa.                                                                  of 12 to 17 years of atge; cortempeauns coursge ean generally mInuded.
Urba ooolacin 1  of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different         yer   fsholn       rvdd frtadseodlvl                   - Tocal years of
defintpion  of urban areas may affect compezshility of datea      cmmcrttiea.scoln;a                   cs.ylel,oatnlisruinmybeptaly                            r
cmplately onelade.
Av structure (Prerent; - Childrm   (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),            Voc         X                          -Vational nole cfTfscndr'-  ctiILoasitucioen incldud
and rtired(65Tears and over) as percentages of eid.yoar population.                ta    ir,inWrIIl or -her Program        which opert. independently uor as
MAe depedndev ratio - Ratio of population Undar 15 end 65 end over to those             daperceenc  of secondery inaticutii...
of ages, 13 through 64.                                                              AdlSlt literacy aeC;-Ltrt           dls(bet        edadwie          spr
Economic dependencly ratio - Ratio Of populationk under 15 and 65 and ovr to              ereo      totaladult populamtio  agdut  (byears rendndover. t)aspr
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.tetgof                                                         ut   pLti       ad15y"      anevr
F401ilY PlanMina - ecceootrs (cunuWtve. thou' - CnA.Letive number of acceptors         Rm 
of birth-control devices under auspices of cacional fanily pluaming progrin                                  -   reag  abr     f eroarerrorinocupe
since inception,                                                                       covntoalv1 igsi           urbanareas     dwellins  pluer noo-pJ.etcpwee
Fanily Planning - usesr fT of married wane) - percentages of married wiom   of           sructLorea anduoccuIed pranarts.       lhli        ecue   o 
chil-beaing  gs (5-44year) wa use birth-control devices to all mmared        Occupied dueltlnsa withou-ied wter (I-Occupied conventional deellinga
vanen in sin  age group.                                          in~~~~~~~~L urban and rural erae" without inside Or Outside piped water facilities
EmpLoymment                                                        u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a percentage Of all occupied dweallings.
Toal lyabor foc      touad                                                                ceesly cieprsn,icldaam  1= to eflectriLci'ty  , of aldmlnw   - convetional d'mellinga with
forces and unetoy"e but excluding housewives, atudants, etc.; definitiona              rural areas.            8csOs8rmtottabltn                    to   bnad
in various countries are not coeperable.                                             Rural dwellinscOnmactad to eLectricity (%; - CamPsted as shove for mrura
Labor force inf agriclture MI   - Agricultural labor force (in farming, foreaty,         dwellings  nly
hunting and fihing) ;aPa pecetage of total labor force.
Oninloved CT of loabr fOrca) - temployad are usually defined as persona who            Coantn
are ableaend wiLling to take a Job, out of a job on a given day, maime4md out        Radoec     iver (my hupe,-Altpso              rciesfrrdobodat
of a Job, and seeking work for a specified sminim  period net gegeding One            to   nrl     pubicpe th-Ousan  of poplation; Of  id     nicne receivers,fradobacst
week ma notbe  ompaabl beteencountries due to different dafinitions           in countries a     nd is  ear when regsteration of radio setses i"o affect;,
of unemployed end source of data, e.g., mplayinc office statstictfs, amtple            data for recent yeamr may not be comparable since meete countries abolished
surveys * cmpuleory uninplo,mnt inurece.                                               licasning.
''             rPassensrcr(ertopo)-aaoger care campriase macor cars seat tug
Incgwa distribution - Psrcentage Of private inomen (both in ceeb and kind)              Lesta      ei':ght pRsona; excludes inbulsoces, hearses and militry
received by richest SE. richest 201, poorest 201. and poorest 401 of house             vehicles.
hotda.                                                                               Electricity                    Anny Prtp'  ual conamNprion of industrial. cRmrciatl.
publicad privat     letIciy in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Distribution of land ownersip - Percencagas of lend owned by wealthimst 101              baseid on prodution data, without 811laseoce for loosess in grids but allow
end poorest 101 of landA amew.                                                         itg for ImPOrt  and emporta of alectriCity.
it  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~~~~~~~~Nmrnt(gy a e)-Per capita conual cone,ption io kilograms
bald andNutrtio                                                                      eatmAeted free     .tic p-roduction plea net imports of newsprint.
= 111.11.=   :.    - Populaticndivided by anmev of practicing
physeicianquaLif   Iiirm, a medical school at university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - NIGER
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976: US$150
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975 *                                        ANNUAL_RATE OF GROWTH (7. CONSTANT 1968 PRICES)
US$ Million     7                           1960-1973             1973-1975
GNP at Market Prices                639.4       100.0
Gross Domestic Investment           118.5       18.6
Gross National Savings               43.4        6.8
Current Account Balance             -85.1      -13.3
Exports of Goods, NFS               167.8        26.2
Imports of Goods, NFS               226.5       35.4
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added (Factor Costs)
US$ million     %
Agriculture                  281.3        47.1
Mining                        28.0         4.7
Industry                      84.1        14.1
Services                     204.2        34.1
Total                        597.6       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
(CFAF billion)             Z of GDP
1975/76   1976/77         1975/76  1976/77
Current Revenues (a)            25.7 (4.5) 32.2 (8.0)       18.7     19.0
Current Expenditures            20.0       23.9             14.6     14.1
Current Balance                 +77        +8.3            -t         4.9
Capital Expenditure             -4.0      -10.3              2.9      6.1
External Assistance              1.5        0.0              1.1
Overall Balance                 +3.2       -2.0              2.3      1.2
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1971     1972     1973      1974     1975     1976
(CFAF billion at end of year)
Money and Quasi Money              12.1     12.9      15.5     20.3     22.3     29.2
Bank credit to Public Sector       -2.3     -3.5     -3.4      -7.2    -11.5    -12.3
Bank credit to Private Sector       9.7     10.7      12.5     21.0     28.5     28.6
PERCENTAGES OR INDEX NUMBERS
General Price Index (1970 = 100) 104.2     114.4     127.8    132.1    144.1    178.1
Annual percentage changes in9
General Price Index                          9.8      11.7      3.4      9.1     23.6
Bank credit to Public Sector        .         .         .
Bank credit to Private Sector       .       10.3      16.8     68.0     35.7      0.4
* Staff estimates
Not available
Not applicable
(a) = revenue from uranium mining.                                                                  December 21, 1977



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - NIGER
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(in millions of current Us$)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                  17          1974*       1975*            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 2/ (1975-76)
Exports of Goods, NFS               128.3        111.0       167.8                             US$ Million        7
Imports of Goods, NFS               168.8        221.4       226.5
Resource Gap (deficit = -)          -40.5       -110.4       -58.7            Livestock            28.4          21.7
Uranium              76.0         58.0
Interest Payments (net)              -3.7         -8.3       -10.7            Groundnuts            9.1           7.0
Workers' Remittances                -16.3        -17.9       -18.7            All other            17.4          13.3
Other Factor Payments (net)           4.1          3.2         3.0               Total            130.9         100.0
Net Transfers                         .._.._
Balance on Current Accounts         -56.4       -133.4       -85.1            EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975
Direct Foreign Investment (net)       0.8          6.9        15.8            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed        231.7
Official Capital Grants              81.4        119.8        77.1            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Net MLT Borrowings                    9.6         10.5        17.0             Total outstanding and disbursed     122.6
Disbursements                  (10.3)       (10.6)      (18.8)           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976
Repayment                       (0.7)        (0.1)       (1.8)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Other items 1/                      -31.3        -10.5       -19.8             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Change in Reserves (end year)         4.1         -6.7         5.0             Total outstanding and disbursed       5.8%
Foreign Reserves (end year)          53.5         44.3        51.4
Fuel and Related Materials                                                     IBRD/IDA LENDING. OCTOBER 31, 1977
Imports:                         .O outstanding and Disbursed                                                  26.8
Undisbursed                           28.4
of which:   Petroleum            6.6         13.1        12.8            Outstanding incl. undisbursed         55.2
Exports:
of which:   Petroleum
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1971:    US$1.00 = CFAF   277.03
1972:    US$1.00 = CFAF   252.21
1973:    US$1.00 = CFAF   222.70
1974:    US$1.00 = CFAF   240.50
1975:    US$1.00 = CFAF   214.32
1976:    US$1.00 = CFAF   245.00
1/  Including errors and omissions.
2/ BCEAO estimates.
*   Staff estimate                                                                      December 21, 1977
Not available
Not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as at March 31, 1978)
Credit                                                         US$ million
Number   Year   Borrower             Purpose            Amount (less cancellation)
IDA      Undisbursed
Six credits fully disbursed                                15.0
441     1973   Republic of Niger    Drought Relief         2.0          0.4
473     1974   Republic of Niger    Niamey Airport         5.0          0.4
608     1975   Republic of Niger    Maradi Rural
Development          10.7         8.0
612     1976   Republic of Niger    Niger Third Highway   15.6         11.7
634     1976   Republic of Niger    Telecommunications
Project              5.2          5.1
Total                                             53.5         25.6
of which has been repaid*
Total now outstanding and held by IDA /1          53.5
Total undisbursed
* $62,396.83 repaid /2
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/2   As at February 28, 1978.
B.   STATEMENT-OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1978)
Nil.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 441     Drought Relief Project, US$2.0 Million; Credit of December 7,
1973; Effectiveness Date: May 7. 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1978
This credit, approved on November 13, 1973, is one of six credits
made to the six Sahelian countries to help the population in drought-affected
areas to reestablish their self-sufficiency through redevelopment and improve-
ment of their farms and herds. The Banque de Development de la Republique
du Niger (BDRN) is serving as the intermediary for channeling funds to the
different Government agencies which have responsibility for the execution
of various sub-projects. This project is nearing satisfactory completion.
Out of the seven sub-projects, five (training scheme, construction of rural
warehouses, spot repairs of a feeder road, engineering studies of an irri-
gation project and construction of erosion control facilities) are completed;
one (protection of gum tree natural groves) is nearly completed and one (con-
struction and operation of calf feeding units) has now begun following delays
due to water supply problems. However, the number of these units was reduced
from six to two because of substantial cost overruns resulting from increases
in the prices of materials and cattle and necessary changes in construction
design.
Credit 473     Niamey Airport Project; US$5.0 Million; Credit of May 24. 1974;
Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1978
This credit provides for improvement to existing facilities so as
to enable modern, large body aircraft to operate safely and economically to
and from Niamey airport, including strengthening and lengthening the runway,
strengthening the taxiway, enlarging and strengthening the aircraft parking
apron as well as the upgrading and relocation of the Instrument Landing
System. The project as originally defined is completed and the airport is
fully operational; final disbursement is expected by end of May 1978 following
delivery of distance measuring equipment (DME).
I/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report problems
which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
Credit 608     Maradi Rural Development Project; US$10.7 Million; Credit
of February 6. 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 8, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides production packages for the improvement of
the productivity of major crops, including groundnuts and millet, in areas
covered by 15 selected "Associations Locales de Cooperatives;" it aims to
strengthen these cooperative institutions, expand educational and training
programs, to develop irrigation potential in the Goulbi de Maradi; to con-
struct one road, to improve livestock services, to increase productivity
of fuel wood plantations and to establish a project education unit. Having
overcome initial delays in implementation due mainly to a shortage of quali-
fied local staff, the project has, in the past year, made considerable pro-
gress. Staffing is virtually complete, and buildings have been constructed.
Preliminary results from the last season indicate that due to poor rainfall,
production varied greatly between districts. Emphasis is therefore being
placed on implementation in order to ensure a well-balanced agricultural
development program.
Credit 612     Third Highway Project; US$15.6 Million; Credit of March 5,
1976; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
This project aims at assisting Government with the implementation
of a four-year program of periodic maintenance, including procurement of equip-
ment and training of specialized public works staff, construction and improve-
ment of the Zinder-Nigerian border road (113 km) and of the Maradi-Nigerian
border road (40 km). The project became effective only on January 31, 1977
due to delays in signature and effectiveness of the co-financiers' loan agree-
ment, and implementation is about one year behind schedule. The contract for
technical assistance and training was signed by Government in November 1977
and will be effective shortly. Bids for road maintenance equipment were
called and should have been received by mid-March 1978. The contract for the
study of the domestic construction industry will be signed shortly. Comple-
tion of construction of the Maradi-Nigerian border road was expected by end
of February and that of the Zinder-Nigerian border road by March 1979.
Credit 634     Telecommunications Project; US$5.2 Million; Credit of
June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: November 9. 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project includes installation of automatic switching equipment
with cable and subscriber distribution networks; provision of trunk switching
equipment, three VHF links and one HF radio link, overhead line and carrier
equipment; civil works, miscellaneous equipment, vehicles and tools and
services of engineering and financial consultants. Project implementation
started in January 1977, about six months behind schedule. ICB is now pro-
gressing satisfactorily. Bidding documents have been approved by IDA and
bid opening is expected in May 1978. Improvements in accounting systems and
procedures, which have been worked out by financial consultants, should be
implemented during 1978. Auditors have not yet been appointed.



ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) First Bank mission to consider the project: Identifi-
cation Mission, February-March 1977
(b) Date of departure of appraisal mission: October 1977
(c) Date of completion of negotiations: April 4, 1978
(d) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1978
Section II: Special Bank Supplementation Actions
The Association will assist the Government in recruiting the expa-
triate staff and consultants.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Curricula for the refresher courses to be given at the national
agricultural training institute (IPDR) of Kolo will be agreed
upon with IDA (para 36 (iv));
(b) INRAN will carry out complementary research within the
framework of the proposed project (para 36 (v));
(c) Terms of reference and the structure of the Project Unit as
well as terms of reference for the consultants and staff,
should be satisfactory to the Association (paras. 37 and 38);
(d) The Government will ensure liaison among the Department of
Genie Rural, INRAN, the Ministry of Public Works and the
other agencies concerned (para 38);
(e) Conditions of effectiveness include:
(i)  Opening of a Special Account (para. 43);
(ii) Allocation of two or three sites totalling about
400 ha on the lower terraces of the Niger River
for the pilot tree plantations (para. 36(i);
(iii)  Appointment of a Project Director (para 38); and
(iv) Recruitment of an experienced agricultural engineer
(Genie Rural specialist) and an equally qualified
specialist in tropical forestry (para. 38).



00             I                                                                       .-....   IB Y
lo C °t°-- l-B Y 8A /6
NIGER
FORESTRY PROJECT
NIGER VALLEY                                                                                            K
ISOHYETS IN MM                                'V
®     NATIONAL CAPITAL
O    'DEPARTEMENT CAPITALS                                                                                               20°
-200 --     DbEPARTEMENTBOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
°     100    290    30  90          __0
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
KILOMETERS,__________
, ,NIGER            ^     
Gr {  s -.   C                        O~~~~~~ AGADEZ     ,,S
\  -}AFRICA 4   200 _              >                             /             |                    /t           161
2                        N >       TAHOUA
r        0          ~~~~~
40_NAEY_ A                                                       .-  OZIN DER     ,DIFFA,                     4
This map has been prepared by the
m   \         \. [  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ / ~~~ World Bank's stawff exctusielfor   _ 
tn8,00                         the convenience of the readers of 2°
reoidBn' sto f w xclusivet fi
m   ,   >_ -   f      the report to v'hicltiteis attached.                                                    12-
C                   *                    *vS \ The denominations used and the  .     ''-
> U   J Pbeoundaries shown on this map                                   DIA
-(                 A                   do not imnply, on the part of the  N  IG   R I  
Lfi                         \ t ^ I  T  A ' t } World Bank and its affiliates, any
v  0   L T~~~ Ajudgment on the legal status of
00             V                tt40  any territory or any endorsement  f                 120
=   X   t^  ,=t       /   4  o~~~~~~~~~~~~r acceptence ofsuE8lboundaries  I                                   Is /I L.



