Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18795
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
CONSTRUCTION CAPACITY AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
CREDIT No. 2455-MAU
January 13, 1999
AFC15
Water and Urban Unit 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =     Ouguiyas (UM)
US$1.00         =     112.7 (at appraisal 1992)
US$1.00               178 (June 1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP         Agence d'Excution des Travaux d'lnteret Public (Public Works Executing
Agency)
AMEXTIPE       Agence Mauritanienne d 'Exccution de Travaux d 'Intre t Public pour I 'Emploi
(Public Works Executing Agency of Mauritania)
BGR            Bureau de Gestion Routiere (Road Management Unit)
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency (also ACDI)
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
IRR            Internal Rate of Return
KfW            Kreditanstaltfur Wiederaujbau (German aid agency)
MET            Ministry of Equipment and Transport
MOI            Ministry of Interior
MON            Municipality of Nouakchott
O&M            Operations and Maintenance
NGO            Nongovemmental Organization
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SME            Small and Medium Enterprises
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:   Hasan Tuluy, CD15
Sector Manager:    Letitia A. Obeng, AFTU2
Task Team Leader:  Abdelghani Inal, AFTT2



.FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
CONSTRUCTION CAPACITY AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Cr. 2455-MAU
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................ , ., .,                                ............
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                  ........................................1
BACKGROUND .............                     ...             ...,.....,,.               ........               1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ......................................              ,,,,,, ..,,,,, ..,., .I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ..............................              ............3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .........................................,,,,,,,,,...8
D. SUSTAINABILITY ................,. . . .,,,                                                             ....9
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ........................., , .                         .,                          ....... 11
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..........................                                                            .l
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ......................... . . .                    ..      . . . . . .... ,l
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ,....,,,.,,,,.,..                                                                     ,12
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ........................, ...,,,,.,,12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ......................,.,.,.,,,,.,,. .... 14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..                                                                           1.4
Table 2: Related Loans and Credits ..........................,,.......... 15
Table 3: Project Timetable ..................,.,.... .,
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$million) ...,                    . ,16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....                                 ..                   . 16
Table 6: Studies Included in Project .............................................. ,l.17
Table 7A: Project Costs (in US$ millions) ............................7     , 
Table 7B: Project Financing ......          .         .          .         ..                   .         .... 17
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants ........................,8....,. IS
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .........................................,.,.19.,,.,,,.. ,9
Table 10: Bank Resources: StaffInputs ..                                                             ,, l9
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions .                                                                         20
ANNEX 1: Aide Memoire of Last Supervision Mission .......................................,,.,..,.,,.,,,.,,.,,.21
ANNEX 2: Summary of Borrower Contribution ..................................   ,     .     ,     .,. 24
MAP No. IBRD 25935
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perform8ce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
CONSTRUCTION CAPACITY AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Cr. 2455-MAU
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Construction Capacity and Employment
Project of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, for which Credit 2455-MAU in the amount of SDR 8.7
million (US$12.55 million) was approved on February 2, 1993 and became effective on September 24,
1993.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1998, six months later than the original closing date, and the last
disbursement was made on December 3, 1998. The remaining amount of SDR 0.02 million (US$0.03
million), resulting mainly from exchange rate variations, has been canceled. Co-financing was provided
by Germany in the amount of US$2.96 million and US$3.22 by the Government. Counterpart
contributions from municipalities amounted to US$2.44 million.
The ICR was prepared by Rumana Huque (Urban Planner) and Abdelghani Inal (Senior Highway
Engineer and Task Team Leader) and was reviewed by Letitia A. Obeng (Sector Manager, AFTU2) and
Hasan Tuluy (Country Director, CD 15). Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final
supervision/completion mission, March 11 to 18, 1998 (the mission's Aide Memoire is in Annex 1). The
Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of project implementation (a summary is
in Annex 2), and by commenting on the draft ICR. Comments were requested from the co-financier,
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaujbau, the World Bank's Mauritania Country Team, and the Bank's Lead
Specialists, and these comments were incorporated in this ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
CONSTRUCTION CAPACITY AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Cr. 2455-MAU
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    After independence Mauritania had the most explosive urban growth among all West African
countries. From 1960 to 1992, its nomadic population dropped from 60% to 7%. Nouakchott, the capital
city, comprising about a third of the total population of the country (with I million inhabitants), grew
about 11% a year in the early 1990s, while the overall population increased about 2.9%. This trend was
exacerbated by the 1990 riots that led to an influx of repatriates from Senegal. Rapid urbanization caused
an imbalance between the demand for employment and urban infrastructure facilities and what the cities
were able to provide. In order to create urban employment, develop private-sector capacity in the
construction industry, and inject much needed financing for basic infrastructure, a delegated contract
management approach called AGETIP (implemented by 'a Public Works Executing Agency) was chosen.
It involved financing a program of essential, small-scale public works aimed at rehabilitating and building
urban infrastructure and facilities, administered by an autonomous agency, and using labor-intensive
technologies.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The main project objectives were to: (i) create, at least temporarily, new employment
opportunities in urban areas; and (ii) undertake economically and socially useful sub-projects. The
development objectives were to demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive projects; test the procedures
that would enable the public sector to commission such projects using delegated contract management;
and improve the skills of workers and competitiveness of firns to develop their capacity to respond to
greater opportunities for sustained activity after project completion.
3.    To achieve these objectives, the project financed: (i) a program of labor-intensive sub-projects
consisting of public works for infrastructure construction and rehabilitation in urban areas and the
highway network; (ii) technical assistance and training for local contractors, engineering and design firms,
and municipalities; and (iii) sectoral studies in the highway and urban sectors. These components were to
be implemented by an autonomous agency, with the legal status of an NGO, called the Agence
Mauritanienne d'Ex6cution des Travaux d'Interet Public pour I 'Emploi or AMEXTIPE (hereafter also
referred to as "the Agency").
4.    The project objectives were realistic. The project design took account of lessons learned from
Senegal and other countries that had similar projects using delegated contract management. Project
objectives were correctly limited to creating employment and rehabilitating and building infrastructure at
a time when both were urgently needed. However, the capacity of AMEXTIPE to provide training to
contractors and workers was overestimated, especially because a large percentage of entrepreneurs and



labor in the country was formerly nomadic traders or farmers, with no skills in masonry and
construction. The main risks identified during appraisal were: (i) the Agency might not survive after the
project, and (ii) the Government might interfere in the Agency's operations. Neither risk materialized.
The Agency has already implemented several projects on behalf of the Govermnent and other donors,
including other World Bank-financed projects, and the Government has respected the Agency's
independence and has not interfered in its operations.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
5.    Achievement of objectives. The main project objectives were successfully achieved. The impact
on employment was substantial with US$15 million invested in civil works, of which US$4.2 million was
for wages to create about 46,600 person-months of direct employment (average wage of UM13,000 per
month). The direct labor ratio as a percentage of the cost of civil works was 30.6%, far higher than the
target of 25%. The ratio of low-wage to high-wage labor was approximately 60 to 40, the target set at
appraisal. In addition, approximately US$1.1 million was spent on local salaries for consultants,
architects, and engineers for the design and supervision of works. Data on indirect employment created
through sub-contracting to and purchasing from local firms was not collected systematically, but
anecdotal evidence suggests that at least an equivalent number of indirectjobs were created in the
production of gravel and sand, carpentry and metal fittings, transport, accounting, and other services.
6.    The impact on physical infrastructure was also substantial. The project financed 134 sub-projects
proposed by five municipalities, less than the 160 conventions estimated at appraisal, in part because one
convention often lumps together several sub-projects. The number of contracts signed, however, was far
higherthan the appraisal estimate (554 versus an estimated 310). In comparison with the other sub-
projects, the accomplishments in the education sector (using 28% of investments) were the most
noteworthy--over 350 classrooms, many in the poorest areas, were rehabilitated or constructed and
equipped with benches, desks, and sanitary facilities. Road improvements (16% of investments) led to
easier traffic patterns, safety for pedestrians, and increased opportunities for economic activity.
Environmental sub-projects (8%) financed the construction of sanitary facilities, the control of sand dunes,
construction of public parks and gardens, and garbage removal. Investment in the health sector (5%) had a
significant impact in Nouadhibou by creating a public surgical center where none existed before. The
project also resulted in increased investment spending by municipalities well beyond the required project
contributions.
7.    The impact on private sector development was substantial. By 1998, the Agency had signed over
500 contracts with engineering/design firms and over 370 contracts with enterprises (using project funds
as well as funds from other donors and the Government). 104 enterprises obtained at least one contract
through AMEXTIPE (compared with a total of 36 enterprises registered at the beginning of the project),
and 61 engineering firms obtained at least one contract (compared to 8 that were originally registered).
The project also opened up opportumities for women engineers and entrepreneurs. This growth was
largely due to the Agency's promptness in paying invoices (within one week for the majority of
payments), which is critical for the survival of smal firms. The growth of SMEs enabled the project to
break the oligopoly that existed in the construction industry in the past, and reduced costs of construction
(by up to 20% in some cases like the education sector).
8.    The development objectives of demonstrating the feasibility of labor-intensive sub-projects and
testing the procedures for delegated contract management were thus successfully achieved. However, not
enough training was carried out, partly because of a lack of interest among contractors and finns to take
advantage of the training offered. The majority of previously informal enterprises and engineering firms



lacked experience and skills in construction, and were slow to leam on the job, sometimes leading to
construction quality problems. Thus, the third development objective, of improving w6rker skills, was
partially achieved.
9.    Economic Evaluation. Economic rates of return varied for different types of sub-projects;
analyses of sample sub-projects revealed these returns: paved roads 20%, unpaved roads 18%, reservoir
15%, and classrooms with administrative blocks 29%.
10.   Costs and delays. The project achieved most of its objectives within the original financial
provisions. Municipality contributions as well as counterpart funding from the Government surpassed the
targets. A six-month delay in execution is attributable to three sub-projects in Nouadhibou where there
were conflicts between the regional governor and the mayor on land management issues.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
11.   Overall, the project achieved most of its objectives and had a positive impact on employment, the
physical environment, and private sector development. It successfully introduced the Government to the
concept of delegated contract management. Borrower performiance was satisfactory, with both the
Government and municipalities providing more than the required amount of counterpart funding. Outside
of the project, municipalities and the Government delegated implementation of sub-projects to
AMEXTIPE from their own financing. Bank performance was satisfactory. The Agency performed well
in general, but was unable to focus enough on ensuring improved construction quality through better
supervision and training of contractors and firms who lacked the requisite skills. A new training strategy
has already been planned by AMEXTIPE, this time in collaboration with national training institutes. The
Agency also needs to cut its operating costs, focus more on results, and function competitively on a fee-
for-service basis.
12.   Sustainability of the system of delegated contract management is uncertain. Although both the
Government and other donors (KfW and CIDA) are using AMEXTIPE to implement projects, and the
Govemnment demonstrated its confidence in the Agency by requesting it to take over aspects of general
procurement, the system will be sustained only ifthe Agency remains competitive and produces quality
results. Sustainability of the sub-projects is also an issue. Operations and maintenance (O&M) is the
responsibility of the institution that commissions the sub-project (either central or local government).
Any future project will need to focus on strengthening the capacity of these institutions to determine
priorities, collect revenues, manage budgets, and ensure adequate O&M of sub-projects. The follow-up
Urban Infrastructure and Pilot Decentralization Project (approved in 1996) aims to strengthen
municipalities with specific measures to improve O&M of sub-projects. It also intends to introduce a law
on delegated contract management to enable the Government to contract out works to any private contract
management firm, thus introducing competition for AMEXTIPE.
13.   Key Lessons.
* Quality of construction needs to be a priority as it impacts both the sustainability of sub-projects
and the sustainability of SMEs. Since many contractors and firms are new entrants in the industry,
they need to be carefully selected, closely supervised and properly trained. To ensure this, selection
and supervision (by the Agency), training (through both the Agency and other means, like national
training institutes), and monitoring (through technical audits) need to be improved and better designed
in projects.
iii



* Developing and strengthening SMEs for greater efficiency. Opening up opportunities for SMEs
enabled the project to break an existing oligopoly in the sector, and reduced costs of construction by
up to 20% in some cases. Future projects should try to anticipate the development and strengthening
of the new SMEs so that they can continue to grow and improve the quality of their output, and thus
produce larger efficiency gains.
*  Sustainability of sub-projects needs to be assured by developing municipal capacities. The
institutions that propose the sub-projects (usually municipalities) are ultimately the ones responsible
for O&M of the facilities. Thus, any future project should take into account the need to strengthen
municipal capacity, especially for O&M.
*  The Agency needs to visualize its future as an independent entity performing a service for a fee.
The Agency needs to realize that its survival depends on whether it can continue to get financing from
the Government budget and other donors--and for that, it needs to produce quality results while
keeping its operating costs low. The Bank, therefore, should be clear from the beginning that
operating costs of the Agency will be financed on a declining basis and urge the Agency to switch to a
fee-for-service system as soon as is feasible. Any subsequent projects using the Agency should not
cover operating costs as a line item, but should agree to pay a pre-determined fee based on results.
Introduce competition for the Agency. Once the concept of delegated contract management is
accepted and supported in a country, municipalities should have a choice in terms of which agency
they employ for the delegation of contract management. A law allowing government entities to
contract out works to any private agency should be passed.
iv



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
CONSTRUCTION CAPACITY AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Cr. 2455-MAU
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
BACKGROUND
1.    Since independence, Mauritania experienced the most explosive urbanization of all countries in
West Africa. From 1960 to 1992, its nomadic population fell from 60% to a mere 7%. Rapid
urbanization was the tesult of various factors, including droughts, ineffective macroeconomic and
agricultural policies, and a growing mining sector. Nouakchott, the capital city, comprising about a third
of the total population of the country (with 1 million inhabitants), grew 11% a year in the early 1990s,
while overall population growth was 2.9%. This trend was exacerbated by the 1990 riots which led to an
influx of repatriates from Senegal. The rapid urbanization caused an imbalance between the demand for
employment and infrastructure facilities and what the cities were able to provide. Unemployment
worsened because (i) employment growth in the public sector was constrained by structural adjustment
programs; (ii) the formal private sector relied on capital intensive techniques even for manual jobs; and
(iii) many of the migrants were unskilled laborers.
2.    An approach that was started in Senegal and tested in other countries was chosen to create urban
employment, develop local private-sector capacity, and inject much needed financing for basic
infrastructure. The approach, known as the AGETIP approach, entails financing a program of essential,
small-scale public works projects aimed at creating and rehabilitating urban infrastructure and facilities,
administered by an autonomous agency using labor-intensive technologies. The execution of this program
was expected to develop the capacity of local contractors and firms in the construction industry, have a
positive impact on urban employment (at least in the short-term) through the use of labor-intensive
technologies, and at the same time, create or rehabilitate basic infrastructure.
A.    STATEMENTVEVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Al.   Project Objectives
3.    The main project objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were to: (i) create, at
least temporarily, new employment opportunities in urban areas; and (ii) undertake economically and
socially useful sub-projects. The development objectives were to: (i) demonstrate the feasibility of labor-
intensive projects; (ii) test the procedures that would enable the public sector to commission such projects
and delegate contract management (maltrise d 'ouvrage del6gu6e); and (iii) improve, through the
execution of the works financed by the project, workers' skills and the competitiveness of firms and so
develop their capacity to respond to increased opportunities for sustained activity after project completion.
The methodologies used during project implementation were meant to combine the benefits of low cost
with high impact and visibility, and were also expected to achieve several associated objectives. These
included avoiding the need to increase the civil service; supporting other development programs by
1



efficiently executing their sub-projects related to infrastructure; using transparent, expeditious, and
flexible procedures for sub-project appraisal, procurement, and disbursement; and providing sustainable
technical and managerial assistance to contractors.
4.    To achieve these objectives, the project financed:
*  A program of labor-intensive sub-projects comprising a public works program of facility and
infrastructure construction and rehabilitation in urban areas, and the protection of sections of the
national highway network from sand-dune encroachment;
*  Technical assistance and training comprising training services for local contractors, and
engineering/design fimns; a training program for municipalities to evaluate the feasibility and
soundness of sub-projects; and a program to increase grassroots participation in maintenance;
*  Sectoral studies of the highway sector to strengthen the Ministry of Equipment and Transport's ability
to better manage and finance road maintenance; urban sector studies to assist the Municipality of
Nouakchott to enhance city management and prepare an action plan for developing the domestic
construction industry;
*  Goods and equipment for the executing agency and participating institutions, operating fees for the
agency and other related project management activities.
5.    These components were implemented by an autonomous executing agency with the legal status of
an NGO, called the Agence Mauritanienne d 'Excution des Travaux d 'Inkr&t Public pour I 'Emploi, or
AMEXTIPE (hereafter also referred to as "the Agency"). The project's activities were limited at first to
one city, Nouakchott, for three reasons: (i) the need for the new agency to establish itself and start
operating where a critical mass of expertise (contractors, engineers, consultants) existed; (ii) the fact that
the majority of the poor are located in this city, which constitutes about one-third of the total population;
and (iii) the belief that only this municipality was willing and capable of providing the required
counterpart funds. It was expected that, when the Agency demonstrated its effectiveness, it would soon
expand its operations to other municipalities.
A2.   Evaluation of Objectives and Risks
6.    The objectives of the project were realistic. The project took into account lessons learned from the
experience in Senegal and other countries that had similar projects using delegated contract management.
The project correctly limited its goals to employment creation and the rehabilitation and construction of
infrastructure at a time when there was an urgent need for both. However, the project overestimated
AMEXTIPE's capacity to provide adequate training for workers and entrepreneurs to become adept
quickly at construction. This was particularly significant in Mauritania because a large percentage of
entrepreneurs and unskilled labor was formerly nomadic traders or farmers, with no skills in masonry and
construction.
7.    Two main risks were identified during appraisal: (i) the Agency might not be able to survive after
project completion, and (ii) the Government might interfere in the Agency's operations. Neither risk
materialized. The Government adopted the concept of delegated contract management, and the Agency
has already implemented projects on behalf of the Government and other donors, and will soon operate
systematically on a fee-for-service basis. The Government supported the Agency's independence and did
not interfere in its operations.
2



B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.     The degree of achievement of project objectives can be measured by the impacts on employment
creation, physical infrastmeture, and local private-sector firms and enterprises. Development objectives
are measured by assessing to what extent delegated contract management is acceptable and feasible for the
implementation of government projects; and by assessing workers' skills and competitiveness of firms.
The full set of key performance indicators, as set in the SAR are given in Table 5. The project objectives
were successfully achieved; the achievement of development objectives was partial.
B1.   Achievement of Project Objectives
Impact on employment
9.     Achievement of this objective was substantial. The project aimed to invest US$13.27 million in
civil works contracts and create 3,400 person-years, or 40,800 person-months of employment. By the
closing date, the project had invested approximately US$15 million in civil works (about US$8 million
from IDA, US$2.44 million from municipal contributions, US$2.45 million from the German aid agency
KfW, and US$2.2 million from the Government)1. Approximately US$4.2 million (UM 605.4 million) of
this amount was spent on wages, and created about 46,600 person-months of direct employment, at an
average wage of UM 13,000 per month2. The ratio of direct labor to capital costs, calculated as a
percentage of the cost of civil works, was 30.6% for the project as a whole, far higher than the target. It is
worth noting that the labor ratio achieved by this project is higher than the labor ratio achieved by most
other AGETIP-type agencies in the region (the ratio is 20% for AGETIPE-Mali and 25.5% for AGETIP-
Senegal). The ratio of low-wage to high-wage labor was about 60:40, which meets the appraisal target
(low wage is defined as a wage below 1.5 times the legal minimum wage). In addition, approximately
US$1.1 million was spent on local salaries for consultants, architects and engineers for the design and
supervision of works.
10.   These figures do not take into account the indirect employment that was created. Each dollarlUM
spent under a public works contract has a secondary impact on the local economy through subcontracting
to and purchasing from local firms. Data on indirect employment was not collected systematically.
However, anecdotal evidence suggests that at least an equivalent number of indirect jobs were created in
the production of gravel and sand, carpentry and metal fittings, transport, accounting, and other services.3
11.   The project financed the construction of several training centers for women in making handicrafts
(Centre d 'auto emploiffminin). In a conservative Islamic nation where women and men are not
lMs report uses an exchange rate of UM144 to a dollar as the average rate over the project period, calculated by
dividing the total amount of ouguiyas disbursed under the IDA credit (from AMEXTIPE records) by the total
US dollar equivalent disbursed (from World Bank records).
2If we use the average wage figure of UMI0,000 per month estimated at appraisal, the number of person-months of
employment created is 60,500. AMEXIPE estimates an average wage of UM18,000 per month currently,
which translates to 33,600 person-months of employment. However, both these wage rates are considered
unrealistic. Based on conversations with contractors and workers, this report uses UM13,000 per month as a
more realistic average wage for the project period.
3 The mid-term evaluation of the Mali-AGETIPE project estimated that the impact on indirect employment of the
AGETIPE was about 1.5 times the direct employment created.
3



encouraged to mix in public, this provided a unique opportunity for women entrepreneurs to learn and
start their own small businesses. In addition, open competition between engineering/design firms allowed
women to compete for contracts in an industry traditionally dominated by men (see Box 1). The impact
on gender equity is thus rated partial.
Box 1: Providing employment opportunities to women
A woman engineer, Madame Abdallahi, competed for and won a small contract as the lowest bidder with the right
qualifications. She started with nothing, no office, no computer, no transport. She went to the sites by taxi, and
wrote her reports by hand in her living room. But she performed well, delivered on time and within budget. As a
result, she was able to win a larger contract the next time. Madame Abdallahi has now acquired an office, hires
another woman and a man, and has an established firn. Opportunities like this for women, especially in this
industry, would have been untiinkable in the absence of an agency like AMEXTIPE. Although the Agency still has
a long way to go (only 4 out of the 61 fens that won AMEXTIPE contracts are run by women), it is a significant
step in a country like Mauritania.
Impact on physical infrastructure
12.    Achievement of the physical infrastructure objective was substantial. The choice of sub-projects
was left to the beneficiaries, i.e. the institutions that commission sub-projects, in this case, municipalities
or central government. This was intended to ensure that the project would finance works that were of
priority for the beneficiaries. By closing, the project financed 134 sub-projects in five municipalities.
This was less than the 160 conventions estimated at appraisal, which can partly be explained by the fact
that several sub-projects are often lumped together. For example, a municipality which commissioned the
building of schools signed one convention to build several schools of the same design all over the
municipality. The total amount invested in sub-projects, however, was higher than estimated at appraisal
(US$15 million versus US$13.6 million), and the number of contracts signed was also higher than the
appraisal estimate (554 versus 310).
13.    The sectoral distribution of investments, as of December 31, 1997, is shown in the chart below.
Table 1: Distribution of Investments
Distribution of Total Investments              Distribution of Sub-projects by Financier
Other social  Admin
Health  4%    buildings            State buildings       20       0      77
5%           (state)             Municipal buildings      7      0       0
Ras  .    ~'Education                                      26     50      1 5
1%                Admin A
Roads  j     a     buildings         Roads                  21      12       0
Markets          (municipal)         Markets                 3     34       0
8%sinnmt     Educat*5%               Other social           11      0       5
Emi4ronment    Edcto
8%           28%                   Environment              8      0       0
Health                  4      4       3
Total:                100    100    100
14.    The highest investment (28% of the total) was in the education sector. In comparison with other
sub-projects, the accomplishments in the education sector were the most noteworthy--over 350 classrooms
were rehabilitated or built and equipped with desks, benches, and toilets, leading to a tremendous
4



improvement in the conditions under which children learn, especially in the schools in the poorest areas
(see Box 2). The high percentage figure for administrative buildings for central goverriment reflects the
fact that 77% of sub-projects fully financed by the Government were for such buildings. Road
improvements (16% of investments) led to easier traffic circulation, safety for pedestrians, and greater
opportunities for commercial activity along the roadsides, with people turning rooms in their homes into
small shops. Environmental sub-projects (8% of investments) financed the construction of sanitary
facilities, clearing garbage off residential areas and streets, construction of public parks and gardens, and
control of sand dunes. The procedures employed through AMEXTIPE for garbage collection were so
successful that they are being adopted in other areas where the Agency had no projects. In the health
sector, although the amount of investment was small (5% of the total), the impact in terms of increasing
access of an entire city to medical facilities was substantial. This was noted in Nouadhibou, where
building of the only public surgical center in the city enabled people to avoid hundreds of miles of travel
to either Nouakchott or Las Palmas and long waits for simple surgeries. Other social infrastructure (4% of
the total) financing stadiums, playgrounds, and centers for women and for youth, also had a positive
impact by improving the quality of life of the population.
Box 2: Impact on education
Due to the shortage of classrooms, one school complex in Nouadhibou used to house two different primary schools,
with one school holding classes in a morning shift (8 a.m. to 1 p.m.) and the second school taking over in the
afternoon shift (1 p.m. to 6 p.m.). Under the project, classrooms were rehabilitated and a new school constructed
nearby. This has enabled students in that area (one of the poorest areas in the city) to attend normal school hours,
and class sizes have gone down from 120 students per class, sitting on the floor, to about 60 students, seated on
tables and chairs (the tables and chairs were also financed through the project). In addition, the project installed
toilets in the schools where none existed before.
15.   The project had a positive, unintended benefit also. Municipal investment in infrastructure
increased substantially during project implementation. The project invested about US$4 million (UM567
million) in Nouakchott. With the required counterpart funding of 10% of project costs in the beginning,
rising to 20% and then 30% in later years, an average increase in municipal spending of some US$0.2
million each year would be expected. Spending, however, increased from US$0.1 million a year before
the project began, to about US$1 million towards completion, a much faster rate than required by the
project. While it is difficult to make a direct correlation between the project and municipal spending, the
increase is large enough to indicate that the project had some influence in inducing the municipalities to
increase investments in infrastructure.
Table 2: Expenditures on Infrastructure
Municipality of Nouakchott
Expenditure on infrastructure    13.3   12.1   101.3   106.4   171.6   133.7
(million Ul)_
Expenditure on infrastructure   0.09    0.08    0.70    0.74    1.19    0.93
(million US$)         I_     I               I               I _
16.    The financing provided through this project is meeting a great need in the cities. This can be seen
in the innovative methods the municipalities are employing to provide the necessary counterpart funds to
become eligible for funding. In Aleg, for example, six communes got together and lent money to the Aleg
municipality for the upfront counterpart funds (to be paid back over three years). Rosso has a sister city in
France which wanted to give a gift of cars to the municipality. The mayor instead requested the sister city
to complement Rosso's counterpart requirement by financing school desks and chairs for 120 classrooms
5



(the desks and chairs were manufactured using local small- and medium-size enterprises (SMEs)). In
Nouakchott, the mayor leased stalls for a market to future users and obtained 3 years of advance rent
before construction in order to collect the necessary counterpart funds.
Impact on local private sector development
17.   The project had a substantial impact on local SMEs and engineering/design firms. Before the
project, an oligopoly of about a dozen enterprises dominated the construction industry. Another 20
smaller enterprises carried out small contracts and rehabilitation works, and a group of local artisans,
usually unregistered, survived on sub-contracts from the larger firms. A dozen engineering firms, the
majority of which were modest establishments, often poorly organized, formed the Federation of
Mauritanian Consultants.
18.   This oligopoly in the construction industry was successfully broken through the project. When
AMEXTIPE was created, it launched a massive publicity campaign (including TV announcements)
encouraging all interested firms to submit dossiers to the Agency. The opportunities provided by the
project led to an enormous increase in the number of qualified local companies in the construction
industry. By 1998, the Agency had signed over 500 contracts with engineering/design finns and over 370
contracts with enterprises (financed through this project as well as by other donors and the Government).
During project implementation, 104 enterprises received at least one contract through AMEXTIPE,
compared to a total of 34 enterprises registered at the beginning of the project. Similarly, 61 engineering
firms received at least one contract through AMEXTIPE, compared to a total of 8 that were registered in
the beginning. The firms receiving contracts were selected competitively from a far higher number
currently registered with the Agency (almost 15 times the number originally registered). This indicates
the high level of competition that the project introduced within the local construction industry.
Competition resulted in much lower construction costs. In the education sector, for example, costs of
construction under this project were 20% lower than costs under an IDA-financed project which used
traditional procurement procedures and employed large firms.
19.   For the majority of SMEs, working with the Agency was their first experience in submitting bids
and carrying out work based on a formal contractual arrangement, since previously they relied mostly on
family connections and friends for work, Because of the inexperience of firms and enterprises, during the
early stages of the project, AMEXTIPE spent considerable time and effort to familiarize SMEs with
procedures and regulations. Although the Agency did not collect systematic data on the impact on
individual contractors, many contractors provided feedback to AMEXTIPE showing that they had become
more competitive and were able to get contracts outside of AMEXTIPE as a result of the experience
gained. This process also produced a level playing field for women entrepreneurs to compete for
contracts. Although the Agency still has a long way to go (only 4 out of 61 firms that won AMEXTIPE
contracts were run by women), it was a significant step in a country like Mauritania (see Box 1).
Impact of sectoral studies and technical assistance
20.   Highway sector. This sub-component aimed to resume a dialogue between the Ministry of
Equipment and Transport and donors on road maintenance issues, with the objective of building a
consensus on a comprehensive road maintenance policy and establishment of a sound road management
system. To this end, the project helped to create a Road Management Unit within the Directorate of
Public Works, which is in charge of setting up a road maintenance strategy and an annual program for its
implementation. The unit is now fully staffed and operational, and should lead to improved operations
and maintenance for all roads investments, both under this project and in general. A study on traffic
6



patterns and trends was also completed. However, the Roads Sector Commission (Commission
Sectorielle Routiere), set up to define a national strategy for the sector, has not yet completed its mission.
21.   Urban sector. A fiscal study was carried out with the objective of improving tax collection at the
municipal level. For the Municipality of Nouakchott, the administrative reorganization and
computerization of data led to improved management, especially in budgetary control. The solid-waste
management studies laid the groundwork for privatization of garbage collection, which is being used more
and more by the municipality. An action plan for the city of Nouakchott was used for the short term
planning of works and services. However, only about half of the allocation was spent for this sub-
component, as the main product, developing a national urban development strategy, has not been
completed.
B2.   Achievement of Development Objectives
22.   The development objectives of demonstrating the feasibility of labor-intensive sub-projects and
testing the procedures for delegated contract management were, as evidenced from the above, successfully
achieved. The third development objective was improving worker's skills and firm competitiveness.
Competitiveness of firms has improved in the sense that many more firms are currently qualified and
actively compete for contracts. However, the quality of the work produced by the finns was uneven, with
some firms producing works of high quality, and others not performing well.
23.   AMEXTIPE organized four formal training sessions for contractors, benefiting in all about 70
SMEs. These sessions included preparation of bid proposals, works organization and management,
pricing, and accounting. Separate sessions were organized for about a dozen engineering/design firms.
The project budgeted US$700,000 for training, but by project completion less than 10% of this amount
had been used, due in part to a lack of interest in training among contractors. Although some contractors
were badly in need of training, they were unwilling to attend the training sessions, even though they were
free of charge. In addition, the majority of contractors did not have a permanent workforce, and tended to
hire groups of workers as the need arose. Thus, the contractors had little incentive to train their workers.
Due to slow progress in enhancing workers' skills through training and improved supervision, the
achievement of development objectives is rated partial (the quality issue is discussed in more detail in
paragraphs 28 and 29).
B3.   Economic Evaluation
24.   The economic analysis at appraisal estimated that the internal rates of return (IRR) for sub-
projects would range between 17% and 44%, with the education sector achieving the highest (42-44%).
The analyses for a sample of sub-projects during implementation produced these results: paved roads
20%, unpaved roads 18%, reservoir 15%, and classrooms with administrative blocks 29%. These IRRs
were calculated by taking account of factors such as vehicle operating costs, reduced cost of services, and
avoided cost of rehabilitation. The IRRs were above the minimum 12% required and show that the
selection of sub-projects was economically justified.
7



C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING TILE PROJECT
25.   Factors subject to government control. From the beginning, the project had strong support from
the Mauritanian Authorities at the highest levels. The Government has not pressured the Agency in any
way, and did not interfere in its day-to-day operations. Government support and commitment were major
factors in ensuring the success of this new method of delegating the contracting of works to an
autonomous agency. Different ministries and municipalities relied on AMEXTIPE to execute projects
using their own funds, and recognizing AMEXTIPE's efficiency, the Government even asked the Agency
to carry out urgent procurement of a number of large government contracts.
26.   Nevertheless some problems persist. In several municipalities, problems were encountered in
making sites available on time for construction. Some sub-projects had to be changed or canceled because
of land management problems, especially with regard to whether the land in question belonged to the state
or to the municipality. Operations and maintenance (O&M) of the infrastructure constructed are the
responsibility of the institutions that commission the sub-project, that they themselves pledge to meet as a
condition of financing. However, O&M remains a weakness. Depending on the technical and financial
resources of municipalities, facilities are sometimes well maintained and operated, but not at other times.
27.   Factors subject to implementing agency control. In meeting the project's primary objectives,
AMEXTIPE performed well in promoting the local private sector and building infrastructure. By means
of communication, transparent procedures, and deliberate measures to win over the groups that opposed
this system of contracting works (a member of the opposition party served on the committee to select the
Technical Director; three of the most critical j oumals in the nation were -invited to freely investigate the
Agency), the Agency won the trust of both the private sector and Government. It made strong efforts to
ensure that payments to contractors were made within a very short time (payments are now issued twice a
week, resulting in about 65% of invoices being paid within a week, compared to the appraisal target of 30
days), a factor that is critical to the survival of fledgling firms.
28.   The Agency, however, still faces a number of problems. The management skills of contractors
and the quality of construction have not improved as was expected during project implementation.
Because many contractors were new to the job, it was expected that quality of construction might suffer at
the beginning of the project. Proper supervision, formal training, and on-the-job training were built into
the project design to ensure that there would be a steep learning curve, and it was expected that quality
would continue improving. Although the mid-term technical audits indicated that the quality of
construction under AMEXTIPE was better than under regular government procurement, and in fact
improved from one batch of sub-projects to the next, this did not happen consistently. There is a large
discrepancy in the quality of works, with some firms doing an excellent job and others, lacking skills or
commitment, performing poorly. The experience of the project showed that the majority of unskilled
workers, mostly nomads migrating to the city, have little aptitude in construction work. As a result of
these problems, only 65% of the sub-projects were completed on time and 74% within budget (the rapid
devaluation of the currency and increase in cement prices have also had an impact on completing sub-
projects within budgets).
29.   As mentioned in paragraph 23, AMEXTIPE organized various training sessions for all the
stakeholders, including the new engineering/design firms. However, the Agency should have been more
careful in supervision of works and should have provided more effective training programs and developed
better incentives for training workers. Nevertheless, it is important to note that AMEXTIPE was not set
up to specialize in training, and by placing the full responsibility of organizing and delivering training to
contractors, workers, engineers, as well as municipalities and communities, the project might have
8



overburdened the Agency. Future projects might be better off organizing training through other means,
for example, through collaboration with national training institutes. That being said, the Agency could
have nevertheless placed more effort in project supervision and should have used annual technical audits
more seriously as a means of monitoring the quality of its output.
30.   The Agency's operating costs are also becoming an issue since these are almost 50% higher than
estimated at appraisal. A major increase in income taxes forced the Agency to raise salaries in order to
remain competitive with the rest of the private sector. The Agency also took on activities outside this
project, including large components of World Bank-financed agricultural and education projects which
involved sub-projects dispersed throughout the country, as well as the full responsibility for the follow-up
Urban Infrastructure and Pilot Decentralization Project. These activities led to increased administrative,
transportation, and logistical costs. The weak quality of contractors led to long delays in implementation,
also raising the Agency's costs. The ratio of operating costs to cumulative activities of the Agency stands
at 10.7% (compared with the appraisal estimate of 9.5%) for the entire project life from 1993 to the end of
1997. The ratio for 1997 was 6.4%, indicating that some progress was made in reducing costs, but it still
remains too high. The Agency needs to reduce the operating cost ratio to less than 5%. This could be
better achieved if AMEXTIPE started to operate strictly on a fee-for-service basis. This might entail
expanding its volume of activities (which would mean increasing the productivity of the existing
personnel at AMEXTIPE), and would, at the same time, force the Agency to become more competitive
and focus more on results.
31.   Costs and delays. The project achieved most of its objectives within the original financial
provisions. Municipal counterpart contributions and Government funding surpassed original targets (see
Table 7B). A six-month delay in execution is attributable to three sub-proj ects in Nouadhibou where there
were conflicts between the regional governor and the mayor on land management issues.
D.    SUSTAINABILYry
32.   The project's system of delegated contract management represents an institutional model through
which the Government can carry out its business more efficiently and effectively. Sustainability can be
measured at two levels: (i) the sustainability of the model (whether governments and donors will continue
to use delegated contract management to implement sub-projects); and (ii) the sustainability of the sub-
projects implemented under the project.
33.   Sustainability of the concept of delegated contract management. Sustainability of delegated
contract management is uncertain. AMEXTIPE gained the confidence of donors and the Government,
demonstrated by their additional financing through a new project, the Urban Infrastructure and Pilot
Decentralization Project (1996) and other World Bank-financed projects (in agriculture, education and
health) that are using AMEXTIPE to implement major civil works components. In addition, both
ministries and municipalities are employing the Agency to implement projects from their own funds (total
cumulative activities for the Agency were about US$40 million by the end of 1997). By asking
AMEXTIPE to carry out procurement of large civil works contracts, the Government showed that it
recognizes the benefits of using delegated contract management in other sectors as well, and is willing, in
principle, to open up contracting to more efficient and transparent methods. However, use of delegated
contract management will be sustained only if (i) the Government enacts a law on contract management to
allow government entities to contract out works to private firms; and (ii) the Agency is able to stay
efficient and competent. Learning from this project experience, the follow-up project aims to pursue the
passing of such a law.
9



34.    The efficiency of the Agency was discussed in paragraph 30. The Agency's performance also
depends on the sustainability of the new SMEs that the project spawned. In order to remain competitive,
contractors and firms need to enhance the quality of their work. Recognizing this, AMEXTIPE is
changing its approach to training in order to provide greater incentives for workers to attend seminars and
training sessions (see Box 3). Despite these efforts, an important lesson of the AMEXTIPE experience is
that placing the Agency in charge of training may be asking too much of an institution whose expertise
should be purely in contract management. Training is critical, both for the success of the project and for
the sustainability of SMEs. Therefore, projects of this type should place a strong emphasis on training,
but develop more innovative methods for its delivery, like for example, collaborating with national
training institutes. In doing so, however, it would be important to ensure that the training offered is
correctly targeted and meets contractors' demonstrated needs.
Box 3: Improving trainingfor thefuture
AMEXTIPE has designed a new strategy to encourage contractors to attend training sessions. Currently, every
eligible contractor is classified in categories according to the following factors: financial viability, technical
expertise, experience in the field, and the number of skilled personnel employed. Each factor is graded, and the total
number of points establishes the category the firm is classified into (the total required points for each category is
fixed). Recognizing the commercial orientation of frins in Mauritania, AMEXTIPE will, in the future, offer fnns
the oppormuity to qualify for a higher category and thus to submit bids for larger contracts ifthey undertake the
appropriate training. Under this new system, smaller firms would be able to change their categories and bid for
larger contracts, if they show proof of having attended a certain type of training that would enhance the quality of
their work. Thus, a bid that would normally be open only to Category III finns, for example, would also become
open to Category II fmns with proof of a certain type of training completed. The traiing is being organized with
national training institutes in the country to ensure standardization and not to restrict the availability of trainiing
sessions only to the ones that AMEXTIPE itself can organize.
35.    In addition to training, to survive in the longer term, these new SMEs need to consolidate their
experience and continue to grow and take on more and bigger contracts. If projects of this type measure
their success by the number of new SMEs registered, there is a danger that the new SMEs will not have
enough work and will not be able to grow. Projects therefore need to look ahead and consider an optimal
number of SMEs in the sector (relative to demand) and then focus on strengthening and developing them,
rather than encouraging more entrants into the industry. An association of SMEs could be considered
which would establish qualifications and standards for membership and address issues and problems that
SMEs face collectively.
36.    Sustainability of sub-projects. The sustainability of sub-projects is uncertain because it depends
largely on O&M, which is technically and financially the responsibility of the institutions that
commission sub-projects (mainly municipalities). While some municipalities operated and maintained
their facilities well, others lacked either the financial resources or technical/management capacity to carry
out their responsibility. The project took some measures to address the O&M of facilities, but it focused
mainly on ownership and participation issues. By ensuring that proposals originated directly from
municipalities/ministries, and by requiring a contribution to project costs, the project aimed to respond to
real needs. For sub-projects that could involve community participation (like latrines/sanitation, garbage
collection, and dune fixing), communities were sensitized and, to a certain degree, participated in the
implementation. Ownership and participation, however, are necessary but not sufficient to ensure proper
O&M, as could be seen by the poor track record of some facilities. Learning from the experience of this
project, stricter measures are being taken for O&M in the follow-up project (see Box 4).
10



Box 4: Improving O&Mfor thefuture
The follow-up Urban Infrastructure and Pilot Decentralization Project (1996) focuses on strengthening the capacities
(technical, financial, and management) of municipalities to manage urban services better, and holds them
accountable to agreed standards for O&M. This is done through "municipal contracts", which municipalities sign
with the Ministry of Interior (Direction des Collectivite Locales-DCL). In order to be eligible for financing, each
municipality has to carry out a municipal infrastructure inventory, prepare a public investment program, and sign a
municipal contract with the DCL. To ensure ownership, municipalities choose the sub-projects they wish
AMEXTIPE to implement and are required to contribute 10/o-25% of project costs (50% for revenue-generating
sub-projects). The municipal contract lays out performance indicators for the municipality, including benchmarks
for resource mobilization and management, service effectiveness, O&M, cost-recovery, and investments. The
contracts are formally published and discussed in public meetings "sous la tente", reflecting the traditional consensus
building practice. Audits of the municipal contracts are published, enabling citizens to hold the municipalities
accountable to their performance.
E.    BANK PERFORMANCE
37.    Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank was able to take advantage of its experience with
AGETIP projects in a number of other West African countries (such as Senegal, Mali, Burkina Faso, and
Niger) in the design and preparation of this project. Pilot activities were carried out to tailor the design to
Mauritanian realities. The project was identified and approved within one year. The Bank team included
staff who had been closely involved with AGETIP projects elsewhere, and the project benefited greatly
from the assistance of the director of the AGETIP in Niger during preparation. Fifteen supervision
missions were conducted over the project period. However, supervision could have been enhanced by
having a financial analyst examine AMEXTIPE's financial accounts with more scrutiny during
implementation.
F.     BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38.    Performance of Government was satisfactory. The Government demonstrated strong
commitment to the project--it did not interfere in operations, there were no problems with counterpart
funds, and it complied fully with legal covenants. In addition, it delegated to AMEXTIPE the
implementation of several sub-projects financed from the Government's own funds. However, problems
with O&M and ownership of land for sub-projects persist, despite continuing discussion. On the O&M
issue, the Government has agreed to new measures to ensure improved O&M of sub-projects in future.
39.    Performance of the implementing agency was also satisfactory. AMEXTIPE performed well in
promoting the local private sector and creating infrastructure. However, it needs become more efficient by
cutting its operating costs, and focus more on results and improve contractor selection and sub-project
supervision to ensure the quality of works. Details on the performance of the Agency are given in
previous sections of this report.
G.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40.    Overall, project outcome is rated satisfactory. Project objectives were fully achieved. The project
had a positive impact on the population; created employment at a critical stage; promoted the growth of
the local SMEs in the construction industry; and provided much needed infrastructure in the cities. In the
education sector specially, it improved tremendously the environment in which children are able to leam.
As for its development objectives, it proved that delegated contract management is feasible and acceptable
11



in the country, both by Government and by the private sector. Improving worker skills remains a
challenge, and new approaches to training and motivating contractors need to be taken quickly as this has
a significant impact on the sustainability of both SMEs and of the sub-projects.
41.   The Agency commissioned a local consultant to conduct interviews with users, laborers,
beneficiaries of solid-waste services, and government institutions (central and local governmuent) as part of
project completion. These interviews reveal a great sense of ownership of projects, among both
govemments and the users. For communities, the most visible impacts of the project were the reduction in
the amount of garbage in the streets and in their neighborhoods, easier traffic flows and parking areas, the
spurt of economic activity along the roadsides, the diminution of sand on roads due to the fixing of dunes,
and improved security for pedestrians.
H.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
42.   This project successfully introduced a new method of implementing civil works projects through
a simplified and efficient process of delegated contract management. AMEXTIPE is already
implementing major components of three IDA-financed operations (in the agriculture, education, and
health sectors). In addition, because of the high demand for infrastructure financing from municipalities, a
follow-up project, the Urban Infrastructure and Pilot Decentralization Project (Cr. 2835) for some US$24
million was launched and became effective in August 1996. This project took account of the main lessons
from this project, including the need to strengthen the capacity of municipalities, ensure proper O&M, and
improve training for contractors. The project also aims to pass a law on delegated contract management
which would allow govemment entities to contract out works to the private sector, and thus introduce
competition for AMEXTIPE.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
43.   The project showed that an autonomous, privately managed, local agency is capable of executing
works efficiently and effectively on behalf of public institutions, without the help of external technical
assistance. Some of the key lessons leamed from this project are the following:
  Quality of construction needs to be a priority as it impacts both the sustainability of sub-projects
and the sustainability of SMEs. Since many contractors and firms are new entrants in the industry,
they need to be carefully selected, closely supervised and properly trained. To ensure this, the Agency
needs to be more careful in its selection process, give more attention to sub-project supervision, and
hold design/engineering firms accountable for quality (technical audits should be taken more seriously
as a monitoring tool). Training needs to be given more emphasis, particularly technical training. The
Agency should not necessarily be the body responsible for organizing and delivering the training, at
the risk of overburdening the Agency with tasks it does not have expertise in. Rather, alternative
arrangements, like collaboration with national training institutes, should be explored. Where
contractors are reluctant to attend training, other incentives need to be put in place, like linking
eligibility to bid for contracts to evidence of having attended certain types of training.
*  Developing and strengthening SMEs for greater efficiency. The project was able to break the
oligopoly in the construction industry by opening up opportunities for SMEs. This led to reduced
costs of construction of up to 20% in some cases. Future projects could expand this potential and
produce larger efficiency gains by consolidating and strengthening the new SMEs. One way would be
to organize SMEs into an association which would establish qualifications and standards for
12



membership and address issues and problems that SMEs face collectively. It could also deal with
training needs. By anticipating the strengthening and development of SMEs (beyoind just spawning
hundreds of new enterprises), future projects might be able to address both the sustainability concern
and quality concerns, and produce larger efficiency gains.
*  Sustainability of sub-projects needs to be assured by developing municipal capacities. In order
for sub-projects to be sustainable, the institutions that propose the sub-projects (usually
municipalities) need to have the financial and technical capacity to make correct choices, and manage
and finance O&M. Any future project should take into account the need to strengthen municipal
capacity, especially for O&M. This includes both technical and managerial capacity, as well as
improving revenue generation and tax collection.
*  The Agency needs to visualize its future as an independent entity performing a service for a fee.
While it may be necessary for a Bank project to finance operating costs of the Agency during its first
years, the Agency needs to realize that its survival depends on whether it can continue to get financing
from the Government budget and other donors--and for that, it needs to produce quality results while
keeping its operating costs low. As such, the Bank should be clear from the beginning that operating
costs of the Agency will be financed on a declining basis and urge the Agency to switch to a fee-for-
service system as soon as is feasible. Any subsequent projects using the Agency should not cover
operating costs as a line item, but should agree to pay a predetermined fee based on results.
-  Introduce competition for the Agency. Once the concept of delegated contract management is
accepted and supported in a country, municipalities should have a choice in which agency they
employ for the delegation of contract management. A law allowing government entities to contract
out works to any private agency should be passed. By introducing competition in this manner, the
Agency would be forced to operate more efficiently and provide quality results.
13



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
CONSTRUCTION CAPACITY AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Cr. 2455-MAU
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Macro policies                                            X
Sector policies                                           X
Financial objectives                                      X
Institutional development  X
Physical objectives     X
Poverty reduction                  X
Gender issues                      X
Other social objectives  X
Environmental objectives  X
Public sector management
Private sector development  X
Other                                                     X
Identification                           X
Preparation assistance          _
Appraisal           _
Supervisiorn                             X
_________________I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fact~~~~~~~~~~~. ../~..... 
Preparation                              X
Imr;plementation   _
Covenant Compliance                      X
Operation          l                     X X
x
1 4



Table 2: Related Loans and Credits
Preceding operations
Fourth Highway Project   Preparation of a comprehensive road  1982     Closed 1988. Objectives
maintenance project and betterment            reasonably well achieved. Provided
works.                                        a sound basis for a roads/
infrastructure project.
Development             The municipal component aimed to      1987     Closed 1991. Marginally
Management Project      monitor setting up of municipal                successful in achieving objectives.
governments and ensuring clear legal          Decentralization was started but is
framework for operation.                      far from complete.
Following operations
Urban Infrastracture and   Improve access to basic urban      1996    Effective 1996. Project well
Pilot Decentralization  services; develop local private sector;       implemented but slowly, especially
Project                 support pilot decentralization phase          the institutional component. Civil
by supporting local government in             works will be almost completed by
management of urban infrastructure            December 1999.
assets, and improving resource
mobilization; strengthenpublic sector
management by using transparent
procedures and delegating project
management.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification (EPS)                     n/a                       January 1992
Appraisal                                                          June 28-July 14, 1992
Negotiations                             December 1992             December 10-15, 1992
Board Presentation                                                February 2, 1993
Signing                                                           February 17, 1993
Effectiveness                            May 31, 1993              September24, 1993
Mid-tenm Review                          January 1995             July 5, 1995
Project Closing                          December 31, 1997        June 30, 1998
15



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$million)
Original Appraisal Estimate          0.80        2.70       5.70        9.10       11.5        12
Actual                                0          3.10       6.57        9.41       11.61       12.54
Actal as % of original estimate      0           115%       115%        103%       101%        105%
Date of fmal disbursement            December 3, 1998
Disbursement: Cumldative Estimated and
Adual
15 
I +-Appr;raJs
. 10                   :                               j       Estirmate
j    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~-MActual
U,
0a)     )     a)     a)      a)     a)
a)     a)     a)     a)      a)     a)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Cumulative amounts (US$ millions)                           14.29 miillion'    15.79 million
No. of conventions                                          160              134
Number of contracts signed (design/supervision + works)     310              554
No. of works contracts completed                            310              507 (as of Dec. 1997)
Percentage of contracts completed on time                   90%              65%
Percentage of contracts completed within budget             90%              74%
Percentage of payments to contractors within 30 days of invoice  100%        1 00% (within one week for
receipt                                                              _ _65% of invoices)
Average time for processing contracts (working days)        20               15
Percentage salaries/total cost                             25                30.6
Percentage low salaries/total salaries3                     50
No. of person months of employment created                  40,800           46,600
Training/Assistance:
No. of beneficiaries                                        55                13
No. of firms                                                60               93
No. of trainee x days                                       480              894
1 Amount of civil works + design and supervision as given in SAR, p.26, Table 4
2 Time between bid opening and contract award
3 Low salaries = wage below 1.5 times the legal minimum wage
16



Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Traffic study                   Better understanding of highway sector       Completed     Useful
Fiscal sUrvey                   Better understanding of tax-collection issues at    Completed  Useful
nmunicipal level
Study on solid waste management   Set up methods for participatory garbage   Completed     Useful
collection practices
Administrative reorganization of    Improve management of municipality       Completed     Useful
Municipality of Nouakchott                          .
Action plan for City of Nouakchott  Identify short-tern infrastructure needs  Completed    Useful
Computerization of Municipality of  Improve management of municipality       Completed     Useful
Nouakchott
Urban development strategy      Preparatory studies to design an urban       Not           n/a
development strategy                        completed
Table 7A: Project Costs (in US$ millions)
~~~~~~~~~~D                                   Tetl'''':SA1A.                   To--e Pjcr 
1. Public works/services                 6.91              13.27            8.13             15.18
2. Goods
Agency                                  0.10             0.10             0.36              0.36
NET/MON                                 0.30             0.30             0.18              0.18
3. Consulting services
Design and supervision                 0.51              1.02             0.56              0.96
TA/Training/Sectoral studies           2.00              2.00             1.45              1.45
4. AMEXTIPE Operating Costs               0.73              1.62             1.53             2.20
5. PPF Refancing                          0.83             0.83             0.33              0.33
6. Non-allocated                          0.62             0.87               0               0.50
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       12.00             20.00            12.54            21.16
Figures are taken from the latest World Bank database and may not match AMEXTIPE's records completely.
2 US$ figures were calculated using an average exchange rate of US$1=144 UM.
Table 7B: Project Financing
US$million       US$million
IDA               12.0             12.54
Governnent        1.0              3.22
Beneficiaries     2.2              2.44
Other donors      4.8              2.96 (KfW)
TOTAL            20.0              21.16
17



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
X/~=
Section 3.01(a)  |03,05,10  C                  Due diligence & effilciency; provision of  Full
funds, facilities, services for AMEXTIPE, compliance
non-interference
Section 3.01(b)   10        CBorrower shall not assign, amend,                     Full
abrogate, or waive the Convention or  compliance
____________________               ~~~~~statutes
Section 3.01(c)   05        CPosition of general manager, technical    Full
manager, admin/financial manager to be   compliance
______________          _________  ~~filled by persons acceptable to IDA
Section         10          C       12/24/93   Adopt 1993 training program three   Full
3.01 (d)(A)(i)    _______________months after effectiveness                        compliance
Section         10          C                  Before September each year, submit to    Met for 1994
3.01 (d)(A)(ii)                                IDA annual training program for
_______________            following  year_,_ _ _ _ _
Section         10          C       09/30/93    Submit to IDA annual works program for  Complied
3.0 l(d)(B)(i)             ____following year for at least US$3 million   with
Section         10          C       09/30/94   Submit to IDA annual works program for  Complied
3.01 (d)(B)(i)    __________  following year for at least US$4 million _wit
Section         10          C       09/30/95    Submit to IDA annual works program for  Complied
3 .01(d)(B)(iii)   _________following year for at least US$4 million   with
Section         10          CSubmnit periodic updates of roster of                 Full
3.01 (d)(C)                                    consultants and contractors, acceptable to  compliance
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  1D A
Section         03,04       C                  Make available necessary funds for  Complied
3.01(d)(C)(ii)    ___________execution of sub-projects                             with
Section 3.01(e)   04,10     C                  Ensure payment by Govt. & beneficiaries  Full
for previous year; budgetary provisions    compliance
for current year
Section 3.02    10          C                  Procurement of goods, works, services    Full
under provisions of Schedule 3 of DCA    compliance
Section 3.03(a)   10        CTake out insurance consistent with                    Full
______________  ______appropriate practices                             compliance
Section 3.03(b)   10        C                  Operate & maintain equipment and repair  Complied
____________as needed                                                   with
Section 3.04    10          C                  AMEXT1PE to carry out obligations of   Full
Sections 9.04-9.08 of General Conditions  compliance
Section 3.0 5(a)   09       C                  Borrower, AMEXTIPE and IDA to       Complied
_____________                      ~~~~~~~~undertake annual joint review of Project   with
Section 3.05(b)   09        C                  Borrower to furnish to IDA progress  Complied
report of Project one month prior to  with
annual review
Section 3.05(c)   10       [CBorrower to take necessary corrective                 Complied
___________ I          ~~actions following each annual review  with
Section 3.06    09          C       12/31/94   Borrower to carry out mid-term review as  Mid-term
agreed with IDA                     review, July
1995
Section 4.01(a)   01        C                  AMIEXT1PE shall maintain records and    Complied
accounts to reflect sound accounting  with
_________ practices
Section         01          CAMEXTIPE! shall have records, accounts,  Complied
4.01 (b)(i)    ______Special Account, and financial statements  with
18



audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA
Section 4.01(ii)  01,09     C                  AMEXTIPE shall have administrative,    Complied
technical, and managerial audit every  with
three months
Section 4.01(iii)  01,09    C                  AMEXTIPE to fuirnish certified copies of  Complied
financial statements and report on  with
financial and administrative performance
one month after the end of each quarter
Section         09          C                  AMEXTIPE shall furnish IDA with such   Complied
4.01(b)(iv)                                     other information as IDA shall      with
reasonably request
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Full compliance
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Preparation to appraisal            n/a        n/a       n/a        n/a      26.8     64.2
Appraisal                           n/a        n/a       n/a        n/a      17.9     45.3
Negotiations through Board approval  n/a       n/a       n/a        n/a      6.9       18.3
Supervision                         25         71.8      23.1*     63.5*    65.5      169.2
Completion                          6.0        20.8      9.0        18.7     6.4      6.1
TOTAL                               31.0       92.6      32.1      82.2      123.5    303.1
* The planned figure is low because no hours were planned for project supervision during FYI 994 and FY1995 in the project
database. However, the SAR indicates a total of 44 staff weeks planned for supervision.
19



Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Preparation    Mar 92        2       14        CIS, MFS           n/a          n/a          n/a
Pre-appraisal    May 92      3       15      CIS, MFS, CN        n/a           n/a          n/a
Appraisal      Jun-Jul 92    5        16    CIS, MFS, CN(3)       n/a          n/a          n/a
Supervision I   Feb 93       2        8         CIS, RA          n/a           n/a          n/a
Supervision 2    May 93      4       15      CIS, MFS, CN,        1             I          None
RA
Supervision 3    Oct 93      4       10   MFS, UP, CIS, RA        I             I          None
Supervision 4    Feb 94      2       10         CIS, RA           1             I          None
Supervision 5    June 94     4       10    CIS,, RA, CN (2)       S             S          None
Supervision 6   Nov 94       2        8         CIS, RA           HIS           S          None
Supervision 7    Mar 95      5       19     CIS, Div. Chief,      HS            S          None
(+ appraisal of                               UP (2), RA
follow-up)
Supervision 8    Jul 95      6       22    CIS, UP, RA, EC,      HIS           HS          None
(Mid-tenn                                    Div Chiefs (2)
Review)
Supervision 9   Nov 95       1       12          CIS             HS            HS          None
Supervision 10   May 96      6       13    CIS, UP (2), MFS,     HS            HS          None
CN, RA
Supervision 11   Dec 96      1        5           HE             HS            HS          None
Supervision 12   Mar 97      2        7        HE, MFS           HS            HS          None
Supervision 13  June 97      1        8           HE              HS1           HS         None
Supervision 14   Oct 97      2        7         HE, UP            HS           HS          None
Supervision 15   Mar 98      3        8       HE, UP, FA          S             S          None
R Key to Specializations                        * R Key to Performance Ratings
CIS = Construction Industry Specialist           I = Problem Free
CN  Consultant                                  S = Satisfactory
EC = Economist                                  HS = Highly Satisfactory
HE = Highway Engineer
RA = Research Assistant
UP = Urban Planner
MFS = Municipal Finance Specialist
FA = Financial analyst
20



ANNEX 1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
CONSTRUCTION CAPACITY AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Cr. 2455-MAU
Aide-NM[moire'
Final Supervision Mission (March 11-18, 1998)
1.    The final IDA supervision mission for the Construction Capacity and Employment Project, led by
Mr. Abdelghani Inal (Task Team Leader) and also consisting of Ms. Rumana Huque (Urban Planner), and
Mr. Magaye Gaye (Financial Analyst), visited Mauritania from March 11 to 18, 1998. The mission was
received by His Excellency Mr. Sid'El Moktar Ould Naji, the Minister of Planning, and by the Director of
Local Authorities, the Director of Planning, and the Mayors of the communes of Nouakchott and
Nouadhibou. The mission wishes to express its most sincere thanks to the persons contacted for their
welcome and total cooperation. Before leaving, the mission presented this aide-memoire, which
summarizes its observations and recommendations.
2.    The project, financed by the municipalities, the Government, Germany, and IDA, is being
completed by AMEXTIPE (the Public Works Executing Agency of Mauritania), even though this agency
is entering the most active stage of the Urban Infrastructure and Decentralization Project; this was
launched in August 1996, and AMEXTIPE is responsible for its implementation. The Agency has also
just completed a number of works for an agricultural project, and is in process of implementing a major
component in an education project, both of these being financed by IDA. The success of the Construction
Capacity and Employment Project meant that the process can be continued under the follow-up Urban
Infrastructure and Decentralization Project and has opened the way to the use of delegated contract
management, involving more efficient procedures and labor-intensive methods, and leading to job
creation and the development of local enterprises.
3.    As of December 31, 1997, the project accounted for UM 1.5 billion (about US$10.6 million) in
154 completed sub-projects, financed by IDA and government and municipal counterpart funds, and UM
307 million (about US$2.2 million) in 49 KfW-financed sub-projects. Other financing that had been
anticipated at appraisal (from UNDP, WFP, France, the European Union, and Spain) failed to materialize.
As of the same date, AMEXTIPE activities outside the project accounted for expenditures of UM 1.4
billion (US$9.9 million) in financing from other sources, including the Government's own projects (UM
134 million). The cumulative total for the Agency's operations since its establishment in 1993 is about
UM 3.2 billion (US$22.9 million), to which can be added the Agency's costs, totaling UM 365 million
(US$2.5 million).
4.    The following are the performance indicators relating exclusively to the Construction Capacity
and Employment Project. One hundred one delegated contract management conventions were signed, 476
contracts were signed (compared with the 310 anticipated at appraisal), 442 were completed, 65% were
completed on schedule (instead of the anticipated 90%), and 74% were completed within the initially
Please note that the figures given in this Aide Memoire might differ from those in the text of the ICR. The ICR
contains the correct data, verified with World Bank records and with the Agency.
21



ANNEX 1
contracted costs (compared with the anticipated 90%). All the enterprises were paid within one month,
and the average time taken to enter into a contract was 15 days (instead of the anticipated 20 days). The
wage bill constituted 31.5% of IDA sub-project costs, and the direct employment created was equivalent
to about 26,400 person-months. Training provided by the Agency amounted to 900 person-days. Despite
these efforts, capacity building in local enterprises was not commensurate with the development of the
Agency.
5 .    IDA financing was used for sub-projects presented by the municipality of Nouakchott (52.6% of
the total), the Government (30.2%), and by the municipalities of Nouadhibou (10.6%), Rosso (5.1%), and
Aleg (1.5%). The breakdown of capital investment was as follows: 21.3% for school construction
(rehabilitation and new construction), 22.2% for social infrastructure (i.e. social centers, centers for
women, health centers, etc.), 22% for administrative buildings (ministries, mayors' offices, mougataa, the
Court of Auditors, etc.), 23.4% for roads (urban streets, sand removal, and establishment of a Road
Management Unit), and 11% for studies relating to the urban component. The internal rates of return for
sub-projects cover a wide range, and can be as high as 40% for classroom rehabilitation.
6.    The project's most significant impact has certainly been in the education sector, where, in
Nouakchott, Nouadhibou, Aleg, and Rosso, a total of about 350 classrooms were constructed or
rehabilitated and equipped with school furniture. The impact is undeniable; as one example, enrollments
per class in just one of the schools went from 120 students sitting crowded together on the floor to 60
students sitting on benches at desks, and more often than not this sort of effect was produced in the most
underprivileged districts. The health centers that were constructed have been very useful to the
communities, and, because of the dynamism and dedication of one mayor, together with the assistance
provided by NGOs, it was even possible to turn one of them into a surgical center, thus saving community
members in need of surgery a journey of 400 km to the nearest hospital. The construction of employment
centers for women is also a pioneering step (to a far greater degree than the construction of annexes to
mayors' offices on the outskirts of Nouakchott).
7.    Practically all the works constructed or rehabilitated are in use, except for the OMVS facilities in
Nouakchott, which were completed about three years ago and are still not fully utilized. The Road
Management Unit established under the project should make better use of the management tools that were
provided. The Agency's sand-removal contracts could have been applied to all the areas for which it was
planned if the project manager in question had adopted all the upstream measures necessary for execution.
Contractors have presented claims arising from these contracts (the volumes of which have declined), and
these have yet to be settled. It must, however, be remembered that the IDA Credit cannot be used to pay
any compensation to the contractors. In addition, the trees planted in Nouakchott as part of the project
operations -- and which have so far survived -- need to be protected.
8.    The quality of the maintenance performed on the works constructed varies considerably from one
sector to another, and - within the same sector - from one place to another. For example, the annex to the
mayor's office in Ksar has been excellently maintained, whereas the one in the Arafat district is greatly in
need of maintenance work. In general, the mission recommends that the environment in the rehabilitated
and newly constructed schools be upgraded through planting trees and cleaning classrooms, yards, toilets,
etc. To achieve this, it is still necessary in some cases to identify what responsibilities are to be performed
by each of the various institutions, to obtain the necessary resources, and to raise the consciousness of the
communities and mobilize them. Solutions to these problems should be provided by the reforms launched
as part of the decentralization process supported by the Urban Infrastructure and Decentralization Project,
which is currently under way.
22



ANNEX 1
9.    The construction of small-scale infrastructure works through labor-intensive methods, the use of
efficient procurement procedures, and the prompt payment of contractors led to considerable development
among contractors and consultants. Nevertheless, the Agency should continue to provide training for
these enterprises so as to upgrade their qualifications and improve the quality of the services and works
they provide. Simultaneously, the Agency should monitor the quality of works more strictly.
10.   It must be pointed out that the Agency's costs have increased by about 50% over the initial
projections. This is partly explained by the large increases in income taxes, which resulted in increases in
the staff salaries themselves. The Agency has also expanded its activities outside this project, particularly
in the areas of agriculture and education, involving sub-projects dispersed throughout the country. The
Agency should continue to improve its management by showing greater dynamism in acquiring and
implementing projects, so as to increase its 'turnover" and reduce its operating-cost ratio (i.e. the
Agency's operating costs compared to the volume of cumulative activities). This is still quite high (6.4%
in 1997, compared with 10.7% for cumulative activities from 1993 to end-1997, and the 9.5% projected at
appraisal), and the Agency should set itself a maximum ratio of 5% as an objective for 1998. If there is no
increase in the volume of activities, the Agency should reduce its costs.
11.   The Agency is reminded that the final sub-projects that are now under way are to be completed by
June 30, 1998 (i.e. stabilization work on Nouakchott streets, two markets, a center for women, and a center
for youth in Nouadhibou). The Agency must take all necessary steps to make all its payments, and to
replace the use of holdbacks on contracts with bank guarantees.
12.   The audit for activities as of December 31, 1997 must be forwarded to IDA by May 31, 1998 at
the latest. Consequently, the financial statements must be completed by April 15, 1998, so that the audit
can begin on April 19, 1998. The terms of reference for the audit that were forwarded to the Agency's
chief accountant must be attached to the audit contracts for 1997 and subsequent years. These tenns of
reference were prepared by IDA when the Association's portfolio in Mauritania was reviewed in October
1997.
13.   In addition, the Implementation Completion Report (Borrower's Part), together with the
evaluation of the project's impact on the various beneficiaries, should reach IDA before end-April 1998.
The financial figures will be updated subsequently, in the third quarter of 1998. IDA will forward its draft
ICR for the Borrower's comments one month after receipt of the Borrower's report.
Abdelghani Inal
Task Team Leader
Nouakchott, March 18, 1998
23



ANNEX 2
SUMMARY OF BORROWER CONTRIBUTION
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Honor - Fraternity -- Justice
AMEXTIPE
CONSTRUCTION CAPACITY AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY: IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AUGUST 1998 VERSION
BICA: Bureau d'Ingenieurs-Conseils et d'Architecture
Zone d'Entrep6ts et Garages
BP: 1521
Nouakchott - Ksar
Tel.: 531 65
24



ANNEX 2
PRESENTATION OF PROJECT
Project Objectives
In 1993, the Mauritanian Government, with World Bank financial and technical support, launched
the Construction Capacity and Employment Project, which has now reached its conclusion.
The project had both short-term objectives, and longer-term development objectives. Over the
short tern, the aim was to create employment in urban areas and implement sub-projects that would be
economically and socially useful.
Over the long term, the intention was to demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive projects,
develop effective procedures for executing government programs, strengthen the expertise and skills of
the sector's operators and workers, and increase the competitiveness of contractors.
Components
In order to achieve these objectives, the project was based on the following three main
components:
*  a program of labor-intensive sub-projects, to which 75% ofthe total project resources would be
devoted;
* technical and management assistance and training;
*  a program of sectoral studies.
Implementing Agency
The Public Works Executing Agency of Mauritania (AMEXTIPE) was established to implement
the project.
AMEXTIPE is an autonomous institution established under private law and governed by its own
statutes, its purpose being to carry out the function of delegated contract management on behalf of the
Govemnment. Its relationship with the State is governed by a special agreement. The Agency is required
to pursue the following objectives:
* to limit costs, while showing quantifiable effectiveness in its methods of implementation;
* to apply transparent, simple, flexible, and easily monitored procedures.
25



ANNEX 2
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS OF THE PROJECT
Labor-Intensive Projects:
As regards the labor-intensive component, the performance rate for the 76 IDA-financed sub-
projects is 86%, and the sub-projects that are currently under way have reached an advanced stage. The
rate for the 18 KfW-financed sub-projects is over 74%, and currently active packages have reached a very
advanced stage. Thirty-five percent of the govermment portfolio has been finished. The works completed
so far have been categorized as being of good quality.
Training:
* Four sessions were organized for 93 enterprises (all categories taken together).
* Two sessions were organized for about 12 engineering and design firms.
Implementation was only partial because of a lack of interest on the part of the potential
beneficiaries, most of which do not have permanent staffs available to follow training sessions, in light of
their involvement in site operations, despite their continuing technical shortcomings and inadequacies.
This is why only 6% of the original allocation for this component was utilized.
The technical assistance and sectoral studies related to two sub-components: the highway sector
and the urban sector.
*     As regards highways, the Road Management Unit was established, and the project supplied
technical assistance, computer hardware, and means of transportation. In addition, the sector benefited
from a survey of road traffic and the establishment of the Roads Sector Commission, which was to define
a national strategy for the sector; however, this latter operation was suspended because of a number of
implementation problems. Nevertheless, the sector utilized 83% of the resources allocated to it, and this
constitutes a good financial performance.
The urban sector benefited from activities costing a total of UM 26.2 million. These concerned
taxation at commune level and infrastructure, in addition to activities relating to the municipality of
Nouakchott's solid-waste management, administrative reorganization, computerization of data, and
preparation of an action plan.
The Construction Capacity and Employment Project and the Construction Sector
Implementation of the project facilitated and promoted the development of the construction
sector. The project's impact on the sector's development is clear and evident at the following levels:
-     The qualitative and quantitative development of operators in the sector, who previously enjoyed
an oligopoly.
Before the project, the sector was dominated by a small number of large enterprises that "shared
out" government road and building contracts. Alongside them was a group of small enterprises that could
obtain only small-scale construction and rehabilitation contracts.
26



ANNEX 2
With implementation of the project, the landscape for operators in the sector was transformed,
with the emergence of a considerable number of quite efficient small and medium-sized enterprises.
At project start-up, there were only 12 engineering firms and about 30 enterprises, whereas
currently there are 534 enterprises and 105 engineering firms in the Agency's records, 470 and 67 of these
respectively being currently operational.
As a result, the labor-intensive component provided 554 contracts for more than 60 contract
management entities and 100 SMEs, only five of which had had the opportunity of implementing a
government contract prior to the project.
The project provided an opportunity for structuring and organizing a host of enterprises that were
operating in the informal sector in less-than-optimal conditions, subcontracting works for large enterprises
at a disadvantage to themselves. The resulting opportunities for employment are considerable.
-     Investment in the sector, which was able to recover after a considerable decline; the project's
labor-intensive component made it possible to provide UM 2.16 billion for construction and government
services.
-     Finally, expansion in the activities of suppliers of goods and various small-scale service providers
(i.e. photocopying, printing, and related services). Allocation scales for works and service costs indicate
that the project generated turnovers of UM 647 million and UM 30 million respectively forthese two
categories.
The Project and its Beneficiaries
The project has two types of beneficiaries: institutions and communities.
The project has had a very positive impact on institutions, in that it enabled the volume of
investment to be increased, while making it possible to carry out infrastructure programs, improve the
quality of project appraisal and selection, and strengthen the capacity for monitoring and managing works.
For example, overall investment by the municipality of Nouakchott under the project totaled
about UM 700 million, whereas its cumulative investment for the two years preceding implementation
(1991 and 1992) had been only UM 38 million.
The establishment of project appraisal procedures and the definition of selection criteria enabled
the beneficiaries' analytical capacity to be developed. This will continue in the future, and it is virtually
impossible to quantify the positive impact that this will produce by enhancing project quality, eliminating
poor projects, and thus improving resource allocation.
The project considerably improved the price-quality trade-off, and made it possible to develop
effective monitoring and supervision mechanisms.
The communities are well aware of the services and equipment that have been provided under the
project, and they are duly appreciative.
27



ANNEX 2
The communities consider that certain of the works have brought about improvements by
reducing the proliferation of solid waste, improving traffic flow, increasing pedestrian safety, promoting
certain types of business as a result of the improvements made to some of the avenues, and removing sand
from certain areas.
Users of the rehabilitated buildings and schools all express satisfaction with them, but also
express concern over the maintenance and monitoring of the condition of such works and buildings.
In some schools, the project has had obvious effects by halving the number of students per class.
As regards employment and poverty reduction, the ratio of direct labor to capital costs under the
project was 30.57% (compared with the anticipated 24%), and the project has already generated 25,667
person-months of employment. This figure will have increased to 37,700 by the end of the project.
As a result of the project, a total of about UM 462 million was received in income by those
directly employed in construction, to which should be added the income of those indirectly employed.
Consequently, the project made a considerable contribution to the development and strengthening of
qualifications and skills in the construction sector.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE AND BANK PERFORMANCE
Borrower Performance
Overall, the performance of the Borrower is considered quite satisfactory. The Government
fulfilled all its commitments and ensured that the implementing agency remained autonomous and
independent.
Consequently, government commitment to project objectives was confirmed over the
implementation period.
The success of the project (demonstrating the usefulness of such labor-intensive programs in
creating employment and thus reducing poverty), combined with the effectiveness and efficiency of the
implementing agency's procedures and with the cost savings gained, have encouraged the Govermment
and municipalities to adopt the technique of delegated contract management.
The Government and the beneficiaries have therefore systematically turned to the Agency
whenever one of their projects included and infrastructure component, as has been the case with many
operations (outside the project in question) that the Government has entrusted to AMEXTIPE, together
with others financed by the municipalities themselves. The latter are sometimes recorded as creditors in
the Agency's accounts because of the advances they have provided for the implementation of works.
All of this accounts for the good performance of the Agency, which - without any significant
delays -- implemented the portfolio of operations selected under the project.
AMEXTIPE has established effective and streamlined procedures, together with an efficient
system for monitoring and supervising current projects, while controlling its own management costs. It
28



ANNEX 2
has therefore moved away from having its operating costs financed by IDA and the Government, and
toward a fee-for service system.
The audit reports on the accounts, quarterly reports, and monthly bulletins have been regularly
submitted.
There were no cost overruns, and no major changes were made to the original allocations to the
various categories. The Government and beneficiaries provided their respective contributions on
schedule, and these were larger than planned.
Bank Performance
The Bank's perfonnance was satisfactory, and the institution played a major role in the
identification and preparation of the project. Its response time is satisfactory, and the quality of its
dialogue with the Borrower is excellent.
The Bank monitored the project in accordance with the original supervision schedule, and
cooperated with the Government in organizing a Midterm Review.
CONCLUSION
It is to be noted that the project fully achieved its objectives with regard to the feasibility of labor-
intensive operations, the development of the construction sector, and employment creation.
In light of the success of this project, therefore, consideration should be given to the application of
delegated contract management to other sectors and activities.
29



MAP SECTION



IBRD 25935
18                  16                   14                   12'                   10                       Former
Spanish         *-.       ALGERIA
Sahora j        I      \
MAU RITAN IA                                                                                               - -MAURITANIA
30                                                 30-                                                                N.u.kchott
PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                                        M A L I
SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                          Nema  .        *Tombouctou
------ -~ TRACKS                                                                                  D.ksr* SENEGA>,                          j OER
+,----,--  RAILROADS                                                                            GATHE8A-       1        o mako /        *iOmey~
O      SELECTED TOWNS                                                                          GUINEA- f-Ouo.dou .)
BISA  GUINEA                   KBEN.0
  REGION CAPITALS                                                                          BISA                         - 'FHANAD VOIEN;N) 
280                  AIRPORTS                                                MO  R O           C C    28'                -      j   yTE D VC)IRli  I A    >
PORTS                                 - -
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                         tTo Tindouf         ond ny other nforroto sho- on
-  -    INTERNATIONAL                                                                                             th,s mop do not imply, on the port of
INTERNDATIONALS                                                                                       T he World Bo-k Group, ay tudgment
BOUNDARIES                                                                     .7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  nthe legal stoto of ony teritoy, or
f       N.         - any endorsement or acceptonce of
{       \    ~~~~~such boundor,es.
0   100        200       3001N                                                                                        ALGERIA
26'                                                                       -      --                                                                     26-
KILOMETERS                                                                   A  B- n Till
Cheggo-N
To La'Yon     Bi Mogcefn                                                          N
FORMER    j                                                                                                  24'
-24                                      S PA N I S H   !                              ZEMMOUR                            /  1
SAHARA
oof at                               .
Fd6rik         0T.                                                      ! j
I    Tou6il   o u                                                       j
220                                                        j                                                                  j      .                  22'
-     --   --      -_                        . .. . ..
Nou6dhibou* -oBono               -r                         o-m
Lonoofsr 'ii~~oY mic  6~ ~"'Ch~km       Ouadane 
la Gouera                               /          5               0    A      DRAR                             I
DAKHLET        /!                       Atar,                     A    D    R  A    Rtj
- 20                       !   IN CH  R             ,NOUADHIBOU/   N HA   0i2inquetti
.  /        Akjouit.i             000efi                                                                                     2
Noudmghor0/                  7                                    /                                   / 
_-  j_r                                                                   . Q:HODH ECH
i   mss~~ ./           e TAGANT                          .                         I
0Aguilal FI'i Tam*    %           Tidjikji             0Tichit            C CHARGUI
-180         NOUAKCHOT          T RARZA                7                   , .  -  i                       .         .                                  18
BoCanqoriafa t     MoudjdciN                           j
Boutil,'    - g9ta Lahjar      I              \  '-.-
        B N A             >            0Tncheklot                 . HOOualata
M   rdra  Rlci   /    * Aeg  #~Gu6r oo     T '  HODIH ~~e
r  ~    Bogo4                *.  0     A  *'Kiff        E      *Ayo&n /l TAmbeghQ
'           gBak                                ;E                          .N6ma
-16                  ~  To St-Louis                                                                                                   Bass k Kooroundol GH A R B  I  j-r Am   ,B   k  !o16'
~~~jo~~~~Ko    Kakossa\   ,Kdboe,nio16
' Sdbi  'N.f            ' '          L''''-''                          .
Gourayet 
SENEGAL    or                                                                             M A LI
.)
- IA' 4 - |Si6                        *        1,4'                  1.2d                  10                     8                     6'            14-
FEBRUARY 1995



