Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                           Report No. 10445
Report No. 10445-YEM Type: (PCR)
PANTON, M./ X31680 / T9 032/ OEDDi
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1025-YAR)
MARCH 27, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution sand may be used by recipients only in the performance of 
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     : Yemeni Rial (YR1)
(1980)
YR1 1.00   -   US$ 0.22
US$ 1.00    -   YR1 4.50
(1991)
YR1 1.00    - US$ 0.083
US$ 1.00   - YR. 12.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilome_.er  (km) -          0.621 miles
1 square kilometer (km2) -         0.386 square miles
1 kilogram          -          2.205 pounds
1 metric ton        -         2,205 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CACB        Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
DANIDA      Danish International Development Agency
FAO/Cp      Food  and  Agricultural  Organization/  World  Bank
Cooperative Program
GCDFR       General  Corporation  for  the  Development  of  Fish
Resources
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GRP         Glass Reinforced Plastic
IDA         International Development Association
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
MS!IC       Maine Services and Management Corporation
PCR         Project Completion Report
NCFM        National Corporation of Fish Marketing
PDRY        Peoples Democratic Republic of Yemen
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PPAR        Project Performance Audit Report
ROY         Republic of Yemen
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic
.OVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK                 FOR omCIL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OMce of D00fthwCwta
Op"siat  vaIwskm
March 27, 1992
HEMORANI)d TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Yemen -  Fisheries
Development Proiect (Credit 1025-YAR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Yemen - Fisheries Development Project (Credit 1025-YAR)"
prepared by the former Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFF!CIAL USE ONLY
Proiect CoqA2etion Report
REPUBLIC OF yEMEN
FISHERIES  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
(CREDIT 1025-YAR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Pr2ft ce  ......................................      . . . . . . . . . . . i
LfAliation Sunmarv .............................             ,      .     .... iii
Project Objectives ........................                      iii
Implementation Experience ........................              iii
Sustainability ........................                          iv
Lessons Learned .........................,,,,,,,                 v
Part I: Proiect Review from IDA's Persoective ....................... 
A. Prolect Identit.                                                            1
B. BaiSground l.1
C.  Proiect Oblectives and Description.                                       2
Project Objectives ...................................... 2
Project Description.                                             2
D.  Protect Design and Oruzanization.                                          2
3.    Proiect ImDlementation .................                                 4
Variances between Planned and Actual Implementation  .4
Implementation Delays.                                           5
Role of GCDFR.                                                   6
F. Prolect Results .8
Credit Component.                                                8
Hodeidah Harbor.                                                 9
Khawbah Harbor.                                                  9
Shrimp Vessels ......................                            10
Economic Analysis .10
G. IDA performance .11
H. BorroMer Performance .12
I.  Consultants Perforance .13
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



J.    Proiect Su$tainability ........................................ 13
K.    Lessons Learned ............................................... 14
Partr II: Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
Part III; StAtiAtical 'njta
Related IDA Credits .16
Project Timetable ................................... ........... 17
Missions .18
Studies .19
IDA Credit Disbursement (Estimated and Actual) .20
Key Performance Indicators .21
Project Costs and Financing .22
Project Results (Direct Benefits) .23
Project Results (Economic and Financial Impact) ................. 23
Status of Covenants .26
Staff Inputs .27
Map IBRD 14788R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1025-YAR)
PREFACE
1.          This is the Project Completion Report  (PCR) for the Fisheries
Development Project in the Republic of Yemen, for which Credit 1025-YAR in the
amount of $17.0 million was approved on May 20, 1980. The credit was closed on
June 30, 1990, about four years behind schedule. A sum of US$15,379,693.23 was
disbursed, and the undisbursed balance of US$1,620,306.17 was cancelled.
2.          The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) has been
prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division of the former Europe, Middle
East and North Africa Regional Office, with assistance of the Agricultural
Division of the Tec>S'-cal Department. The Borrower was requested to prepare a
PCR (Part II) but has not furnished any report to the Bank.
3.          Preparati-  4 the PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report, The Developmeat -.edit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence
between IDA and the Borrower, and internal IDA memoranda.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1025-YAR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Prolect Obiectives.   The principal objectives of the project were to
increase the domestic production and consumption of protein from the country's
fish resources, to promote the income of the artisanal fi,,%rmen, and to reduce
the country's dependence on food imports, and, as relate   , these goals, to
establish a strong Institutional framework for providi         rt services to the
fishermen.
2.    Implementation Experience.    The project took longer to implement than
planned, but succeeded in creating an effective and efficient fishing harbor at
Hodeidah, which is currently used to full capacity; the fishing harbor and the
other facilities at Hodeidah have been effective in improving 'ishing efficiency,
auctioning of fish, and fish marketing. The project also implemented a highly
successful,  efficient  and  innovative  fisheries  credit  program,  which
substantially expanded the productive capacity of the fishing sector. The credit
program, which financed vessel construction, engines and nets, was initially
handicapped by the absence of a credit adviser and by a foreign exchange shortage
which prevented the importation of out-board engines, but once these problems
were solved, the volume of credit rose, exceeding appraisal targets, while the
quality of the fishery loan portfolio improved markedly. The credit component
introduced some highly successful new credit features, improving service to the
fishermen, reducing lending costs and enhancing recovery.
3.    The fact that the project received the status of problem project almost
throughout its implementation was in large measure caused by a number of
components which have been less than successful, and because of the institutional
problems of the project, notably management and maintenance arrangements for the
project facilities, the development of the project implementation agency, the
General Corporation for the Development of Fish Resources (GCDFR) into an
appropriate vehicle for support services, and the originally intended transfer
of some project facilities to the private sector.   Unsuccessful components
include a small fish landing facility and shrimp processing plant at Khawbah of
which only the ice production has been effective and the road link is sti?
unfinished, small service centers along the coast which were ineffective, an_.
four inland market facilities which have hardly been used, in part because of
poor location and in part because similar services were being offered by
informal, private agencies on a more efficient and cost-effective basis. The
institutional set-up of the project and its management have been weak; objectives
and financial structure of the GCDFR were not clearly specified during appraisal,
and the emphasis of the Corporation's activities during project implementation
has excessively focussed on (unsuccessful) fish catching and marketing, while the
more urgently needed maintenance of project facilities, and provision of selected
services to the fishing sector received inadequate attention.



iv
4.    The ERR at appraLsal was not based on a with/without analysis.   The
recalculated ERR of 13% (28% calculated at appraisal) assumes a without project
fish production restricted by foreign exchange shortages in the late 1980s, which
virtually stopped imports of fishing gear and engines and particularly spare
parts. Yomeni fishermen require an outboard engines every three years, and
replace inboard engines every 8-10 years.   Without project estimated fish
production is assumed to have increased by 20% until 1987, when it started to
drop by 12%. Incremental fish r oduction is estimated at 11,000 ton at full
development (1991), slightly more than estimated at appraisal (9,600 ton)
Benefits are limited to incremental fish production, ice sales and benefits from
access to fresh water. Because of lack of hard data, the recalculated ERR has
a high level of uncertainty.
5.    The  project  underwent  some  significant  changes  in  project  design
immediately following the appraisal mission; the bilaterally funded components
were adjusted at the request of the Government and the co-financier. As a result
the project included a shrimp processing plant and small fishing harbour to land
shrimp in Khawbah, high risk componea.".s which subsequently proved unsuccessful.
Delays in construction of selected project components and staffing of the key
technical assistance position significantly reduced the effectiveness of the
project.   The attempt of the project to initiate a new shrimp fishery with
locally constructed vessels of modified   designs  failed,  largely because
inadequate attention was paid to the design and testing process of these fishing
vessels, of which designs were unfamiliar to local fishermen. However, local
fishermen succeeded in slightly improving locally constructed boats, which proved
effective in catching shrimp. The project successfully imported small canoes of
a design tested in Saudi Arabian waters, with which local fishermen were
familiar.
6.    Sustainabilitv.  The sustainability of the project facilities will depend
primarily on satisfactory financial and institutional arrangements for their
maintenance. DANIDA initiated an interim program for the purpose but has yet to
decide on its funding. Following unification of the Republic of Yemen the new
Ministry of Fisheries (MOF) has decided to amalgamate GCDFR with the National
Corporation for Fish Marketing (NCFM) and the Marine Services and Management
Corporation from the former Peoples Democratic Republic of Yemen. The latter
corporation is specialized in maintenance of marine structures, and may
substantially improve maintenance of project structures provided adequate
financial provisions are made for the purpose. Without regular maintenance, the
facilities in Hodeidah will be affected by siltation of the harbor basin, while
the shore based facilities will deteriorate quickly. Some of the facilities in
Hodeidah have been leased to the private sector as proposed, but the plant at
Khawbah is still in public hands. Operation of this plant requires private
sector input. The responsibility for extension and similar services is being
transferred from GCDFR to the Ministry of Fisheries (MOF). The credit program
is continuing, with promising prospects.



v 
7     Lessons Learned. The main lessons of the experience with this project are
that:
(i)   projects  in now  sectors  in countries  with  institutional  and
personnel constraints should be kept relatively simple in design and
modest in size and scope, and wili need a relatively long time to be
implemented;
(ii)  before a public sector corporation is proposed as the implementing
agency, its objectives, and the organizational, technical and
financial implications - including satisfactory arrangements for
maintenancs of project facilities - should be clearly spelled out
and agreed upon with the Government after other institutional
alternatives have been carefully reviewed;
(iii) no investment in major infrastructure should be contemplated prior
to establishment of a fishery;
(iv)  adjustments of projects resulting from the availability of co-
financing should be equally carefully appraised as other project
components;
(v)   beneficiaries of fisheries projects, such as artisanal fishermen,
and their organizations, like cooperatives, should be effectively
involved in technical and institutional aspects of project design
and in implementation; and
ri)  new types of fishing vessels shoult only be introduced following a
careful review of design parameters, and extensive testing of a few
vessels of the new design under commercial conditions; the testing
may involve more than one generation of steadily improved test
vessels before a vessel design  may be fully accepted by local
fishermen.



1
PROJECT COMPLEXION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1025-YAR)
Prt I: Poriect Review from IDA's Perspective
A. ProJect Identity
Project Name:   Fisheries Development Project
Credit Number: 1025-YAR
RVP Unit:       MENA Region
Country:        Republic of Yemen
Sector:         Fisheries
Sub-Sector:     Fisheries Credit and Infrastructure
B.  Background
1.01 Th. fisheries sector of North Yemen covers over 3,000 full-time fishermen
spread over 40 fishing communities and enjoying access to the marine fish
resource represented by the coastline of about 600 miles along the eastern shore
of the Red Sea, with a continental shelf of about 9,100 km2. The sector is
important to the national economy not only for its potential to supply high
quality protein to the domestic consumers, partly in substitution of imported
livestock pzoducts, but also for the prospect of exports to neighboring
countries.  Its main weaknesses have been the absence of necessary coastal
infrastructure and a satisfactory marketing and distribution system outside the
Tihama coastas. zone, and the lack of financial support and technical services.
The basic Government strategy for developing the sector has been to establish the
necessary facilities and provide support to the skilled and energetic small-scale
fishermen. In response to a Government request for an ZDA credit to assist in
developing the sector, an PAO/Vorld Bank CP mission identified a project as early
as 1975.   Subsequently, the Fisheries Department of the FAO sponsored three
feasibility studies covering, respectively, flsh marketing, a survey of the
country's shrimp resources, and identification of suitable fish and shrimp
landing sites, including designs for marine and shore facilities. As the studies
could be completed only over four years bei.ause of funding constraints, the
project came to be appraised in September/October 1979, and received Board
approval in May 1980. The project received parallel financing for the shrimp
processing plant from DANIDA. Flsheries development as proposed in the project
was in line with the broader macro-economic strategy of the Government, which
emphasized the goals of developing production and income in the productive
sectors and of building up the basic institutions, skills and infrastructure,
which were essential for such development.



C. Proiect Objectives an4 Description
2.01  Proiect Objictives.   The principal objectives of the project were to
increase the domestic production and consumption of fish from the country's under
exploited fish resources, and to promote the income and well-being of the
artisanal fishermen.   A related objective was to establish an institutional
framework for providing to the fishermen the support services required by them.
In pursuit of these brcad objectives, the project aimed to strengthen the
productive base and the productivity of the sector and also improve the quality,
and extend the deliverb n.apacity, of its marketing and distribution system.
2.02  Prolect descrXJo.-1-    The following were the main components of the
project:
i)   an artisanal fishing port at Hodeidah with facilities for fish
handling, marketing and storage, and a small boat yard;
ii   an unprotected fish landing jetty at Khawbah with facilities ashore
for fish and shrimp receiving, processing and storage and ice
preduction;
iii) shore-based fish handling and marketing facilities, along the coast,
at Khawkah and Mocha, two important fishing centers south of
HodeLdah;
iv)   market facilities at Sanaa, Taiz, Ibb and Dhamar;
v)   introduction of small shrimp trawlers of a new design;
vi)   credit facilities for fishermen to purchase or repair traditional
Sa1s  fishing  vessels,  improved  fishing  vessels,  transport
vehicles, flshing gear and marine engines;
vii)  a coastal road link to Khawbah; and
viii) technical assistance consisting of expertise for upgrading fishing
technology and marketing and distribution of fish, fishery credit,
construction of prototype shrimp trawlers and on-the-job training
and demonstrations to local fishermen of small boat bottom trawling.
D. Project Design and Organization
3.01 The project conLcept was broadly appropriate in that it focussed on the
facilities and financial resources which were lacking in the fisheries sector of
the former YAR. The approach at appraisal was "to rely to the extent possible
on the sector's existing productive forces with a minimum requirement for scarce
and already over extended public sector resources and foreign technical
assistance". According to tl- SAR, "in the contezt of YAR, the safest way to
assure the efficient utilization of project provided facilities" was "to make use



-3-
of the energetic private sector."   The problems and drlays encountered in
implementing the project, its institutional difficulties, and the fact that
several project components are not functioning despite four extensions of the
closing date of the IDA. credit adding up to a postponement by about 5 years,
suggest that the project design was still overly ambitious and complicated, and
should have paid more attention to institutional issues.  In particular, the
market  facilities  and  service  centers  could have  been  left  out.    More
fundamentally, the risk of e2tablishing infrastructure faciiities fcr a (shrimp)
fishery which had not yet been established, and the complications of introduction
of nov types of fishing vessels for such fishery,  were underestimated.  In
add-Ition, the design of the institutional component of the project Was deficient
and incomplete.
3.02 Some of the design deficiencies of the project could have been adjusted
durirg implementation if project management and the institutional arrangements
of the project had been appropriate. Unfortunately, these were the weakest parts
of the project.  Project implementation was entrusted principally to a state
owned corporation, the General Corporation for Development of Fish Resources
(GCDFR). This meant, inter alia, that the construction and maintenance of the
proposed infrastructure would be the corporation's responsibility and that the
artisanal fishermen would receive all the support services needed by them from
this corporation instead of from a fisheries section of the Ministry of
Agriculture, as in earlier years. However, the objectives of the corporation
were not specified, while particularly the financial arrangements and the
responsibilities of the corporation for management and maintenance of the project
facilities were not analyzed.   Though reliance on the private sector was
emphasized as a policy goal, and the project directly supported private ownership
of fishing vessels, it did not assign any specific role to private enterprise or
lay down any time schedule for transfer of project facilities, notably support
services in Hodeidah harbor, fish processing facilities at Khawbah or the service
centers at Mocha and Khawbah to the private sector. Such transfer would have
been in the best interest of the project, as recently demonstrated following the
transfer of some facilities in Hodeidah (fuel supply, work shops, slipvay) to the
private sector following completion of the project. The relationship bet-een the
corporation anc the existing fishing cooperatives was equally uncertain. With
unclear objectives left open to local interpretation by weak management, the
corporation& did initially focus heavily on its own non-project commercial
catching and marketing activities which threatened to come into conflict with the
interests of the small-scale fishermen. It took much time and effort by IDA to
reverse this deviation, urge the corporation's management to reverse the neglect
of the corporation's maintenance and service functions, and have its Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) strengthened with the necessary manpower and resources.
Further, the inItial project design did not take sufficient account of the issue
of the corporation's viability with reference to the mix of activities it had
assumed, some of which could be operated on a commercial basis, while others were
to be provided free of cost. In the light of experience, it appeared that the
institutional choice in favor of this state-owned corporation was made without
a full examination of its organizational and financial implications and a review
of possible alternatives.



-4-
E. Project ImRlementation
4.01 Variances between Planned and Actual Implementation. Several changes in
the project occurred in the course of implementation, some of them of far-
reaching significance, They include:
i)   The planned 35 km access road from Khawbah to the coastal road
between Jizan in Saudi Arabia and Hodeidah for transporting fish was
dropped in favor of a 18 km road link to be constructed from Khawbah
to Jebel Al-Milh, a point midway on the Lohaiya Jizan Road
constructed by the Tihama Development Authority under the IDA
assisted Wadi-Mawr Project. This helped connect the fisheries port
of Khawbah to the rural road system which was linked to the road
from Hodeidah to Jizan.
ii)   Technical assistance contemplated under the project was revised to
include a fisheries extension adviser and a marine engineer, while
the boat builder was deleted.
iii) The original concept of having fishing vessels built locally of
which the design had been developed during appraisal, did not prove
feasible, because insufficient efforts were made to have the design
accepted by local fishermen.   In the end the project supported
construction of traditional Yemeni 'sambuk' and other vessels, some
of which are of a design improved by local fishermen. In addition,
a small number of glass reinforced plastic (GRP) canoes were
imported under the project, which had proven successful with local
fishermen who had witnessed their performance in Saudi Arabia.
4.02 It was in regard to the facilities in the Khawbah area that most
significant changes occurred.  It was intended during preparation and at the
initial stages of appraisal to provide only a small ice plant, including water
supply, a road link and an open jetty for local traditional vessels at Khawbah
to make it easier for local fishermen to land fish, help improve fish transport
and provide ice and water. The major change decided upon after return of the
appraisal mission was to include a shrimp and fish processing plant with DANIDA
financing; during detailed design it was further decided to adjust the fish
landing jetty, and construct a more elaborate landing facility designed
specifically for vessels of an improved design to be introduced under the
project. In the event, these vessels never came to be built, and the landing
jetty could be used by only a small portion of the local fleet, as the protected
harbor space, effective landing jetty length and space on the jetty were not
sufficient to accommodate all fishing vessels, fish landings and the traffic to
and from the auction hall. The shrimp processing plant was never used because
the local shrimp fishery, which eventually developed along the coast wlth
slightly modified local vessels, landed their catch in Hodeidah or nearby landing
sites, from which point the entire catch would be transported to Hodeidah harbor
to be auctioned. In addition, the catches never exceeded about 500 ton per year,
which could easily be marketed locally or in Jizan across the border with Saudi
Arabia on ice, which was much cheaper than freezing the product. The sale of ice



-  5  -
produced in the plant was the only service of this facility which has been of
benefit to the fishermen, while the port was being used only for loading ice and
fuel for lozal vessels; it is virtually silted up at present because of complete
lack of maintenance. No large shrimp fishery has yet developed in the Khawbah
area. The ice plant only occasionally operates at present due to lack of spare
parts and iLuadequate maintenance.
4.03 A study financed by DANIDA in 1988 suggested that additional investments
be undertaken at the Khavbah harbor so as to improve the existing situation for
the local fleet by providing dredging equipment, an extended landing jetty, a
slipway, and the rehabilitation of existing facilities. The study recommended
that these investments be financed by DANIDA and IDA but IDA declded in February
1989 not to finance them in viev of the approaching and already extended, closing
date of June 30, 1989. DANIDA has not yet decided whether or not to finance the
study proposals.  Although rehabilitation and expansion of the facilities at
Khawbah may be justified in view of the size of the fleet operating fron this
area, and the large daily catches being landed, such action should only be
contemplated following satisfactory arrangements for maintenance and operation
of the facilities having been put in place.
4.04 Imnlementation Delays. Though the IDA credit was approved in May 1980, it
became effective only in April 1981, mainly becai':s of delay in DANIDA's approval
of its co-financing of the project for US $2.5 million equivalent. The project
was expect-d to be completed by June 30, 1985, ard the closing date was set at
June 30. 1986. Project implementation of road and water supply in Khawbah, and
the credit program were very much delayed. In response to various problems, the
closing date came to be extended four times, orn the last occasion to June 30,
1990. The credit was finally closed on February 8, 1991, and an undrawn balance
of $1.6 million was cancelled. The following were among the principal factors
which led to this major slippage in implementation:
i)    GCDFR's initial preoccupation with undertaking commercial operations
e.g. industrial shrimp trawling and local fish marketing, to the
relative neglect of its responsibility for project implementation
and maintenance, and support for artisanal fishermen. After GCDFR
was unable to organize construction of the road link to Rhawbah for
aix years, the Tihama Development Authority (TDA) was asked to take
over implementation of this component; it succeeded in starting
construction, which then was aborted following financial disputes
with the contracto^.
ii)   Delay in the appointment of the Project Manager and in staffing the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
iii)  Delays in recruiting the technical specialists, notably the one for
fishery credit.
iv)   Time spent on exploring possililities of construction of vessels of
an improved design, which had been unrealistically expected at
appraisal to be constructed locally.   Subsequent experimentation



with imported small Japanese vessels (not financed by IDA) proved
ineffective largely due to weak GCDFR management rather than flawed
vessel designs.
v)    Extensive disp-tes with, and delays in payments to, consultants ard
contractors which held up work.
vi)   Difficulties experienced by contractors in taking over sites for
construction and in obtaining work and travel permits; and
vii)   Procurement-related delays e.g. differences between CACB and the
High Tender Board regardir% a contract for the importation of
engines and delays in the clearance by customs of equipment imported
for the project.
4.05  Role of GCDFR During appraisal it was assumed that the newly established
GCDFR would construct, operate and maintain project facilities, process and
transport part of the catch, administer technical assistance, develop inland
markets and provide marketing and other information and, most importantly, it
would carry out most of these activities as commercially sound operations.
However, the agreed view that the corporation would essentially focus on its
service functions vis-a-vis the artisanal fishermen including processing and
marketing of fish and not undertake industrial fishing and marketing activities
on its own was not clearly set out in the credit documents or the SAR. Nor was
the concept of the corporation as an institution with diverse functions analyzed
from a financial perspective. The general ambivalence in respect of its role
gave rise to major problems during implementation. Beginning almost from the
first IDA supervision of the project, there was concern that the corporation was
trying to deviate from this role as perceived by IDA.
4.06 When the issue was raised by IDA, the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries
repeatedly confirmed that the Government intended to implement the project in
accordance with the Credit Agreement and that the corporation's activities would
be consistent with this assumption. Since the Credit Agreement was not very
clear, the Bank staff found cause for concern, caused by the considerable delay
in staffing the PIU, the corporation's decision to establish another shrimp
processing and fish meal plant - this time in Hodeidah, in addition to the DANIDA
financed shrimp processing facility in Khavbah - and its ambitious program to
develop an industrial scale shrimp fishing capability through the acquisition of
two 22-meter industrial shrimp trawlers with on-board processing and freezing
facilities.   The shrimp/fish processing plant at Hodeidah could hardly be
justified on the basis of prevailing marketing patterns for shrimp. With GCDFR
management expressing interest in initiating fish price support and regulation
operations, the plant might have become a further justification for such
interference  in the local market.   IDA raised strong objections notably
concerning the trawlers,of which the performance was considered technically and
economically questionable. In the absence of information about an adequate of f-
shore shrimp population, there was a risk that the trawlers would move in-shore
and come into conflict with small-scale shrimp catching operations, as had
happened earlier with a fleet of trawlers which had been licensed to operate in



7 -
the area. Both the corporation and the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
appeared to em-phasize more the urgent need to increase the fish supply in the
country and, for this reason, to focus on large scale, industrial fishing
(although the vessels would mainly catch modest amounts of shrimps, which hardly
qualify as a poor man's food), while the Central Planning Organization and IDA
underlined the project objective of improving the position of the artisanal
fishermen and hence the importance of the services which the corporation had to
provide. It was only following insistent IDA protests at the highest levels of
Government that the p-rchase of the two trawlers was eventually dropped, and the
possibility began to be explored of leasing or selling the Hodeidah plant to the
private sector.   Such transfer never materialized - and was constrained by
reported legal proceedings affecting the supplier - and the plant, having never
been used, and being located in an area affected by shifting sand dunes, ls now
completely covered by sand.  The Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries did
inform a Bank supervision mission in 1985 that Government had decided to abolish
the corporation but this decision was apparently reversed later, and the
corporation has continued in existence. However, there was some change in the
orientation of the corporation's activities in the last few years, in terms of
improved staffing of the PIU, greater attention to services required by small-
scale fishermen such as extension and ice supply, and the transfer of some
facilities in Hodeidah harbor to the private sector. However, its maintenance
function has consistently received inadequate attention.
4.07 In general, the financial performance of the corporation did not reflect
the principle that its functions should be carried out on sound commercial lines.
On the other hand, the financial structure of the corporation was never assessed
in terms of the actual costs of maintenance and other services the corporation
was supposed to provide, and how such costs would be financed. In the event the
corporation has had to depend on funding by the central government and on the 5X
charge on traditional fish landings for meeting its costs, which were high due
to substantial over-staffing. Ideally, the corporation should have been deriving
its income from the operation of commercially viable facilities, or from leasing
them out to private sector, and obtain the funds for maintenance of the
facilities from the 5X charge on the value of the landed catch auctioned along
the coast. The cost effectiveness of the corporation's production operations
(ice manufacture in Khawbah and Midi and the fishing operations of an eleven
vessel fleet of smal'. craft) and marketing operations (sales to the military)
remained doubtful throughout the project implementation period as a result of
weak management, inappropriate prices and very high overhead couts. A large
proportion of its financial resources has been applied to its own office complex
and the construction and operation of some non-project facilities.  In these
circumstances, the corporation has failed to accord the necessary priority and
resources to the maintenance of the ports and the processing facilities which are
essential for ensuring the usefulness of these various facilities operated by it.
This has caused the harbor at Khawbah to silt up, and has delayed maintenance
dredging in the Hodeidah port,
4.08 To address these issues, it was agreed between the Government, DANIDA and
IDA in 1986 that, with a view to improving GCDFR's performance and especially its
service and maintenance functions, it should be reorganized, with separate



-8-
Divisions being established to deal with i) administration and management ii)
extension services and iii) commercial activities.  The proposals vere never
implemented.   The major factors accounting for unsatisfactory institutional
performance of the orolect were that: ti2 during appraisal ths role of the
cor2oration wag insufficiently analyzed and aareed upon. (Mi) the Cor2oration's
Manag-Esnt did not prove equal to the requirements of the 2roiect: and (ii) the
Ministry of Agriculture was unable to compensate for this shortfall.
F. Proict Results.
5.01  Credit Component.   The basic project objective of strengthening the
capacity of the small-scale fishing fleet was achieved to a substantial extent.
Despite a delayed start resulting from the absence of a credit advisor, who was
to be recruited under the technical assistance component, the credit program made
oxcellent progress and contributed substantially towards increasing the
productive capacity of the fleet through the loans made by the CACB for the
purchase of vessels, engines, nets and vessel zepairs. The progr.m was initially
handicapped by the fact that marine engines could not be imported because of a
shortage of foreign exchange. However, it gathered momentum after the problem
was resolved through the procurement of marine engines and small boats by CACB
with IDA financing, in accordance with international competitive bidding
procedures, which allowed consumer preference to play a role. The entire lending
program financed under the project totalled YRls. 18.43 million, for which 856
loans were made totalling YRls 13.18 million. The significance of this component
was most clearly reflected by improvement in CACS's loan recovery performance
for its fisheries related portfolio, the rate of collection of such loans rising
from 36X in June 1985, for the CACB fishery loan portfolio prior to the start of
the project credit component, to 83X as of December 31, 1990. Not only did the
quality of the loan portfolio improve dramatically, CACB managed to reduce
lending costs and enhance recovery by various novel credit techniques, including
the introduction of group lending and guarantees. But the key to the success of
the credit component was the improvement in service to the fishermen, who usually
had to visit CACB's Hodeidah office for days on end to obtain a loan. Under the
project, CACB staff would visit fishing villages regularly once every one or two
weeks, at which time groups of fishermen would ask for loans. Although the loans
would be granted to individual fishermen, groups of six fishermen would be
mutually responsible  for repayment.    This  feature  reduced  the need for
collateral. CACB staff handled most paperwork in the field, and fishermen rarely
had to make more than one visit to Hodeidah to obtain the loan. Repayment was
equally handled during village visits. Equally important, the regular visits
allowed CACB staff to obtain an intimate knowledge of the activities, character
and attitudes of their borrowers, making appraisals of loan requests more
realistic. The success of the fishery credit program was to a large extend the
result of the work of the consultant credit specialist, who managed to set up a
viable and sustainable credit program in a difficult sector and environment,
providing an example of sound fishery lending which is now being copied in
various other countries. The fisheries credit operations may be expected to have
a very positive impact on the economic benefits of the project.



-9-
5.02 Hodeidah Harbor. The fisheries harbor and other facilities at Hodeidah
should be considered a successful investment; they were constructed as planned
at appraisal and are currently used to full capacity. In addition to planned
activities such as unloading of catch, supply of privately produced ice, water
and fuel, repair and mooring of vessels, this port is also being used for the
wholesale marketing of shrimp trucked in from other locations. In general, the
expanding fleet, made possible as a result of the credit component and the harbor
infrastructure appear to have had a significant impact in terms of modernizing
and improving the operations and livelihood of the small fishermen near Hodeidah.
Although catch records are not available on a site specific basis, landings in
Hodeidah and Rhawbah have increased substantially during the past ten yea-s, as
witnessed by the fact that Hodeida'h started out with five auctioneers auctioning
fish, while at present fourteen auctioneers are active. To handle the increased
volume, the project constructed a second auction hall within the Hodeidah port,
to particularly handle large volumes of small pelagic species.
5.03 Khawbah Harbor. The construction of small harbor and other facilities at
Khawbah, upgraded as compared to plans at appraisal, and the DANIDA-financed
addition of a shrimp processing plant at this village have been completed but the
facilities are virtually not being utilized, partly because of siltation which
has emerged as a major problem for the harbor. The shrimp processing plant has
never operated for reasons explained before. Various efforts have been made
since 1988 to utilize these facilities, but none has materialized so far. This
includes a proposal for organization of a Yemen Fishing Company with
participation by private entrepreneurs, GCDFR and other public sector agencies
for exploiting the country's fish and shrimp resources with industrial vessels.
Recently the Coastal Fishing Corporation (CFC) from the former Peoples Democratic
Republic of Yemen has started fishing in the area with vessels which are only
slightly larger than those proposed for introduction during appraisal of this
project. CFC has not yet decided whether to utilize the existing facilities at
Khawbah, or to construct nev facilities at a different location.
5.04 The use of Khawbah harbor facilities by the fishermen has been limited
becLase of the fact that they were not designed to service the small-scale fleet.
When the original plans for a small-scale fishing jetty were modified,
insufficient attention was paid to the needs of the large artisanal fleet.
GCDFR's poor promotional efforts, the fishermen's distrust of the corporation
(and the feeling of being treated as second class citizens because Hodeidah
received a full fledged harbor), the inadequate staffing of the facilities,
inadequate maintenance resulting in siltation and breakdown in operations, lack
of spare parts, etc. made things worse. However, the attitude of the fishermen
towards the corporation and their willingness to use the facilities has improved
somewhat over time, notably when the plant started to produce cheap ice for which
local demand exceeded supply.
5.05 The Khawbah water supply scheme was completed in June 1989, after some
delays, and further vork on the local distribution network and the construction
of a new well were undertaken with local financing. The construction of the
Khawbah Road link, which had to be coordinated with TDA, was finally commenced
in October 1989 and was expected to be completed in May/June 1990. However, work



- 10 -
came to be stopped when it wvs only half completed because of a dispute between
the contractor and the government in regard to payment in foreign currency. The
road has not been completed yet.
5.06 Fishermen service centers at Khawbah and Mocha and retail fish markets at
Dhamar, Ibb and Sanaa were completed under the project but are not being used.
The markets have been unable to attract traders because of their unsatisfactory
location and because most fish in the cities is marketed through informal private
channels and local shops.  Their design and location had been determined in
cooperation with local officials, who may have had difficulty in assessing future
fish marketing practices and the requirements of future market facilities. The
service centers were unable to compete with private repair facilities and being
part of GCDFR, lacked the financial and management ability to provide competitive
services. Their operations were further constrained by the existence of single
agents for spare parts of the inboard and outboard engines used in Yemen, who
charged monopoly prices until 1988, when because of the general lack of foreign
exchange, their spare parts and engines imports virtually stopped. Until the
Gulf war cheaper spares were available smuggled from Saudi-Arabia, but GCDFR did
not have access to them. In general, fish marketing has expanded rapidly, not
only to the major consumption centers, but also to smaller towns and villages
over the past ten years.  The project has only indirectly (through increased
production and improved auction facilities) affected this development.
5.07 ShrLim Vessels. The original plan to introduce small-scale shrimp vessels
based on a new design did not materialize. During project design, the difficulty
of introducing new vessel designs, be it based on the traditional hull form of
the local 'sambuks',  for a non-existing fishery were underestimated.   The
project included a demonstration component, in which foreign fishermen would
demonstrate  the new technology.   The fishermen were recruited,  but were
restricted in their task by lack of ice, delays in payments, but above all by
lack of effective support from GCDFR in demonstrating the effectiveness of the
technology to local fishermen. Almost at the same time, a highly successful
shrimp trawl fishery with only slightly modlfied 'sambuks' developed largely
through private initiative and is seen to be expanding at Hodeidah.
5.07 Economic Analysis. Recalculation of the ERR of the project is difficult
on account of the lack of hard production and cost data from Yemen. The Staff
Appraisal report (SAR) assumed that the maximum sustainable yield of fish in YAR
waters was about 30,000 tons and that the annual catch in 1980 was about 11,600
tons, and that the annual catch would rise to about 21,000 tons as a result of
thSe project. No with/without project analysis was performed. A DANIDA mission
estimated in 1985 that the annual catch had already reached a level of over
20,000 tons in 1984, and this still excluded small catches sold directly to
consumers in coastal villages and fish sold by Yemeni fishermen at sea and in
Saudi Arabia in exchange for goods in high demand in Yemen. With unreported
catches virtually impossible to estimate, it has been assumed for the
recalculated ERR that production would have increased from 16,000 tons (11,000
ton estimated at appraisal) in 1981 to 19,000 tons in 1987, entirely financed by
the sector itself. Yemeni fishermen require a new outboard engine and fishing
gear every three years, and inboard engines are replaced every 8-10 years. With



- 11 -
foreign exchange being restricted during 1988-1990, imports of spare parts, gear
and engines would have stagnated without the project, and productior of fish has
been estimated to decline to 17,000 tons, while increasing slightly during and
after the unification. With project production is estimated to have increased
to 29,000 tons following unification. Fish prices are based on world market
levels for shrimp, and local levels for fish, which are higher than world market
prices for most species. All benefits and costs have been calculated at 1990
prices; the re-estimated project benefits have been limited to incremental fish
production, ice production and benefits of water supply at Khawbah. All other
project investments are assumed to have created no benefits. The recalculated
ERR is about 13%, compared to 28% calculated at appraisal. The lower rate of
return reflects higher investment and operating costs of the fishing fleet, and
lack of benefits of the Khawbah port and road, fish markets and fisheries service
centers at Khawbah and Mocha. Because of the lack of data, the recalculated ERR
is subject to considerable uncertainty.
G. IDA Performance
6.01 IDA performance was satisfactory in appraising certain aspects of the
project, e.g. the port in Hodeidah, the credit program, and the infrastructure
originally proposed for Khawbah. IDA staff enlisted, at every stage, technical
expertise from FAO and other sources as needed and maintained close relations
with DANIDA, the co-financier.   IDA performance was, however, weak in the
following areas:
i)    IDA staff  did not  seem to have  focussed  sufficiently during
preparation and appraisal on the institution-building aspects of the
project although they were promptly alert to the first signals of
the conflict between the project's institutional concept and the
corporation's actions. IDA did help to moderate, if not reverse,
this emerging trend by taking a firm stand against the corporation's
proposal to buy two industrial trawlers, though from non-project
funds. However, IDA staff, in cooperation with DANIDA, were much
less successful in convincing GCDFR management to more fundamentally
adjust GCDFR's objectives, organization and operations;
ii)   Project design was too complicated,  including small market and
service facilities for which institutional arrangements were weak,
and which were not well-designed and should have been omitted;
iii) A major expectation at appraisal, which proved to be wholly
infeasible in practice, related to the plan to introduce foreign
designed fishing vessels built locally and develop a shrimp fishery
quickly; and
iv)   IDA should not have agreed to the inclusion of the DANIDA-financed
shrimp processing plant at Khawbah until commercial shrimp
operations and regular market arrangements had been established.



- 12 -
6.02 The quality of IDA supervision efforts improved once staff with experience
in fisheries projects, who had not been involved in preparation and appraisal of
this project became involved in the project.  Mid-way through implementation
there was also some improvement in the Bank staff relations with the management
of the corporation, which had been unsatisfactory from the inception of the
project. Over the life of the project as a whole, the frequency of supervision
missions was somewhat lower than that ordinarily expected for a problem project.
The corporation's financial position and the issue of financing of the
corporation's maintenance and service obligations did not appear to have received
adequate attention during supervision, partly perhaps because no financial
analyst visited the project in the later years of implementation, and partly
because there was no fundamental agreement on the basic o -iectives of the
corporation.   IDAIs decision to extend project implement&.1.on by repeated
extension of the Closing date was only partly justified; it allowed the
successful credit component to continue, the Khawbah water supply to be completed
and the road link to be (partly) constructed, but few expected institutional
benefits of such extension have emerged.
H. Borrower Performance
7.01 Borrower responsibility for the project rested mainly with the GCDFR,
except for policy decisions for which the government, acting mainly through the
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and the Central Planning Organization
(CPO), was the final authority. It was not always clear, however, whether the
Ministry or CPO were able to effectively influence the corporation. Delays in
regard to counterpart funding for meeting local expenditures adversely affected
project implementation in more than one instance, as, for example, for meetins
GCDFR's project-related obligations, the construction of the road link, and the
water supply component. Borrower performance was also deficient in terms of the
time taken to select consultants, the weakness of its locally recruited
professional staff, and the slow processing of procurement, notably during later
stages of project implementation.   Fisheries credit was the area in which
performance was  commendable.    Significant progress  was made by CACB  in
publicizing the available facilities, increasing the volume of credit disbursed,
reducing lending costs and improving the quality of the lending portfolio. On
the other hand, no similar success attended the fisheries extension program which
was handicapped by lack of clear goals, budgetary constraints, lack of equipment
and poor transport facilities. However, the key area of less than satisfactory
performance related to the management, operation and maintenance and repair of
project financed facilities. (See para 9.01 below). Lastly, GCDFR has not been
prompt in furnishing project progress reports.



- 13 -
I.  Consultants Performance
8.01 The project included a substantial component of technical assistance,
covering consultantcy services for design and supervision of construction as well
as project management and expertise in technical areas.   Of the technical
assistance team, the Project Manager took up his position only in July 1982, more
than one year after Credit Effectiveness, and combined in himself the role of the
fish marketing advisor, a specialty included in the contemplated package of
technical assistance. le was only moderately effective, and left the assignment
in November 1984, and the position remained vacant till the completion of the
project. Consultants for construction design and supervision were also appointed
late but were available for the period anticipated by the SAMR. The relations
between the design consultants and GCDFR were clouded by a dispute, over an
extended period, in regard to their claim for higher fees during the maintenance
period of the contract and the corporation's claims concerning an inappropriate
design, relating, in particular, to the work on the Khawbah harbor, which
permitted siltation. This issue and another, similarly protracted dispute with
the principal contractor for the construction of the project facilities were
settled in a mutually satisfactory manner in November 1990, just in time for the
relevant disbursement to be completed before the IDA credit was closed. The
position of a boat builder was dropped once domestic boat building came to be
ruled out. A master fisherman from Sri Lanka, with a supporting crew, spent two
separate periods of 7 months and one year to train local fishermen in the use of
Imported vessels. Their performance was commendable, but this effort proved
unsatisfactory, because the crew did not receive the needed local support in
regard to their stay, funding for their expenses, spare parts, etc. The credit
advisor who took his position in August 1985 helped formulate, promote and carry
out the CACB's fisheries credit program; that he was kept on by the institution
even after the completion of the project reflected a recognition of his
effectiveness. He had a major impact on the ultimate outcome of the project.
The fisheries extension specialist and a marine engineer were appointed only in
1987 but could not have much impact before the expiry of their contract in 1989
because of limited budgetary allocations, poor transportation facilities and
procurement delays relating to the fishery equipment needed by them.
J. Project Sustainability
9.01 Prospects for the sustainability of the project impact are somewhat
uncertain.   The infrastructure facilities established under the project in
Hodeidah and to a much lesser extent in Khawbah will continue to benefit the
coastal fishermen but its usefulness will largely depend on satisfactory
maintenance arrangements.   Concerned that the matter had not been seriously
addressed by the project authorities beyond ensuring compliance of the
contractors and suppliers obligations, and that facilities and equipment could
be damaged, DANIDA came forward in 1988 to prepare an interim program for
maintenance and repair.   This included the provision of a small dredger.
expansion of ice production at Khawbah and the supply of some maintenance
materials for the corporation.  The financing of this program is still being
considered by DANIDA, although it appears unlikely financing will be forthcoming.
GCDFR has never carried out any of the reports recommendations.   Following



- 14 -
unification, the Government has decided to amalgamate the corporation with its
counterpart in the former PDRY (the National Corporation for Fish Marketing -
NCFM) and with the Harine Services and Maintenance Corporation. The new company
will, among others, be responsible for all maintenance of all marine structures
and other infrastructure serving the fishing sector. However, the financing of
the substantial postponed maintenance is uncertain at this moment.   As for
support services such as extension, the Government's ability to continue such
services would depend on future budgetary provision and/o' external financing
such as was offered by DANIDA; virtually none is being provided at present.
Meanwlhile, the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries in the former YAR appeared
inclined to transfer fishery extension services to the newly formed Ministry of
Fisheries; arrangements are currently being made to upgrade and improve fishery
extension in the former PDRY, which may also cover the coast of the former YAR.
Concerning the privatization of some of the services provided by GCDFR, IDA and
DANIDA suggested to the Government more than once that these facilities be sold
or leased to the private sector; the authorities and the corporation only leased
some facilities to priiate operators following Closing of the Credit. However.
although it was proposed even at appraisal that a private company should be found
to handle the facilities at Khawbah, this has not yet happened.
9.02 CACB's fisheries credit program is a notable exception to this general
uncertainty about sustainability. CACB's project related fishery lending program
only gathered momentum in the second half of the project implementation period.
The expatriate adviser who contributed significantly to this achievement stayed
on after project completion and helped train CACB personnel in lending policies
and procedures; he is currently involved in organization of CACB fishery credit
activities of the Fourth Fisheries Project in ROY. Staff trained by the adviser
continue to service the fishing sector, and CACB activities in the fishing sector
continue to grow; CACB has recently received additional support from the Kuwait
Fund for Social and Economic Development and the International Fund for
Agricultural Development for continuation of the fishery credit program in the
project area. Sustainability in the long run will depend on the rate of interest
and the CACB margin charged on its loans to accommodate its lending costs. The
margin (7 percent) has been generally adequate under the IDA project, but current
rates of inflation obviously exceed nominal interest rates for loans to the
fishing sector, as with other sectors in the economy.
K. Tessous Learned.
10.01 The principal lessons learned or confirmed, as a result of the experience
with this project, are summarized below:
(i)   projects  in new  sectors  in  countries  with  institutional  and
personnel constraints should be kept relatively simple in design and
modest in size and scope, and will need a relatively long time to be
implemented;
(ii)  before a public sector corporation is proposed as the implementing
agency, its objectives, and the organizational, technical and
financial implications - including satisfactory arrangements for



- 15 -
maintenance of project facilities - should be clearly spelled out
and agreed upon with the Government after other institutional
alternatives have been carefully reviewed;
(iii) no investment in major infrastructure should be contemplated prior
to establishment of a fishery;
(iv) adjustments of projects resulting from the availability of co-
financing should be equally carefully appraised as other project
components;
(v)   beneficiaries of fisheries projects, such as artisanal fishermen,
and their organizations, like cooperatives, should be effectively
involved in technical and institutional aspects of project design
and in implementation; and
(vi) new types of flshing vessels should only be introduced following a
careful review of design parameters, and extensive testing of a few
vessels of the new design under commercial conditions; the testing
may involve more than one generation of steadily improved test
vessels before a vessel design  may be fully accepted by local
fishermen.
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BOROES PERSPECTIVE
(The Borrower was requested to provide a review, but none was received)



- 16 -
PART III
Statistical Data
Tablo I
Related IDA Credits
Loan Credit                                Year  of
No.                 Titlg              Approval           Status
Cr. 1025-YAR      Fisheries Development
Project                  1980             Closed
Cr. 370-YDR       First Fisheries Project   1973               Closed
Cr. 932-YDR       Second Fisheries Project  1978               Closed
Cr. 1274-YDR      Third Fisheries Project   1982               Closed
Cr. 2265-YAR      Four Fisheries Project    1991        Not Yet Effective



- 17 -
Table I;
A. Proiect Timetable
Date              Date               Date
Ieem              ~~~PLanned         Revised            Actual
- Identification
Executive Project Summary                                          0/75
- Preparation                                                        06/77
- Appraisal                     09/79                                10/79
- Credit Negotiations           03/80                                04/80
- Board Approval                                                     05/20/80
-Credit Signature                                                    06/06/8a
-Credit Effectiveness          10/06/80                              04/14/81
-Credit Closing                06/30/86     06/30/87
06/30/88
06/30/89
06/30/90                06/30/90
-Credit Completion             06/30/85                              06/01/91
The project was identified by an FAO Identification Mission.
Appraisal Mission Members: U. Kiermayr (IDA mission leader).
H. Gunavardena (FAO Fisheries Specialist), G. Maffini (Economist
Consultant) and J. Traung (Naval Architect).



- 18 -
Table II
B. Missions
Stage of         Month/      No. of Persons   No. of Days    Type  of
Project Cycle       Year         in Field       in Field   Specialization   Rating
Preparation      1976/
1978
Appraisal         10/79
Supervision      12/81            4                 7      FA, FS, NA, E.       2
12/82            3                6      E, PE, FS            2
06/83            4               10      E, PE, Ac/MA, NA      3
07/84            3                7      FA, NA, FS           3
12/84            4               12      E, Ag.Cr. Sp/FA,
PE, Sm.Sc.FS       3
10/85            2               18      Ag.Ec., FS           3
02/86            2               11      Ag.Ec., FS           2
04/86            1                5      FA                    2
12/86            2               10      Ag.Ec., FS           2
10/87            1               11      FS                   2
05/88            2               12      Ag.Ec., FS            3
03/89            2                6      Ag.Ec., FS            3
10/89            1                7      Ag.Ec.                3
11/89            1                       Ag.Ec.                3
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__-----------
List of Abbreviations:
FA - Financial Analyst                   FS - Fisheries Specialist
NA - Naval Architect                     E - Economist
PS - Port Engineer                       AC/NA- Accountant/Management Analyst
Ag.Ec - Agricultural Economist
Ag.Cr.Sp/FA - Agricultural Credit Specialist/Financial Analyst
Sm.Sc. FS - Small Scale Fisheries Specialist
Performance Status Rating:
1 - Problem Free or Minor Problem
2 - Moderate Problem
3 - Major Problems



-   19   -
Table II
C. Studies
Purpose as                                                      Impact of
Studies                                  Defined at ADoraisaL                      Status                           Study
Artisanal Fisheries and                    To identify type, size and         Completed.  Study                   None
marketing Study                            number of fishing craft            was carried out by FAO
Shrimp Fishing Industry                    To determine catch rates and       Completed.  Study was               Commercial
Study.                                      feasibility of commercial         undertaken by Continental           shrimp fishing
shrimp operations.                Seafoods of the US.                 was not started
but, local arti-
senal fishery
has developed
sizeable
industry.
Feasibility Study for                      To determine the most likely       Completed. Study was super-         Plans for
Landing Sites.                             harbors and landing places.        vised by FAO/UNOP                   further
development of
harbours have
not been carried
out due to Lack
of financing.



- 20 -
TABLE III
IDA Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
Appraisal             Actual          Actual as %
Year        Estimates           pisbursements      of Appraisal
1981          2,220                 141                 6.35
1982          6,900                 500                 7.24
1983         13,400               3,700                27.61
1984         16,400               6,400                39.02
1985         17,000               9,000                52.94
1986            --                9,700                57.05
1987            --               10,000                58.82
1988            --               10,300                60.58
1989           --                12,200                71.76
1990            --               15,380                90.00



- 21 -
TABLE IV
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key Performance Indicators
Appraisal          Actual (or
Indicators                           Estimates          PCR Estimate)
----------Completion Dates-----------
A.   Construction
1.    Fish Landing Facilities
Hodeidah Port                   1984                  1984
Khawbah                         1984                  1984
Khawkhah                        1982                  1982
Mocha                           1982                  1982
2.    Fish Markets
Sana'a                          1982                  1986
Taiz                            1982                  1986
Tbb                             1982                  1986
3.    nawbah Water
supply                            1983                  1989/90
4.    Khawbah Road                       1983                  exp. 1991
5.    ShrimR Processing
Plant/Ice Factory                 1983                  1984
Financed by DANIDA
-------------US$ million---------------
B.    Credit                           US$ 1.0 Million         US$ 1.8 Million
C.    Technical Assistance
--------------Staff months---------------
1.  Eng. Consultants design      23                         23
2.  Naval Architect               3                           3
3.  Project Manager              60                         23
4.  Eng. Consultant/Spn.         96                         135
5.  Credit Adviser               36                         48
6.  Boat Builder                 36                           -
7.  Master of Fisherman          36                          16
8.  Crew of Fishermen            72                          80
9.  Fish Marketing Advisor       48                           -
10.  Extension Specialist         --                          22
11.  Marine Engineer              --                          12
Total Technical Assistance    410                          362



- 22 -
TABLE V
Project Costs and Financing
(USe Million)
Ieem               APDraisal                    Actual
Hodeida port and                     )
Khawbah fish                         )
landing pier              9.28       )              13.20
)
Khawkah and Micha                    )
facilities                0.32       )
Inland Fish Markets       0.61                       0.21
Fisheries Credit
program for vessels
and engines             4.64                      4.40
Transport vehicles        0.21                        .06
Khawbah Road Link         1.00                       1.13
Technical assistance
and equipment           2.64                       5.00
Base costs                18.01                       -
Physical and price
contingencies          11.60
TOTAL COSTS        30.30                     24.00
Prolect Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
ADDraisal                   Actual
IDA                      17.0                       15.40
DANIDA                    4.0                        4.0
Credit Beneficiaries      1.3                        1.5
Government                8.0                        3.1
Total           30.30                      24.0



- 23 -
TABLE VI
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal            Estimated at   Estimated at Full
Indicators        Estimates             Closing Date       DeveloDment
Jobs              1,000                   1,500                    1,500
Incremental
Production
(tons)          9,600                  11,000                   11,000
Beneficiaries
B. Economic and Financial Impact
Appraisal                 Actual
Economic                  Estimates           (At Full Development)
Rate of Return             28%                       13X



Ilk. RECA&CULAIED ECNOMIC RATE Ol RETURN
.............    ...............................
1961      1982      1983      1984      1965      1986       1987      1968      1989      1990      1991      1992  I3-2000
With Project Fish Prod. (tons)         16000      1700      1800      20000     2100      22000     23000     2600       27000     27000     29000     29000     28000
ilthout Prolect Flsh Prod. (tons)      16000                1000      19000     19000     19000     19000      19000     180       17000     15000     l1000     1700
Increentel Production (tons)                     -                     1000      2000      3000      4000      7O00      9000     10000      11000     11000     11000
of ihAch shrunp (tons)                                                                              100       200       400        500       500       500       500
1. Inc biefIts (VtL 8000)                                            14000    28000      42000    61800    109600    149200    169000    183000    183000    183000
Other  enwefits: Water                      -                                                                                      5000       5000      5000      5000
Ice SIupply                                                        -                2160      2160      2160      2160      2160      2160
total 8ef1 ts                                                         14000    28000      42000     63960    111760    151360    176160    190160    190160    18000
It. Oparating Costs  Ports                                      -          -    12000     12000     12000     24000     24000     24000    24000      36000      48000
Plant                -                   -         -    12000      12000     12000     12000     12000     12000     12000      12000      2000
Total operating Costs.
Infrastructure                                      -         -              24000      24000     24000     36000     36000     36000     36000     48000      50000
Existing fleet supported                                                                                                                                                        4>
by project:  No. of b,url's                           -                  32        64        96       130       260       350       380        430       430       430           1
Mo. of S5z                              --                  10        20        30        35        60        65        To        75         75        7S
New mwber of Smbuus                                                                                     5        20        25        30         30        30        30
Total Operating Costs, fleet                                           4172      8342     12516     16730     33480     3850      42980     45780      45780     45780
lotel Operating Costs, project                        -               4172    32342       36516     40130     69480     74850     78980     81780      937B0     95780
111. Investment Costs
Nodeldhi/KhwlAh  ports                           51446     70200     84960      38640      6000
Vater supply/rood                                                                                    6388                6500       7000
Other facilities                                                       2657
New boats, repair old boats,
and replacemet                                                      5000      5000      5000     20000     25000     25000      14000    18000      14000     1400O
Total Investmntat                                51446     70200     90635     42640      110o0     26388     25000     31500     21000    1BO00       14000     1400
IV. Net *enfits (ery'OO)                       1514461   (702001   (808071   (469821    (S5161    (1581       I728O     45010    7?6480    90380       8230      78220
EMt 13.31
Ct:WAIA.GVS.UKI



- 25 -
Assumptions
1.    Average Fish Prices (1990) - YR1 14/kg
2.    Average Shrimp prices (1990) - YR1 72/kg
3.    Ice production 10 ton/300 days at YR1 720/ton
YR1
4.    Operating costs Hours:                    Fuel               8,500
Maintenance        2,000
Labour            10,000
Miscellaneous        500
21,000
Sambuks:    Fuel              98,000
Maintenance      100,000
Labour           102,000
Miscellaneous    50.000
350,000
5.    Productions Houri:  17 ton/year
Sambuk: 45 ton/year of which 5 ton shrimp
6.    Investment costs (on basis of 1990 prices, assumed inflation rate 10, no
change in exchange rate)



- 26 -
TABLE VII
Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant                      Compliance                      Status
Establish PIU                    09/80      ~     ate compliance; Project
Manager appointed in 1982, but
was not replaced in 1984.
CACB/credit expert to            12/80           Late compliance, expert
prepare lending program                                 was appointed in 1986.
Increase CACB's capital
to YR1 200 m.; review
every 2 years.                   12/80            In compliance.
Review YRI 2 mil. capital        12/82           Reviewed 10/87; no
increase                                                change proposed.
Review lending rates             12/81            No change since 80/81
Rates have been reviewed
but not adjusted.
Quarterly progress report        10/89           Regular reports from
CACB; no reports from
CGDFR since 1986.
Audited accounts                                        Late compliance.



- 27 -
TABLE VIII
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
[Y75 FY76 PY77 PY78 FY79 Y80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89   90 FY91  PY2 TOTAL
Preapprais.  0.1  6.3  2.9  17.8 60.6 33.1                                                                   120.8
Appraisal                               66.7                                                                 66.7
Negotiation                             3.2                                                                  3.2
Supervision                             1.1   8.7  11.9 32.2 11.9 24.2 15.4 5.6  15.2 11.3 8.5  6.5  2.5  155.0
Other              ___  0.3  1.2 0.7  13.8    ___0.1_                                                        16.1
TOTAL  0.1  6.3  3.2  19.0 61.3 117.9 8.7  11.9 32.2 11.9 24.2 15.4 5.7  15.2 11.3 8.5  6.5  2.5  361.8



EGYPT                            A. ^? E r                                                     REPUBUC OF YEMEN
'~---~0 $  SAUIQI ARABIA -t                             FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
, %  __(%MAIN                                                Hodeidah Fisheries Harbor
SUDAN(
OltANg S+ Project area                                                                        Shoreline
DJIo            of A                                                           Project buildings     - 2-   Bathymetric contours in meters
.S  ETHI0PIA  \._.        /{   t                                         I l i 1 l 11 l l Embonkments   -'-7-    Elevation contours in meters
~'ETHIOPIA  ~OAI 
C7                                      ?                      JX i - Existing buildings
j*                          \                           / o                   / d  iI Hndlinges
..e~xwid is m~  tVwn\                 FiTh 11wknonsonh
2   w  r nbubu    na   m  ont0    20   40   60    80   100                                                                                                                   1
METE.S ,,.                                              _
,                                                                                                                                  1          



