Document of
The World Bank                                          'WA#
FmIBLE COPYt
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2859-YAR
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 15, 1980
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                  Yemeni Rials (YRls) 4.50
YR1 1.00            =    US$0.22
YRls 1 million      =    US$222,222
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 meter (m)             =    3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)        =    0.62 miles
I hectare (ha)          =    2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)      =    2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
YAR          Yemen Arab Republic
DOF     =    Department of Fisheries
MOA     =    Ministry of Agriculture
PIU     =    Project Implementation Unit
GCDFR   =    General Corporation for the Development of
Fish Resources
MOM           Ministry of Municipalities
HA      =    Highway Authority
ACB     =    Agricultural Credit Bank
FISCAL YEAR
July 1     -  June 30 (Prior to 1980)
July 1     -  December 31 (1980)
January 1  -  December 31 (From 1981)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND ..........................................                              1
A.    Project Origin  .................................                            1
B.    Fisheries  in the National Economy  ....                ..........           1
C.    Government  Policy and IDA Lending Strategy  ......                          2
II.    THE FISHERIES SECTOR  .....            ..................                           3
A.    General  Characteristics  ........................                           3
B.    The Fishermen  ..................................                            3
C.    Fish Resources  .................................                            4
D.    Fishing Technology  .............................                            5
E.    Fish Production  ................................                            5
F.    Fishermen's  Income  .........   .            ....................           6
G.    Fish Distribution and Marketing  ....                  ............          7
H.    Use of Ice  ....................................                             8
I.    Fish Exports  and Imports  .......................                           8
J.    Jizan  in Saudi Arabia  ..........................                           8
III.    THE PROJECT AREA  ....................................                              9
IV.    THE PROJECT  .........................................                            10
A.    Project  Rationale,  Objectives  and Concept  ......                        10
B.    Detailed Features  ..............................                           12
C.    Cost  Estimates  .................................                         19
D.    Financing Plan  .................................                          21
E.    Procurement  ....................................                           21
F.    Disbursement  ...................................                          22
G.    Environment  ....................................                           23
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .........................                            23
A.    Project Organization During Implementation  .....                          23
B.    Organization  and Management  of Project
Operations  ...................................                         24
C.    Accounting  and Auditing  ........................                         28
D.    Monitoring and Evaluation  ......................                          28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   PROJECT PRODUCTION, MARKETING PROSPECTS AND PRICES ..         28
A.   Fish  Production   ................................      28
B. Marketing ..............                                   29
C.   Prices   ..........................................      30
VII.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ................. ..        30
A.   Project Designed Simulation Model ....    ..........     30
B.   Beneficiaries   ..................................       31
C.   Financial  Benefits   .............................      32
D.   Recovery  of  Costs   ..............................     33
E.   Economic  Benefits   ..............................      33
F.   Economic Rate of Return ........................         34
G.   Risks   ..........................................       35
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....     ..........    36
ANNEXES
1.  Detailed Characteristics in YAR's Fisheries Sector
2.   Detailed Cost Estimates
3.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4.   Agricultural Credit Bank - Project Cash Flow
5.   Schematic Representation of Model Structure Used in the
Economic Analysis
6.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File.
MAP S
IBRD Number 14749
IBRD Number 14750
IBRD Number 14751
IBRD Number 14788
LIST OF TABLES AND CHARTS IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table No.                                                                         t
4.1  Technical Assistance Provided Under the Project
4.2  Summary Cost Estimates
CHART NO.
21585  Organization Chart
21354 Implementation Schedule
21383 Sambuk Trawler
21384 Improved Sambuk



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Origin
1.01      The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has requested an
IDA credit to assist in financing the development of the country's fisheries
sector. A project was identified by a FAO/World Bank CP mission in 1975.
Subsequently the Fisheries Department of FAO has sponsored three individual
feasibility studies covering fish marketing in YAR, surveying the country's
shrimp resources and identifying suitable fish and shrimp landing sites in-
cluding designs for marine and shore facilities. Because of funding problems,
it took four years to complete the three studies.
1.02      On the basis of the three studies and a FAO/World Bank CP prepara-
tion report, the project was appraised during September/October 1979 by
Messrs. U. Kiermayr, D. Grant Duff (part time) (IDA), M. Gunawardena (FAO/
World Bank CP), G. Maffini and J. Traung (Consultants).
B. Fisheries in the National Economy
1.03      The fisheries sector of YAR has the potential to supply substantial
amounts of high quality, inexpensive animal protein. For a country which
depends heavily on imported livestock products and which is extremely poor in
exportable commodities, access to a large marine fish resource holds a
valuable development potential. YAR's 3,150 full time fishermen land about
11,600 tons of fish annually, which has an ex-vessel value of YRls 66.8
million (US$14.8 million equivalent). The country's sustainable yield has
been estimated at about 30,000 tons annually which allows for a substantial
increase over present fish production.  Fish distribution and marketing in the
country's interior is very limited as the existing fish delivery system is
inadequate for the country's climatic conditions. The sector's principal
constraints are:
(a) lack of fisheries related infrastructure;
(b) low productivity of applied fishing technology; and
(c) lack of financial, technical and educational services.



C. Government Policy and IDA Lending Strategy
1.04      So far Government involvement in fisheries in YAR has been negli-
gible, mainly because of low priority in development planning and lack of
competent staff. A growing awareness among Government officials of the
sector's potential to provide substantial amounts of badly needed animal
protein has changed this neglecting attitude and has led to some initial steps
towards setting up an institutionalized development capability.  In late 1979
a Department of Fisheries (DOF) was established within the Ministry of Agri-
culture (MOA). The DOF will formulate policy guidelines for the sector's
growth and development and will serve in an advisory capacity to the Minister
of Agriculture in all fisheries related matters. In addition, the Government
has passed legislation for the establishment of a financially and administra-
tively independent General Corporation for the Development of Fish Resources
(GCDFR). The GCDFR will be the MOA's executing agency for all fisheries
development activities; as such it will hold ownership of all publicly
financed installations and facilities in the fisheries sector and will be
responsible for their proper operation and maintenance. Although these
institutional efforts are an encouraging development, it will however, take
time before these facilities become fully operational.
1.05      With assistance from FAO/UNDP a Fishery Demonstration Training Center
was established in Hodeidah. For more than two years since its completion in
1977 the center has remained unused as no funds for any training activity
could be mobilized. Since early 1979 FAO has assigned a master fisherman to
the center who together with some local staff provide some rudimentary training
to at present 13 young Yemenis. The center which neither has any dormitory
facilities nor any fishing equipment has only very limited value as a training
facility for Yemeni fishermen.
1.06      Under the country's First Five-Year Plan (1976/77-1980/81) the
fisheries sector has been allocated YRls 90 million (US$20 million equivalent)
in development funds which represents 6% of the agricultural subsector alloca-
tion of YRls 1,440 million (US$320 million equivalent). The Government's
development strategy for the fisheries sector is part of the overall strategy
that is directed towards the goal of minimizing dependence on imported food.
The underlying principle of the Government's development strategy for the
fisheries sector is to mobilize the full potential of the country's skillful
and energetic small scale traditional fishermen rather than to rely on high
levels of imported technology which can be utilized only with massive support
for foreign provided technical assistance.
1.07      IDA's lending strategy for YAR is aimed at the creation of an
institutional framework for development through strengthening institutions and
manpower capabilities. To meet basic needs of the country's population,
projects would include components covering health, nutrition, rural water
supply and other social areas. In the field of rural development, projects
are envisaged that raise production and incomes to meet the needs of the
poorest part of the rural population. An overall lending objective is to
develop attractive income-earning opportunities as alternatives to migration.



- 3 -
1.08      The proposed project would well fit into IDA's lending strategy and
would be its first lending operation for fisheries development in YAR. The
pro; ect would be the first organized development effort ever to be undertaken
in this sector in YAR. It is designed to meet the principal development
objectives for the sector which are:
(a)  to improve its overall productivity through development of
its manpower capabilities and introduction of more advanced
fishing technologies;
(b)  to increase and improve fish supplies throughout the country
and to neighboring export markets; and
(c)  to raise the level of income and well-being among fishermen,
primarily through more equitable income distribution.
II. THE FISHERIES SECTOR
A. General Charateristics 1/
2.01      YAR has a mainland coastline of approximately 600 km along the
eastern shore of the Red Sea with a continental shelf of about 9,100 km2.
Between Bab el Mandeb in the south and Midi in the north there are about forty
fishing communities ranging in size from a substantial town like Hodeidah to
small fishing hamlets consisting of only a few palm straw huts. There are an
estimated 3,150 full time fishermen. In addition, several hundred Yemeni
fishermen migrate north for most of the year to fish from Saudi Arabian
fishing bases.
2.02      The fisheries sector of YAR is made up of individual or small scale
operations mainly concentrating on pelagic species with indian and spanish
mackerel dominating the catch. The sector is characterized by strictly
traditional fishing technology, marketing patterns and forms of organizations.
Until recently, the fisheries sector in YAR was in equilibrium with regard to
fishing effort, boat building, manpower and demand. As any other sector in
YAR, fisheries is presently undergoing substantial changes that were prompted
by increased demands for labor from outside the sector and increasing demand
for fish at the same time.
B. The Fishermen
2.03      The Yemeni fishermen are a hardworking, skillful and energetic group
who traditionally have held a low position in the country's social structure.
rneir customs and their way of living has altered very little for generations.
I/   A statistical breakdown of the sector's main characteristics is given in
Annex 1.



However, structural economic changes undergoing in the fisheries sector,
are beginning to influence the traditional system of relationships between
shore-based entrepreneurs, traders, vessel owners and skilled and unskilled
fishermen. The increasing shortage of manpower on the one side and the rising
demand for fish on the other side are changing the traditional tenure system.
Land-based vessel owners are finding it increasingly difficult to recruit
crews for their vessels; this situation is particularly evident in the town of
Hodeidah which offers varied alternative job opportunities. A trend can be
observed of vessel ownership shifting from shore-based entrepreneurs to
fishermen operating the vessel themselves. The manpower shortage also is
having its effect on income distribution in the sense that the crew members
claim higher shares of the catch than was traditionally the case.
C. Fish Resources
2.04      Reliable information on the fish resources in YAR waters are scarce.
Efforts to base fish stock estimates on catch rates, number of fishing vessels,
number of fishing days, etc. are complicated by the strong movement of Yemeni
fishermen north towards fishing bases in Saudi Arabia, mainly Jizan which is
located just north of the border. However, from the limited research efforts
that have been undertaken to evaluate the Yemeni fish resources and from
intermittent observations, it has been concluded that the annual sustainable
yield is in the order of about 30,000 tons.
2.05      Exploratory fishing and other survey works conducted over the last
four years indicate that the trawlable area in YAR waters are more than 6,000
km2 of which about 550 km2 are considered good shrimp grounds with higher
concentrations in areas north of Hodeidah. The potential yield of demersal
fish over the trawlable area is estimated at about 7,800 tons. Conservative
yield estimates per km2 of non-trawlable area add another 5,000 tons, bringing
the total demersal fish resources to between 12,000 and 13,000 tons. Based
on these calculations and estimates of present landings, the exploitation of
demersal fish could be increased by an approximate 8,000 tons per annum.
2.06      About 70% of YAR's national catch consists of pelagic species with
clupeids and scombroids clearly dominating. Resources of herring, mackerel,
sardines, anchovies and tuna would allow a doubling of presently observed
catches of 8,000 tons. So far the most systematic survey in YAR waters has
been undertaken for the assessment of shrimp resources for commercial exploita-
tion. During 1970-74 FAO/UNDP undertook survey work and during 8 months in
1977 Continental Sea Foods of the USA shrimped under simulated commercial
conditions in YAR waters. As a result, the total shrimp biomass has been
calculated at 1,700 tons within an area of 1,060 km2. The annual sustainable
yield has been estimated at 850 tons. Continental Sea Foods, during its
survey in YAR waters, registered the highest catch rate at 110 kg/hour in
December and the lowest at 23 kg/hour in June.



-5-
D. Fishing Technology
2.07      There are two types of fishing vessels in operation in YAR, the 11
to 15 m long sambuk and the smaller 6 to 10 m long houri. The sambuk, devel-
oped as a sailing craft offers little resistance and has very good course
keeping qualities; it is sufficiently stable when empty and has good stability
when loaded. The sambuk is well adapted to the marine conditions prevailing
in the Red Sea. Today, sambuks are mostly powered by 22 to 33 hp inboard
engines and have a crew of 6 to 8 fishermen. The keel, sterns, stern posts
and side planking are made of hard wood imported mainly from Malaysia. The
vessel's frames are made of domestic naturally bent wood shaped into the
required form. The sambuk does not have a watertight deck, instead loose deck
plankings are placed around the engine at the aft. Tightening of seams is
done by caulking, using cotton with tar as sealing material. On the outside,
below the water line, camel fat or shark oil is applied to keep the hull
watertight and to prevent formation of underwater growth.  The houri is a
planked canoe that today is frequently powered by a 6 to 10 hp engine and is
operated by a crew of usually two fishermen.
2.08       Boat building is done by individual boat builders who build the
ordered vessels right on the beach in their village or migrate to wherever
a contractor wants a vessel to be built. Fishing vessels are still being
constructed without the help of power tools or other mechanical devices.
Only primitive hand tools are employed. About 20 to 25 experienced boat
builders, with the help of three to four assistants each, can build about
forty new sambuks every year. Usually the contractor purchases the timber,
engine and other materials and enters into a contract with a boat builder
for the construction of the vessel either on the basis of a lump-sum payment
or on a predetermined daily wage rate. The cost of a vessel varies widely
according to location and exact specification; the most frequently quoted
price is about YRls 130,000 (US$29,000 equivalent) for a 15 m sambuk complete
with engine. The cost for a fully equipped houri ranges from YRls 20,000
to 25,000 (US$4,500 to 5,500 equivalent).
2.09      The main fishing techniques employed by the Yemeni fishermen are
gill netting with nylon fabricated imported nets that are rigged locally and
single hooks and lines. Sambuks usually carry 10 to 15 gill nets with mesh
sizes varying from 1.5 to 6 inches. The handling of the gill nets is done
manually. The houris generally use handlines with two to three baited hooks.
In most villages, beach seines are used during the season to catch sardines
and anchovies.
E. Fish Production
2.10       Fishing is generally done at night or during early morning hours.
The larger fishing vessels usually leave for the fishing grounds before
sunset and return after sunrise. The smaller fishing vessels stay out at
sea for only a few hours from before to after sunrise. At times of strong
winds during the northeast and southeast monsoons fishermen adjust their



- 6 -
time at sea to the most favorable hours. Fishing which takes place mostly
inshore close to the landing sites and around offshore islands along the
northern coastline seems to be generally good throughout the year with only
minor seasonal fluctuations.
2.11       The average number of fishing days is about 200 for houris and 225
for sambuks per year. Catch rates vary considerably according to location
and size of fishing vessel. A houri catches an average of 5 tons per year
while the larger sambuk lands about 49 tons annually. The best approxima-
tion for the size of the national fishing fleet is 972 1/ vessel units com-
prising 815 houris and 157 sambuks. Based on the number of fishing vessels,
catch rates and number of fishing days per year, total fish landings in YAR
amount to approximately 11,600 tons per year. The value of the catch to the
Yemeni fishermen has been estimated at YRls 66.8 million (US$14.8 million
equivalent).
2.12       Fish landings are concentrated at Hodeidah where fishermen land
40% of the national catch. Of the remaining fish catch, 26% is from north
of Hodeidah and 34% is from the south. About 64% of the national catch is
made up of mackerel type fish with 46% of indian mackerel and 19% spanish
mackerel or kingfish. According to observations made over a number of
years, the catch in YAR's northern waters is dominated by demersal species
while the fishing grounds in the south are richer in pelagic fish.
F. Fishermen's Income
2.13       Traditionally in YAR the catch of a fishing vessel is divided
into three equal shares of which the owner of the vessel claims one for
himself and one for the vessel. The remaining share is divided among the
crew. The average income earned by Yemeni fishermen is about YRls 11,000/
year (US$2,440/year), which amounts to a per capita income of about US$430 in
the fishing community, but this varies considerably depending on the vessel
type used and on the geographic location of the landing site. Because of
the vessel's higher productivity, the catch per fisherman on a sambuk is
about double that of a houri fisherman, 9 tons and 4 tons per year respec-
tively. The higher productivity of the sambuk is to some degree offset by the
higher prices the houri catch usually receives in the market. Because of the
difference in fishing methods, the houris land their fish usually in much
better condition. The quality price differential that has been observed is
about 15% for the same species. Fish prices in remote landing places with no
or only very limited access to outside markets tend to be lower than in
centrally located landing sites. The highest incomes are earned by fishermen
working on motorized sambuks, YRls 16,100/year (US$3,580/year), while a
fisherman working on a sail houri will only earn YRls 3,300/year (US$730).
Geographically, the highest incomes for fishermen are earned at Hodeidah,
1/   It is estimated that an additional 60 sambuks owned by Yemeni fishermen
operate exclusively from Saudi Arabian fishing bases.



-7-
YRls 14,800 (US$3,300), and the lowest are earned along the coast north of
Hodeidah between YRls 5,400-10,600/year (US$1,200-2,360/year). Assuming that
an average fisherman supports a family of five, the average income per capita
for a fisherman's household is YRls 2,200/year (US$490), somewhat lower than
the GNP per capita of YRls 2,340/year (US$520).
G. Fish Distribution and Marketing
2.14      Of the fish landing sites in YAR, 10 have some regional importance
while the remainder, mainly smaller fishing hamlets, catch fish only for
their community's own consumption. After returning from the fishing grounds,
the sambuks normally anchor outside the surf zone and the catch is unloaded
and carried ashore by special carriers or the crew who wade through the water.
At times of rough sea this way of unloading the catch is not without problems
and losses are sometimes substantial. The houris land their catch directly
on the beach from where it is carried in baskets or by the piece (in the
case of bigger fish) to the auction site. The fish auction site in a YAR
village is typically located within short distance from the main landing site
and usually does not offer any protection against the intensive sunshine.
The fish, once landed, is thrown onto the sand for inspection by potential
buyers. Sometimes the sold fish lie around for hours exposed to sun and heat
before it is removed by its buyers from the site. The site's conditions are
without exception most unhygienic, since fish remains are often littered
throughout the market area. None of the fish landing sites has any sea or
freshwater facilities for cleaning. It is right at the auction site where the
fish suffers its worst handling and where the loss in its nutritional value is
the highest.
2.15      Once the fish has arrived at the auction site it is auctioned
and sold to the highest bidder. The number of auctioneers varies with the
volume of fish landed at the landing site. At the Hodeidah fish market, the
catch is handled by up to 10 auctioneers while in smaller places their number
is not more than two. The auction commission fee is uniformly 5% of the
value of fish sold with the exception of Hodeidah where the commission is 10%.
The established auction system is quite efficient as fishermen can dispose
of their catch quickly without losing a lot of time after a night at sea. The
auction system is however not always conducive to secure the fishermen the
highest possible price, as it allows the auctioneer to take advantage of a
depressed market when he buys the fish himself at low price to resell it at
higher prices at times of active trading which frequently occurs at later
market hours when out of town traders buy fish once the local market is
saturated.
2.16      Once the auctioned fish is removed from the trading floor, it is
taken by various forms of transportation to its ultimate destination.  There
is no uniform organizational pattern of fish retail marketing in YAR. The
conditions of retail marketing are not much better than those at the initial
auctioning and the fish's rapid deterioration continues. Fish is sold out
o. baskets placed right on the sidewalk, from makeshift fish stalls and,



- 8 -
at best, at overcrowded municipal run fish markets like those in Taiz and
Sanaa which lack basic facilities like running water for cleaning and waste
disposal. One characteristic all fish retail outlets in YAR have in common is
that their conditions are all far below acceptable hygienic standards, the
fish is exposed to intensive heat, dust, dirt and flies. Once fish reaches
its inland destinations, it has lost much of its high nutritional value.
H. Use of Ice
2.17      After motorization of most of the country's fishing vessels, the
use of ice as a means of fish conservation is the only major change in an
otherwise century old fishing technology. Taking ice on fishing vessels and
on fish transport vehicles has started only recently and still is a rather
sporadic feature in YAR's fisheries. However the demand for ice by fishermen
and fish merchants seems to increase rapidly. This development is stimulated
by a keen competition among ice producers who operate ice making facilities in
Hodeidah, Khawbah, Hoda, Zabid and Taiz. The joint capacity of these ice
plants is 340 tons/day with individual capacities ranging from 20.5 tons/day
to 150 tons/day. A new plant with a designed capacity of 60 tons/day is
nearing completion in Hodeidah. Ice in blocks ranging from 25 to 125 kg is
available at all major fish landing sites at prices ranging from YRls 240 to
400/ton. Prices for ice have recently started to decline as a result of
unused capacities. No additional ice making facilities are foreseen under the
project with the exception of Khawbah where, because of logistical problems,
ice supply is limited and irregular.
I. Fish Exports and Imports
2.18      Although there is evidence that substantial amounts of fish caught
by Yemeni fishermen in YAR waters are exported by sea and even by land to
neighboring Saudi Arabia, no data or information are available which would
allow at least an approximation of the quantities crossing the border.
2.19       For a country with a relatively rich and underexploited fish
resource, YAR's import bill for fish is substantial. Fish imports have
increased from 200 tons in 1972 to 3,800 tons in 1977. In 1979, YAR has
imported fish to a value of YRls 28.0 million. Almost the entire fish import
is in the form of canned fish. Recently, shipments of frozen fish have been
brought into the country from the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.
J. Jizan in Saudi Arabia
2.20       Jizan, a fishing village located about 50 km inside Saudi Arabia
north of YAR's border, exerts strong influences on YAR's fisheries sector.
Higher fish prices, better supplies of ice, marine engines, spare parts and



-9-
all sorts of fishing gear and lower prices for diesel and lubricants make
Jizan a highly attractive fish landing place for YAR fishermen. No reliable
information exist as to the quantities of the catches landed there by YAR
fishermen. However, there is every indication that a substantial part of
YAR's fishing fleet concentrates its fishing efforts towards this market.
Jizan, as an important external factor, has been fully integrated into the
project's development concept which is designed to counter balance Jizan's
strong influence on the YAR fishermen and offer them better opportunities
within the country.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project proposes to invest in two distinct areas, along the
country's 600 km of mainland coastline and at inland consumption centers along
the Sanaa-Taiz road. The proposed locations for project investments have been
strategically selected so they will serve either a number of neighboring
fishing villages on the coast or substantial populated areas in the case of
inland fish markets. As a national fisheries development effort, the project's
investments will be spread over relatively large areas of YAR, benefitting
major parts of its population either directly or indirectly.
3.02      The project's main investment will be undertaken in Hodeidah, the
country's main fisheries center where 40% of the national catch is landed.
The proposed fishing port will be located 250 km from the Saudi Arabian border
in the north and 350 km from the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen border
in the south. This relatively centralized location will offer adequate
access to fishing vessels migrating to Hodeidah from the north and south
seeking shelter against strong monsoon winds or wishing to utilize the port's
bunkering, marketing and vessel repair facilities.
3.03      On the coast north of Hodeidah a fish landing pier with related
shore facilities, including shrimp processing will be established at Khawbah,
the most important fishing village on the northern coast. Khawbah, a fishing
village entirely surrounded by desert, has the second largest fishermen
community in the country. Present land access is extremely difficult over
coastal desert tracks crossing extensive stretches of Sabkha-tidal saline
marshes-which often become impassable, requiring long detours through the
desert causing prohibitive transportation costs. The lack of ready access to
the country's main consumption centers has prevented the Khawbah fishermen
from fully exploiting their productive potential, has prompted them to land
substantial amounts of their catches in Saudi Arabia and has caused a number
of them to leave the village in search for employment in neighboring oil rich
countries. A 32 km road proposed under the project will link Khawbah with the
Jizan-Hodeidah road, presently under construction. This road link will break
Khawbah's commercial isolation as it will provide it with access to the
country's major fish markets. A substantial increase in fish landings can
be expected in Khawbah as fishing vessels from neighboring villages like
Luhayyah and Midi in the north and Ibn Abbas, Salif and from Kamran Island in
the south will be attracted by the proposed integrated landing and marketing



- 10 -
facilities. Khawbah can well become a real alternative to the presently
much preferred Jizan in Saudi Arabia, once the integrated facilities are
installed.
3.04       South of Hodeidah, two locations have been selected for project
investments, namely Khawkhah and Mocha. Khawkhah is located 155 km south
of Hodeidah and has the largest fishermen community on the country's southern
coast. Its location on an entirely unprotected straight coastline that
is fully exposed to the open sea does not justify major marine facilities
as construction costs would be prohibitive. Mocha, the country's formerly
famous coffee export harbor, will be the location of a second fish marketing
center in the south.
3.05      As operating basis for the project's fish marketing development
strategy, four main consumption centers in the country's interior will be
selected for investments. As fish marketing in the Tihama and along the coast
is relatively well developed, no investments in marketing facilities are
recommended there. Sanaa, Taiz, Ibb and Dhamar, located along the interior's
main highway are regional marketing centers serving large hinterlands. It
will mainly be from these centralized locations that the project will concen-
trate its efforts to stimulate and expand fish consumption in YAR.
3.06      As a result of the project, the geographic center of YAR's fishing
industry will shift from Hodeidah northward. Project investment at Khawbah,
supported by the proposed road connection with the Jizan-Hodeidah road, will
lead to an increase in that area's share of national fish landings from 25%
to almost 40%, while Hodeidah's share will decline from 40% to 32%. Although
the fishing industry in Hodeidah is not anticipated to retain its relative
dominance, it will experience an absolute growth of 35% over its present
catch volume. From a regional development point of view, this project-induced
relocation of the country's geographic fisheries center into the economically
depressed northern region will be of great benefit. Hodeidah, as the coun-
try's main service center, has more varied economic opportunities than the
north where fish is the only alternative to marginal agriculture.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale, Objectives and Concept
4.01       YAR's national fish resources hold the potential to considerably
reduce the country's increasing dependence on foreign supplied animal pro-
tein for its growing population. More efficient exploitation and distri-
bution of its readily available fish resources can free large amounts of
foreign exchange funds that urgently would be needed for capital formation
in the country but instead are being spent abroad for the importation of
livestock products and to an increasing extent for the importation of fish.
Existing catch capacities and distribution facilities limit the level of fish



- 11 -
production which is insufficient to meet present demand. The proposed
project will enable the country to make better use of its valuable but
underexploited fish resources.
4.02      The project will also provide the capabilities for the exploita-
tion of the country's shrimp resources. Initially shrimp will be supplied
to the domestic market where a certain demand exists as the Continental
Sea Foods study has confirmed. Ultimately, shrimp will however be produced
primarily for export. In neighboring oil rich countries excellent markets
exist for shrimp.
4.03      For YAR, which is poorly endowed with exportable commodities, to
reduce dependence on imported food is of vital importance and has been
assigned highest priority by the Government particularly so as the future
demand for its labor force in neighboring oil rich countries is uncertain.
Demand for mainly unskilled labor in these countries seems to have peaked as
their infrastructure development programs stabilize and competition from other
labor exporting countries like India, Pakistan and South Korea is steadily
increasing. The proposed project will directly support the country's drive
for reduced reliance on imported food as it will increase food production
from a domestic resource base.
4.04      Although the project's activities will be closely integrated, three
major sub-objectives can be distinguished. First, the project will strengthen
the sector's productive base.  Improved fishing vessels of higher productivity
will increase the fleet's catch capacity. Marine facilities at Hodeidah will
provide large numbers of fishing vessels shelter and safe mooring during the
periods of strong monsoon winds, presently the greatest danger to the country's
small fishing vessels. Adequate, shore-based repair, maintenance and supply
facilities will increase the fleet's operational time at sea. Second, the
project will improve the quality and increase the delivery capacity of the
present market distribution system. The objective of the system will be to
regulate the flow and extend the consumption of fish into areas which presently
are not or only irregularly reached by the existing fish distribution system.
Third, the project will begin the exploitation of the country's valuable
shrimp resources.
4.05      The project will be based primarily on the existing system of
artisanal fisheries. The organizational concept will be, to rely to the
extent possible on the sector's existing productive forces with a minimum
requirement for scarce and already overextended public sector resources and
foreign technical assistance. The new equipment and technology to be intro-
duced under the project will be designed so that they can be easily adopted
and directly utilized by the traditional fishermen. In the context of YAR,
the safest way to assure the efficient utilization of project-provided
facilities will be to make use of the energetic private sector. All those
facilities that are of commercial interest, like fish and shrimp processing,
will therefore be made available under adequate arrangements for the use by
Yemeni businesses. In instances where fisheries related cooperative societies
develop into viable business enterprises, they also will be encouraged to get
involved in the operation of these facilities.



- 12 -
B. Detailed Features
4.06      The project's objectives will be achieved by providing the facili-
ties listed below and by implementing the proposed organizational measures.
(a)  An artisanal fishing port at Hodeidah with facilities for
fish handling, marketing and storage and a small boatyard.
(b)  An artisanal landing pier at Khawbah with facilities ashore
for fish and shrimp receiving, processing and storage.
(c)  Shore based fish handling, marketing and storage facilities
along the remainder of the coast.
(d)  Inland fish distribution and marketing facilities.
(e)  Credit facilities for sambuk trawlers, fishing vessels and
transport vehicles.
(f)  A coastal road link.
(g)  Technical assistance and training.
Artisanal Fishing Port at Hodeidah
4.07      At Hodeidah, an artisanal fishing port will be constructed to
provide a sheltered anchorage for sambuks, a berth at which the vessels
may unload their catch and obtain supplies of ice, water and fuel together
with facilities for fish handling and storage as well as a small boatyard
and related facilities ashore. The site for the new port adjoins the existing
fishing market and village, where presently sambuks are moored and the catch
is laboriously hand carried ashore.
4.08      Rock rubble breakwaters armoured with selected rock or concrete units
will be constructed to ensure protection from the waves, largely from the
south and southeast, which presently restrict fishing activities especially
during the months of October through March. The breakwaters will provide a
sheltered entrance with a minimum depth of about 2.5 m below datum. A berth
will be constructed in the lee of the main breakwater, approximately 140 m
long, with depths of about 2.0 to 2.5 m below mean water level which is
suitable for sambuks including the improved sambuks to be provided under the
project. The existing beach between the two breakwater arms of the port will
be reclaimed and enlarged using nearby dredged material in order to create an
area adjoining the existing roadway where the fish handling building, the
service building and the boatyard will be located. Trucks taking the fish
for inland distribution will park in this area. A layout of the proposed
port is shown on Map IBRD 14788.



- 13 -
4.09      A review of several alternative sites was conducted in the vicinity
of Hodeidah in an attempt to find one with better natural shelter from the
sea but all of these sites were found to be unsuitable for various reasons
such as the distance from the presently established fishing community and
the risk of interference with commercial operations at the Port of Hodeidah.
4.10      The fish catch from sambuks will be landed at the berths and imme-
diately taken by carts to the fish auction and processing buildings ashore.
Small houris will unload their catch directly on to the reclaimed area. The
berth is suitable for handling the catch from about 90 sambuks and is also of
sufficient length to enable vessels to move to the service area to obtain ice,
water and fuel. The port layout provides for the possible construction at a
future date of additional berths alongside the breakwater and within the port.
Rock suitable for breakwater construction and for other building work is
available from quarries about 50 km from Hodeidah. Sand will be obtainable
locally while steel piling and other materials would be imported. Government
acquisition of the land for the Hodeidah fishing port and related shore
facilities will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Artisanal Fish Landing Pier at Khawbah
4.11      At Khawbah, a pier will be constructed for the landing, handling
and processing of both fish and shrimp, as well as a service building and
a boat shed. Khawbah, which is at present the second most important site
for fishing activities, lies within the shelter of Kamran islands and conse-
quently expensive breakwater protection is not as essential. The pier would
enable the catch to be unloaded efficiently during almost all seasons and
will greatly improve the present method of hand loading and unloading from
moored sambuks. The catch will be immediately brought ashore to the fish and
shrimp handling facilities.
4.12      The pier will extend to a depth of about 3 m and offer berthing
space of about 45 m on each side of the pierhead in depths from about 2.5
to 3.25 m below mean water level for the operation of about 70 sambuks. It
will be constructed of steel piling and will be equipped with a shelter to
provide protection during the unloading of catch and when taking aboard
supplies of ice. A light duty access trestle will link the berthing area with
the shore. The catch will be distributed inland by truck. Government acquisi-
tion of the land for the Khawbah fish landing pier and related shore facilities
will be a condition of credit effectiveness. A layout of the proposed fish
landing pier is shown in Map IBRD 14751.
Shore Facilities at Khawkhah and Mocha
4.13      At Khawkhah and Mocha, the two most important fishing centers south
of Hodeidah, shore-based facilities will be established. Each will be fur-
nished with a handling and auction hall; chill storage for fish and ice;
facilities for gutting, cleaning, washing and icing of fish; a water supply
and waste disposal system; and electric power generation. These facilities
will be designed to handle about 1,700 tons of fish at Khawkhah and about
1,550 tons at Mocha per year at full development. Fish from Khawkhah will



- 14 -
mostly be channelled into the market centers of the Tihama while Mocha will
be the principal source of fish for the markets in Taiz, Ibb and Dhamar.
Government acquisition of land for the shore facilities at Khawkhah and
Mocha will be conditions of credit effectiveness.
Inland Fish Markets
4.14      Fish Market at Sanaa.  At Sanaa, a central fish market will be
established which will consist of a wholesale area and 12 retail stalls
each equipped with a deep freezer cabinet, weighing scale, chopping block
and display tables. The market will have an adequate flake ice plant, ice
bin and a chill room for overnight storage of fish and ice. The necessary
supplies of water and electricity will be provided as well as proper waste
removal and sanitary facilities. Acquisition of land by the Sanaa Municipal-
ity for the proposed fish market will be a condition of disbursement.
4.15      Fish Market at Taiz.  At Taiz, a wholesale market will be estab-
lished at the site of the present combined wholesale and retail market. The
new wholesale market will be provided with a chill room for overnight storage
of fish and an improved water supply system. Further, the approach to the
market will be improved. About ten retail fish stalls will be established
alongside the meat markets which are planned by the Taiz municipality at
different locations throughout the city. Each individual fish retail stall
will be equipped in a similar fashion to the outlets proposed for Sanaa.
Acquisition of land by the Taiz Municipality for the proposed fish markets
will be a condition of disbursement.
4.16      Fish Markets at Ibb and Dhamar.  Simple market structures will
be provided in these two communities located along the Taiz-Sanaa road. The
markets will have about three individual retail stalls properly equipped
for fish marketing and a small wholesale area. The acquisition of land by
the Municipalities of Ibb and Dhamar for the proposed fish markets will be a
condition of disbursement.
Credit Facilities for Sambuk Trawlers, Fishing Vessels, Outboard Engines,
Fishing Gear and Fish Transport Vehicles
4.17      Credit facilities for fishing vessels, shrimp trawlers and vehicles
for fish transport will be made available through the Agricultural Credit
Bank (ACB).
4.18      Sambuk Trawlers.  The project will finance thirty fully equipped
15 m wooden hull shrimp trawlers of a design based on the standard traditional
Yemeni Sambuk. Modifications like a wide transom stern and a stronger engine
base to accommodate a 60 hp water cooled engine will provide the vessel
with proper trawling capabilities. The vessel will be equipped with a full
deck with a hatch to a shrimp hold. The vessel will have a crew of 7 to
8 and is intended primarily for one day fishing trips. A drawing of the
proposed shrimp trawler is shown in Chart 21383.



- 15 -
4.19       Improved Fishing Vessels.  The catch capacity of the traditional
fleet will be increased through financing 60 fully equipped sambuks of an
improved type. The structure and design of the standard sambuk will be
modified to properly equip the vessel for gill netting. The improved sambuk
will have a stronger wooden hull to accommodate a 45 hp air cooled engine
and a net hauler. Fish will be collected in an insulated fish box of 6 m3
capacity. A drawing of the improved sambuk is shown in Chart 21384.
4.20      Houris.  In areas where marine conditions presently allow only
houri fishing, the project will finance 30 of these small canoe-type tradi-
tional fishing crafts. The vessel will be powered by a 15 hp outboard engine
mounted on a stern transom. The relatively small unit of investment will
also allow some very low income and new fishermen to become vessel owners.
4.21      Fishing Gear and Marine Engines.  To alleviate the present shortage
of proper fishing gear and marine engines, financing will be made available
for netting of different mesh sizes, long lines and hooks, handlines and
hooks of varying size, floats, swivels, ropes, twines, etc. as well as about
100 outboard engines ranging from 9 to 15 hp.
Fish Transport Vechicles
4.22      To facilitate the transport of increased quantities of fish of
substantially improved quality to inland market centers, the project will
provide six insulated and three refrigerated trucks with capacities varying
from 1.5 to 3 tons.
Road Link Between Khawbah and New Jizan-Hodeidah Road
4.23      The project will provide a 32 km road link between Khawbah and the
new all-weather road presently being constructed between Jizan in Saudi
Arabia and Hodeidah. Once this new main road is completed, the transport
pattern in the northern Tihama is bound to change. Without a proper con-
necting road, however, Khawbah and its neighboring coastal villages will only
marginally benefit from the new north-south road. The proposed gravel road
will establish the link between Khawbah, the most important fishing center in
the north, and the country's main consumption centers.
Technical Assistance and Training
4.24      Technical assistance will be provided during two phases of the
project:  before and during implementation.
4.25      Technical Assistance Before Project Implementation.  A firm of
engineering consultants will be appointed to prepare detailed designs for
the project's civil works facilities, to prepare tender documents and to
assist the Government to evaluate the bids received and to award contracts.
To initiate and organize the building of the newly designed sambuk trawlers
well ahead of the shrimp processing facilties becoming operational, a naval
architect will be appointed who will supervise the construction of two of the
newly designed sambuk trawlers for which local funds are available in the



- 16 -
Ministry of Agriculture's regular budget. The construction of two prototype
trawler sambuks and their demonstration at sea will be a condition of disburse-
ment. Once the suitability of the proposed sambuk trawler for shrimping in
the Red Sea has been fully established, construction of these vessels can
then begin right at the inception of the project and commercial shrimp
trawling, one of the project's economically and financially most important
components, can get underway without delay. Expenses incurred for the
preparation of detailed designs for the project's civil works and for hiring
the naval architect, will be eligible for retroactive financing, provided
such costs were not incurred prior to March 1, 1980.
4.26      Technical Assistance During Project Implementation.  To implement
the project, a well qualified, internationally recruited fisheries specialist,
acceptable to the Association, with experience in management of fishing ports
and shore facilities will be engaged as project manager for a period of five
years. Together with the other internationally recruited experts and local
support staff, the project manager will be responsible for coordinating all
project activities, in particular, the construction of the marine and shore
facilities, procurement of vessels, engines, fishing gear and fish transport
vehicles.
4.27      A firm of consulting engineers will be appointed to assign two
resident engineers to supervise the construction of all civil works, instal-
lation, commissioning and start up of equipment and machinery carried out by
contractors at various construction sites. These engineers will be respon-
sible to ensure quality of construction, machinery and equipment, adherence
to designs and recommend payments to contractors.
4.28      During the early phase of project implementation, a boat builder
with experience in small boat construction under operational conditions
similar to those in YAR will be appointed for a period of three years.
He will establish and equip a demonstration boatyard where he will organize
and supervise the construction of a number of all three types of project
vessels with locally employed carpenters and boat builders.  He will train
the local craftsmen in the use of power tools and other more advanced boat-
building equipment. Once the initial batches of project vessels are avail-
able for demonstration, the boat builder will prepare tender documents for
local competitive bidding for vessel hulls and coordinate the procurement
and installation of engines and other equipment. During appraisal at least
two major local entrepreneurs have expressed interest in building larger
numbers of project fishing vessels. These entrepreneurs as well as experi-
enced individual boat builders will be eligible to bid for the construction of
vessels. The proposed 30 sambuk trawlers, 60 improved fishing vessels and 30
houris will be in addition to the normal boat building activities in YAR.
This will call for an increase in the country's boat building capacity. Based
on the strong interest expressed by the private sector in this component no
major implementation problems are foreseen for the project's boat building
program. Once contracts are signed with local companies for the construction
of project vessels, the boat builder will supervise construction to ensure
that construction conforms to design and contract specifications.



- 17 -
4.29       A master fisherman will be provided for a period of three years.
He will assist the project manager in the procurement of fishing gear,
train local fishermen in rigging of nets and trawling gear. He will train
fishermen in new and more productive fishing techniques as well as in better
handling and preserving of the catch.
4.30       One of the project's key objectives is the exploitation of the
country's shrimp resources. Bottom trawling, the technique employed in
coastal shrimping, is almost unknown in YAR. Although the vessel to be used
for shrimping will not be new to Yemeni fishermen, demonstration and training
in bottom trawling will be needed. The most suitable way of introducing the
Yemeni fishermen to this new fishing technology will be to bring a crew of
about six experienced fishermen to YAR for about one year from a developing
country like India or Pakistan which have long established traditions of
small boat bottom trawling. The foreign fishermen will spend the necessary
training period among the Yemeni crews and demonstrate to them every aspect of
successful trawling for shrimp on several project trawlers.
4.31      The success of the project will depend to a large degree on the
development of an expanded domestic fish marketing system which will be
expected to absorb a doubling of present fish supplies. This will require
a systematic intensification and expansion of the existing fish marketing
pattern in YAR. To assist in such a major market expansion, the project will
provide the service of an experienced fish marketing expert for a period of
four years. He will advise in establishing new wholesale and retail markets
as well as the improvement of existing facilities. He will also advise in
the operation and maintenane of auction halls, markets and processing facili-
ties. His advice in improved techniques in handling, storing, transporting
and distributing of fish will also be available to private fish merchants.
He will assist the GCDFR and the municipalities in preparing and implementing
a code of hygienic standards and practices to be followed in these operations.
4.32       Institutional credit for shrimp trawlers, fishing vessels, refriger-
ated and insulated fish trucks, marine engines and fishing gear will be a
new feature in the fisheries sector of YAR. The ACB, the institution proposed
to handle the project's on-lending operations, so far has only limited exper-
ience in the field of lending to the fisheries sector mainly in the field of
vessel repair. To develop ACB's capability for large scale lending to the
fisheries sector, the project will provide a credit advisor with experience
in lending to fisheries for a period of three years. The credit advisor will
develop a lending policy for this sector, he will develop procedures and
provide training to his Yemeni counterpart staff in the appraisal of loan
applications for investments.
4.33      Training.  One of the factors that will most critically affect the
success of the project will be the availability of technically qualified
personnel to administer, operate and maintain the various project operations.
As the private sector has much larger resources in the required fields of
expertise than the public sector has or can acquire in the foreseeable future,
the project is designed in a way that will allow all commercially exploit-
able operations to be undertaken by the private sector. It will be the



- 18 -
responsibility of those who become engaged to make the proper staffing arrange-
ments. The private sector of YAR has demonstrated convincingly that it can
recruit the expertise required to meet their commercial objectives. Irrespec-
tive of the private sector's engagement in the project, a number of Yemenis
will need to be recruited to handle those aspects of the project that lie
outside the scope of private sector interests. It will most likely be this
small group of project recruits from which the country's future government
managers and administrators of the fisheries sector will be recruited.
Special training arrangements will therefore be made under the project for
those Yemenis who will be assigned to the DOF and the GCDFR. The project
manager will develop a training program for Yemeni staff members that will
include specialized on-the-job training as well as overseas assignments
to commercial fisheries operations and formal training institutes. Each of
the internationally recruited experts will, as part of their terms of reference,
be engaged in training activities. Besides on-the-job training of their local
counterparts, this engagement will include wherever feasible active training
support to the Fisheries Training Center at Hodeidah.
4.34      Special training arrangements have been made for the Yemeni fisher-
men who will participate in the project, utilizing more productive fishing
vessels, particularly those who will engage in bottom trawling, using the
newly introduced sambuk trawlers. A crew of six experienced fishermen from a
developing country will be recruited and assigned under the direction of a
master fisherman to the sambuk trawlers instructing their fellow Yemeni
fishermen in this new technique.
Establishment of the General Corporation for the Development of Fish Resources
4.35      The project will provide US$100,000 for GCDFR's initial set of
furnishings and equipment.
State of Engineering
4.36      The Danish consulting firm, Hostrup-Schultz and Sorensen, has
prepared the feasibility study for the Hodeidah and Khawbah marine and shore
facilities including preliminary designs and bills of quantities on the
basis of which the costs for these project components have been calculated.
To allow project implementation to begin shortly after credit effectiveness,
additional soil investigation, detailed designs and the necessary tender
documents are presently being prepared. The costs incurred for these consul-
tant services of US$400,000 will be eligible for retroactive financing,
provided such cost were not incurred prior to March 1, 1980.
4.36      The following table provides a breakdown of the technical assistance
provided under the project:



- 19 -
Table 4.1: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDED UNDER THE PROJECT
Assignment in Project Years       Duration
Project Phase                          Beginning              Ending    man-months
Before Project Implementation
Firm of Consulting Engineers
(Preparation of Detailed Designs)          0                    0            23
Naval Architect                              0                   0             3
During Project Implementation
Project Manager                              1                   5            60
Firm of Consulting Engineers
(Construction Supervision two
engineers)                                  1                   4            96
Boat Builder                                 2                   4            36
Master Fisherman                             2                   4            36
Crew of Fisherman                            3                   4            72
Fish Marketing Advisor                       2                   5            48
Credit Advisor                               3                   5            36
Total Technical Assistance
Provided Under Project                                                       410
C. Cost Estimates
4.38      Total project cost is estimated at YRls 136.4 million (US$30.3
million equivalent) including contingencies.  The foreign exchange component
is YRls 94.5 million (US$21.0 million equivalent) or 69% of total project
cost. Annex 2 shows details of the cost estimate and a summary is given
in Table 4.2.



- 20 -
Table 4.2: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
Foreign
Exchange
Project                  Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    % of
Component                -----YRls ismlion----   -----UST milion-----    Total
Hodeidah Fishing Port
and Khawbah Fish
Landing Pier            9.53    32.23   41.75   2.12    7.16         9.28       77
Khawkhah and Mocha
Shore Facilities        0.15      1.31    1.46   0.03    0.29        0.32       90
Inland Fish Market
Facilities              0.55      2.18    2.73   0.12    0.49        0.61       80
Sambuk Trawlers and
Fishing Vessels         5.90    14.98   20.88   1.31    3.33         4.64       72
Fish Transport Vehi-
cles                    0.05      0.92    0.97   0.01    0.20        0.21       95
Khawbah Roadlink         1.35      3.15    4.50   0.30    0.70        1.00       70
Technical Assistance
and Training            0.45    11.45   11.90   0.10    2.54         2.64       96
Base Cost         17.98    66.21   84.19   3.99   14.71    18.71           78
Contingencies
Physical               2.06      7.52    9.58   0.46    1.67        2.13       78
Price                 21.83    20.79   42.62   4.85    4.62         9.47      48
Subtotal           23.89    28.31   52.20   5.31    6.29    11.60           54
Total              41.87    94.50  136.35   9.30   21.00    30.30           69
4.39      The cost of the marine and associated shore facilities at Hodeidah
and Khawbah is estimated at approximately YRls 64.4 million (US$15.2 million
equivalent). Estimates are based on those prepared in 1979 by consultants
Hostrup-Schultz and Sorensen (Denmark) with revisions by the mission.
Physical contingencies of 20% have been applied to the marine works and 15%
to other components.  Price contingencies for these project components amount
to approximately 43%. The cost estimates were based on the consultant's
preliminary engineering designs which were undertaken after initial soil
investigations and study of sea conditions at a number of possible sites for
fishing development. Additional soil investigations and wave propagation
analyses are required at the sites now selected, namely Hodeidah and Khawbah,
to corroborate the layout of marine works. Detailed engineering design and
the preparation of tender documents are to be undertaken by the consultants
in accordance with terms of reference prepared by the Association.



- 21 -
4.40      An average price contingency of 50% has been allowed for the entire
project cost based on an annual rate of domestic inflation in YAR of 30%
during 1980, 27% during 1981, 22% during 1982 and 20% thereafter and on
international rates of 10.5% during 1980, 9% during 1981, 8% during 1982
and 7% thereafter.
4.41       Since the YAR Government exempts import components of development
projects from import taxes, the cost estimates exclude such taxes.
4.42       Total cost of the project's technical assistance component has been
estimated at US$2.35 million excluding price contingencies. US$1.28 million
will be required for individual consultants services, US$400,000 for prepara-
tion of detailed designs including soil investigation and US$0.9 million for
construction supervision. Five experts with assignments ranging from three
months to five years will spend a total of 219 man-months in the project at a
man-month cost of US$5,350, including all direct personnel and company over-
head costs, reimbursable items like overseas travel, subsistence and other
allowances. In addition, six fishermen from a developing country will spend a
total of 72 man-months in the project at a man-month cost of US$1,500. The
contracts for the preparation of detailed designs and construction supervision
will be negotiated on the basis of estimated inputs of personnel.
D. Financing Plan
4.43       Financing for the project will be arranged in the following way:
an IDA credit of US$17.0 million, a US$4.0 million parallel loan from the
Government of Denmark, a contribution of US$1.3 million equivalent by par-
ticipating fishermen and a contribution of US$8.0 million equivalent by the
Government of YAR.
4.44      The IDA credit which will be made on standard terms will finance
56% of total project cost or 81% of foreign exchange cost. The parallel
loan which will be made on conditions similar to those of the IDA credit
will finance the balance of the foreign exchange cost. The fishermen con-
tribution will represent 20% of the total value of the fishing vessels and
related equipment to be provided under the project, the remainder of which
will be credit financed. The Government's contribution will finance 27%
of total project cost, all of which would be in local currency.
4.45       Condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit will be the signing
of a co-financing agreement with another external financier for the balance
of the foreign exchange component.
E. Procurement
4.46      Under the proposed IDA credit, procurement will be as follows:
Construction of the Hodeidah fishing port and the Khawbah fishing landing pier



- 22 -
(US$15.6 million) will be subject to international competitive bidding.
Construction of the shore facilities at Khawkhah and Mocha, as well as the
inland fish markets at Sanaa, Taiz, Ibb and Dhamar, (US$1.3 million) will
be subject to local bidding as no international contractor is likely to be
interested in building these widely scattered small and simple structures.
The local bidding procedure is well established and has been found acceptable
to the Association. Under this procedure bidding documents are not only
reviewed by the project authorities but also by the procurement committee with-
in the MOA and any contract to be awarded in excess of YRls 300,000 (US$67,000)
is subject to the approval of the interministerial Supreme Committee for
Tendering and Procurement. Construction of the Khawbah road link (US$1.7
million) will be carried out by the HA under force account, as no international
contractor is expected to bid for this low cost, low grade road that is to be
built in a very remote area of the country. The wooden hulls of the fishing
vessels (US$2.1 million) will be built on the basis of local bidding through
PIU. Consultants (US$1.0 million) who will be recruited internationally have
to be acceptable to the Association. A contract to carry out additional soil
investigations and to prepare detailed designs and tender documents has been
awarded to consulting engineers Hostrup-Schultz and Sorensen of Denmark who
had prepared the preliminary designs. The cost of this contract up to US$0.4
million will be eligible for retroactive financing. A contract for construc-
tion supervision (US$0.9 million) will be awarded to consulting engineers
acceptable to the Association. Goods and services required for the establish-
ment of GCDFR (US$100,000) will be procured locally following local procurement
procedures. All project equipment, marine engines and fish transport vehicles
(US$4.0 million) will be procured on a parallel basis following DANIDA's
procurement guidelines. Local goods and services (US$8.0 million) will be
procured in accordance with the Government's procurement procedures which are
acceptable to the Association.
F. Disbursement
4.47      Disbursement under the proposed credit will cover 81% of the
foreign exchange cost of the project. The cost of engineering services
for the preparation of detailed designs and tender documents and the evalua-
tion of bids for the Hodeidah fishing port and the Khawbah fish landing pier
of approximately US$400,000 would be payable retroactively, as these services
will need to be carried out before credit signing in order to avoid any
delay in awarding the contract.  Another US$30,000 for services of a naval
architect for preparing and supervising the construction of two prototypes
of the newly designed wooden shrimp trawlers will be payable retroactively.
The entire IDA credit is expected to be disbursed over five years.  The esti-
mated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 3 and is summarized hereunder:
Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY                     1981     1982      1983      1984     1985
--------------US$ million---------------
Annual                     2.20     4.70      6.50      3.00     0.60
Cumulative                 2.20     6.90    13.40    16.40    17.00



- 23 -
G. Environment
4.48      Development of the fishing port at Hodeidah and the fish landing
pier at Khawbah do not interfere with any known plans for the respective
areas. Land based collection and disposal systems for fish heads, guts,
etc. would be provided at the landing sites and near the fish markets.
Associated with trawling operations will be the discarding of trash fish
into the fishing grounds which can lead to minor increase in the shark
populations in the area. No major problems caused by excessive dumping of
trash fish and other waste are however foreseen, as the shrimp operation is
based on the use of a relatively small number of artisanal crafts. The
project will therefore be expected only to have insignificant effects on the
coastal fishing grounds. Increasing pollution of the fishing grounds can be
caused by commercial freighters anchoring off the coast of Hodeidah and
dumping oil wastes into the sea. Signs of oil pollution have been evidenced
by shrimp caught in these waters that were contaminated with oil. The Govern-
ment will be requested to take adequate steps to monitor and control excessive
oil pollution off the coast of Hodeidah.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization During Implementation
5.01      The project will be implemented over a period of five years. 1/  The
newly established GCDFR with headquarters in Hodeidah will be responsible for
all fisheries development activities in the country and as such will be the
executing agency for the project. 2/ Within GCDFR a special Project Imple-
mentation Unit (PIU) will be set up from which all project implementation
activities will be directed. Head of the PIU will be an internationally
recruited project manager with qualifications and experiences as described in
para. 4.26. During project implementation, the project manager will also act
as GCDFR's general manager (chief executive officer). As such he will be
directly responsible to GCDFR's Chairman who in turn reports directly to the
Minister of Agriculture. The PIU will have an administrative support staff,
including an experienced accountant. US$100,000 has been included in the
project to finance GCDFR's initial set of equipment and furnishings. During
negotiations an assurance was obtained that the PIU staffed and equipped as
described above will be established not later than September 30, 1980. The
DOF will continue to serve in a policy making and advisory capacity; it will
not carry out operational function.
1/   An implementation schedule is shown in Chart IBRD 21354.
2/   An organization chart for the project is shown in Chart IBRD 21585.



- 24 -
5.02      The PlU's responsibilities will include coordination between various
government departments, construction companies, consultants, etc.; it will
supervise the various construction components of the project including inland
fish markets; it will initiate and supervise the construction of fishing
vessels, procure marine engines, fishing gear, fish transport and fish market-
ing equipment as well as other machinery and supplies.
5.03      The project manager, in addition  to his local technical support
staff will be assisted by an engineering consulting firm in construction
supervision, an internationally recruited boat builder, a master fisherman
together with a crew of six fishermen experienced in small vessel shrimp
trawling, and a fish marketing expert. Qualified local technical staff
supporting the master fisherman and the fish marketing expert will be
appointed. The consulting firm will assign two resident engineers to the
project who will directly supervise all construction work to be carrried out
under the project. The boat builder will establish and operate the demonstra-
tion boatyard where local boat builders will be trained in more advanced boat
building technology and will be familiarized with the construction of the
newly designed project shrimp trawlers and fishing vessels. Once the con-
struction of project vessels has been contracted to local entrepreneurs he
will supervise the actual construction of those vessels. The master fisherman
will deploy the six fishermen on project vessels so they can demonstrate
efficient trawling to the Yemeni fishermen. He will establish the cooperation
of the fishermen in the project by advising and assisting them in all related
project activities. In addition, he will be responsible for the procurement
of fishing gear to be provided under the project. The fish marketing expert
will be responsible for designing and implementing an efficient fish delivery
system with particular attention to the supply of fish to inland consumption
centers. During negotiations assurances were obtained that an engineering
consulting firm for construction supervision, a boat builder, a master fisher-
man with a crew of six fishermen and a fish marketing expert will be appointed.
It was further assured that local technical support staff for the master
fisherman and the fish marketing expert will be appointed.
B. Organization and Management of Project Operations
5.04      The organizing principle of project operations is determined by
YAR's weak public sector administration and management on the one hand and
the vigorous and enterprising private sector on the other hand. Although
the project financed facilities and installations will be owned by the public
sector, i.e. GCDFR, their commercial use will be offered on a competitive
basis to private commercial interests actively engaged in the fisheries sector.
Contract awards for the utilization of facilities like shrimp and fish pro-
cessing, bunkering, production and storage of ice and boat building will be
made to the highest bidder taking into consideration experience and business
reputation. With revenues received from the lease of these facilities, the
GCDFR will finance the operation and maintenance of those facilities for
which no private sector interest exists, like the fishing port facilities
in Hodeidah and the fish landing pier at Khawbah. Its establishment law



- 25 -
assures the GCDFR that possible deficits from its operations will be covered
by budgetary allocations from the MOA. The proposed arrangement of public
sector investments being commercially utilized by the private sector is
successfully practiced in YAR. All internationally recruited project staff
will lend their advice to the establishment of GCDFR's operations. A pro-
jected income statement for the GCDFR is contained in the project file.
The Ministry of Municipalities
5.05      The Ministry of Municipalities (MOM) will have the overall respon-
sibility for the establishment of the inland fish markets proposed for Sanaa,
Taiz, Ibb and Dhamar. Actual execution of the works, as well as operation and
maintenance of the proposed fish markets will however rest with the respec-
tive local municipalities which, because of their local authority, will be in
a much stronger position than the GCDFR to supervise and enforce the hygienic
and quality standards set for the marketing of fish. The municipalities'
acknowledged legal authority also will facilitate the collection of rents and
service charges from the fish merchants utilizing the market facilities. The
municipalities would appoint inspectors who will maintain strict supervision
over the quality of fish sold and the maintenance of hygienic standards set
for these markets.
The Highway Authority
5.06      The Highway Authority (HA) is an autonomous Government organization
with its own capital (mainly road equipment) and controlled by a Council of
ex-officio Government Directors, with the Ministry of Public Works acting as
chairman. The HA is responsible for the design, construction and maintenance
of public roads in rural areas. Under contract with the MOA, the HA will
undertake to design, construct and subsequently maintain the proposed 32 km
road link between Khawbah and the new Jizan-Hodeidah road. An assurance to
that effect has been obtained during negotiations.
The Agricultural Credit Bank
5.07      The Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) is a well-established specialized
lending institution which is the onlending channel for all five IDA-financed
agricultural development projects. ACB was founded in 1975 with an authorized
capital of YRls 100.0 million. ACB's main fields of operation are short-term
loans for recurrent agricultural production requirements and medium-term loans
for well development, land reclamation, livestock and agricultural machinery.
ACB is governed by a Board of Directors consisting of the Deputy Minister of
the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance and the
Central Planning Organization, the Deputy Chairman of the Central Bank, the
General Secretary of the Confederation of Yemeni Development Associations, and
the President of ACB as Chairman of the Board. ACB operates eight branches
aside from its Sanaa head office. The total volume of lending during 1978/79
reached approximately YRls 40 million of which YRIs 15 million were for
short-term loans and YRls 25 million were medium-term loans up to four years.
ACB's loan recovery performance on average is quite satisfactory; during
1978/79 it collected 89% of its due loans. Still weak are ACB's operating



- 26 -
results. It reported its third straight loss during 1978/79 and now carries
an accumulated loss of YRls 3.4 million. ACB's losses are not too serious as
they occurred during a phase of rapid expansion and rising operating cost.
During 1978/79 ACB received YRls 22.3 million in medium-term loans from the
Central Bank on which it was allowed only a 2 point spread (borrowing rate 4%
on lending rate 6%).
5.08      As of June 30, 1979, 92.5% of ACB's authorized capital had been paid
in and its medium-term borrowings had risen sharply over the last 12 months.
Unless ACB's equity base is strengthened and its profitability is improved, it
will not be in a position to maintain its present rate of expansion which is
highly desirable. YAR's agricultural sector is in the process of being trans-
formed from a traditional, subsistence oriented sector towards a more produc-
tive, capital intensive sector which is to support the country's growing
non-agricultural sectors. This development process is dependent on a steady
and increasing supply of investment funds for which ACB is the prime source.
It is therefore recommended that the YRls 20.0 million that ACB will channel
into the fisheries sector under the proposed project be provided to ACB in
the form of equity. A cash flow statement of the project's onlending operation
is shown in Annex 4. An assurance has been obtained during negotiations that,
not later than December 31, 1980, the authorized capital of ACB will be
increased from YRls 100.0 million to YRls 200.0 million and that the loan
funds for the project be made available to ACB as equity capital. The
doubling of ACB's authorized capital will allow further equity contributions
to be made which will be required if the projected increases of ACB's overall
lending operations for this and subsequent projects are to be realized. More-
over, ACB's capital requirements will be reviewed at intervals not exceeding
two years concurrently with the review of its interest rates (para. 5.11).
5.09      In 1978, ACB diversified its lending operations by extending loans
to the fisheries sector. By making loans for vessel repair and the purchase
of marine engines, ACB ventured into a credit market which is traditionally
dominated by merchants and middlemen with strong vested interest in the
fisheries sector. Through loans for domestic and productive purposes fisher-
men are tied to their creditors who usually claim a first right on the
marketing of their catches. After a period of resistence by the traditional
sources of credit in this market and occasional cases of intimidation, ACB
seems to have established itself as a welcome source of medium-term loans at
low interest rates. During its first year of lending to the fisheries sector,
ACB's Hodeidah branch made 44 loans totalling more than YRls 0.5 million which
is quite a satisfactory start given the tight control the influential middle-
men exert over the fishing community.
5.10      In the case of fisheries the base of production, the fishing vessel,
is extremely mobile and elusive which poses particular problems for securing
any loan in this sector. ACB has adopted a realistic and flexible approach to
this problem. Instead of being excessively security-oriented, ACB has estab-
lished a close working relationship with a small group of prominent and
reliable representatives of the fishing community who recommend potential
borrowers to ACB and provide it with needed information about the applicant,
for example, whether he is a full-time fisherman and has permanent residence



- 27 -
in the community. Naturally, wherever possible, ACB tries to secure its loans
through mortgages of tangible assets including fishing vessels but it relies
more on its close cooperation with the fishermen and careful selection of its
borrowers. At present ACB makes loans up to three years with repayment
schedules based on quarterly interest and principal payments.
5.11      The ACB together with the Industrial Bank of Yemen and the Housing
Credit Bank make up YAR's system of specialized financial institutions which
offer preferential lending rates to their customers reflecting the Govern-
ment's intention to foster development of agriculture, industry and housing.
YAR has a long tradition of negative real rates of interest including lending
in the commercial sector. However, as a result of a continuous dialogue in
which IDA stressed the undesirability of highly negative interest rates, the
Government has recently raised those rates drastically. Effective February
14, 1980, short-term lending rates were raised from 7% to 10.5% and medium-
term rates were raised from 6% to 9.5%. Given the high rate of inflation
(about 30% during 1980) prevailing in YAR, real rates of interest to agri-
culture are still sizably negative, but substantially less so than in the
past. The situation should further improve as the rate of inflation slows
down over the next few years as projected. The new rate of 9.5% for medium-
term loans should be accepted as the Government has decisively moved in the
right direction and more drastic action than the one just taken, i.e. raising
the medium-term rate by almost 60%, can hardly be expected at any one time.
During negotiations, an assurance has been obtained that interest rates of ACB
for short and medium-term loans will periodically be reviewed at intervals
not exceeding two years following the next review which will be made not later
than February 28, 1981.
5.12      The project's total credit requirement excluding contingencies
will be about YRls 20.0 million which will represent approximately 80% of
total investments made by the fishermen under the project. Borrowers will be
required to contribute an average of 20% of the investment cost from their own
resources. An equity contribution of 20% by the fishermen will be advisable
to ensure the borrowers' utmost effort to prevent loss of or damage to their
credit-financed fishing vessels and related equipment. ACB is presently
discussing with several insurance companies the possibility of insuring
credit-financed fishing vessels. It is still uncertain whether this can be
done at an acceptable cost. Loans for fishing vessels will be made for four
years without grace period and loans for fisheries related equipment like
outboard engines and fishing nets will have to be repaid after one year.
These relatively tight payment terms which are in accordance with cash flow
projections, will reduce ACB's risk exposure in this line of lending. Never-
theless, ACB will make special provisions for bad debts against uninsured
vessels and related equipment. An internationally recruited credit advisor
with experience in lending to fisheries will assist ACB in developing its
lending capability in this field. During negotiations, an assurance to that
effect has been obtained.



- 28 -
C. Accounting and Auditing
5.13      All project entities using project funds, namely the MOA, the GCDFR,
the MOM, the HA and the ACB will keep separate accounts for the project.
These accounts will be subject to regular internal audits and annual external
audits carried out by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Copies of such
annual audit reports which will include an opinion on the use of funds dis-
bursed for works executed or equipment purchased will be sent to IDA within
six months of the close of each fiscal year. An assurance to that effect has
been obtained during negotiations.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.14      The project manager will be responsible for monitoring project
implementation. Baseline data for fish catches and fishermen's income at the
most important fish landing sites have been established during project prep-
aration and confirmed during appraisal. These baseline data will be used for
monitoring the various project activities. The staff of the PIU will collect
and analyze sufficient technical and analytical data on the project's major
components to properly evaluate the effects of the project and to follow its
progress against the project implementation schedule as shown on IBRD Chart
21354. In addition to special monitoring records, routine records on all
project actions, programs, budgets and expenditure will be kept. The project
manager will submit quarterly progress reports, including a summary of the
project accounts to IDA through the MOA. The reports will be received by IDA
within two months from the end of the report quarter. In addition to the
quarterly progress reports, the project manager will prepare a draft comple-
tion report for submission to the Association within six months after the
closing date of the project. An assurance to this effect has been obtained
during negotiations.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING PROSPECTS AND PRICES
A. Fish Production
6.01      With the project, total fish production will be expected to reach
about 21,200 tons annually at full development which will represent an
increase of more than 83%. The fishermen in Khawbah will benefit most from
the project as their catch at full development will be expected to increase
by about 260% to 5,000 tons annually including 560 tons of shrimp. This far
above average increase will reflect the full utilization of the presently
underutilized productive potential of this industrious fishing community. It
will be expected that the fishermen from Khawbah will redirect some of their
catches presently landed in Jizan towards their own market, once the main
barrier caused by the lack of land access to larger inland marketing outlets



- 29 -
has been removed by the proposed 32 km road link. The proposed landing
facilities and processing terminal will also be an important contributing
factor. With better marketing facilities some fishermen, who left the trade
to find more rewarding occupations, might return to their earlier profession.
6.02      Fish landings at Mocha will increase from their present level of
735 tons per year to 1,550 tons per year at full development. This increase
of 110% will be expected mainly as a result of the fish marketing development
efforts of Taiz, Dhamar and Ibb. Fish landings at Hodeidah and Khawkhah will
also increase but at less dramatic rates, as their existing marketing outlets
are already relatively well developed. Annual catches landed at Hodeidah will
increase from 4,670 tons annually to 6,600 tons annually at full development
(+41%) and at Khawkhah fish landings would increase from presently 1,100 tons
to 1,700 tons annually at full development (+55%).
B. Marketing
6.03      Demand for fish in YAR is strong.  Rapid increases in fish prices,
fish imports and domestic fish landings over the last several years strongly
support this. During 1976-1979 fish prices have climbed at about twice the
rate of the prices of other consumer goods, i.e., 48% versus 22% annually.
Fish imports have increased from 200 tons in 1972 to 3,800 tons in 1977 and
the fish import bill for 1977/78 has reached about YRls 21.0 million (US$4.7
million equivalent). Information on the development of annual fish landings
are rather scarce in YAR; there are however strong indications that fishermen
have responded positively to rapidly climbing fish prices and have increased
fish production within their limits. Demand for fish has similarly increased
in neighboring Saudi Arabia where, traditionally, a substantial portion of the
fish caught in YAR waters are landed. With disposable income continuously
rising in YAR and a sustained strong demand for fish, the marketing prospects
for the project's incremental fish production will be very good. Even better
market prospects can be expected for the project's shrimp production both in
YAR and abroad.
6.04      There is a considerable variation in the present annual per caput
consumption of fish in YAR, ranging from more than 60 kg in the fishermen
communities along the coast to practically zero in the more remote interior
provinces. To increase fish consumption in YAR would be one of the principal
development objectives of the project. Fish marketing development efforts
will be directed primarily towards areas where fish consumption at present
is particularly low and irregular. The urban centers along the Sanaa-Taiz
road which command large hinterlands will be suitable targets for an inte-
grated fish marketing strategy. Their location along the country's main
highway system will facilitate expeditious fish transport and distribution.
Fish marketing along the coast and in most parts of the Tihama are relatively
well developed and the existing marketing infrastructure in this area will be
adequate to handle increased fish supplies.



- 30 -
C. Prices
6.05      Fish prices although relatively high by international standards
compare favorably in YAR with prices of other forms of animal protein. The
national average retail price for fish is about YRls 14/kg which is consider-
ably lower than the price of 60-70 YRls/kg for mutton, of YRIs 45/kg for veal,
of YRIs 30/kg for beef and YRls 30-40/kg for domestically produced chicken.
The only meat which is within the same price range with fish is imported
broiler which sells at about YRls 10 to 15/kg.
6.06      Fish prices in YAR vary considerably according to species, location
of market and daily volume of catch. Indian Mackerel, which make up 45% of
the average national fish landings, sells at YRls 4/kg in Hodeidah and at YRIs
10/kg in inland markets. King fish, the most favored species, sells at YRls
22/kg in Hodeidah and YRls 29/kg in inland markets; and shrimp, which at
present is only caught as by-catch, is sold to hotels in Hodeidah at YRls 30/
kg. The short term supply/price relationship for Hodeidah indicates that
prices vary between 80% and 120% of the median price level. In Khawkhah
prices vary between 50% and 188% while in Mocha price variations of between
71% and 143% have been observed. These short term supply/price relationships
reflect the differences in flexibility of these various markets to accommodate
varying supplies of fish. Hodeidah, thanks to its central location and its
larger marketing area, has the least problem in handling varying supplies
of fish. The Tihama markets absorb more fish in the case of above average
catches while neighboring fishing villages supply more fish than usual if fish
landings at Hodeidah are below average. In general, however, the wide daily
price fluctuations reflect the general lack of fish storage facilities which
regulate the quantities of fish supplied to the market. It will be one objec-
tive of the project to stabilize fish prices through the provision of proper
storage facilities. To properly reflect the observed price fluctuations
caused by short term supply variations in calculating the project's financial
and economic benefits as well as the fishermen's income, a price elasticity of
-.15 for the country as a whole has been assumed. That means a nationwide
doubling of fish landings will reduce the average wholesale price by 15%.
This assumption should be considered conservative given the fact that fish
prices have increased faster than the YAR consumer price index.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Designed Simulation Model
7.01      To deal adequately with all financial and economic aspects of the
project and to assess the impact of possible adverse variations in some key
assumptions a computer simulation model was designed for the project. The
model is made up of three separate programs. The first program calculates
the project cost by year, the foreign exchange component as well as provisions
for price contingencies. The second model calculates average wholesale fish



- 31 -
prices for the country as a whole and by vessel type. The third and final
program is used to estimate on an annual basis the catch, revenues and costs
experienced by the fishing industry at each of the eleven main coastal loca-
tions. In addition to calculating the anticipated changes to the fishing
industry the program also estimates the expected distribution of the catch
throughout the country as three market areas. Finally, the model. extracts
all the relevant financial cost and benefit streams and adjusts these by
shadow prices and taxes to arrive at the economic cost and benefit streams
which are then used to calculate the project's economic internal rate of
return and its net present value. A detailed description of the overall
structure of the model, the interrelationships between input assumptions,
programs and output results are contained in the Project File. A schematic
representation of the model structure is given in Annex 5.
B. Beneficiaries
7.02      As a major national development effort, the project will benefit
directly and indirectly large segments of the country's population. The
principal beneficiaries will be among those who are actively engaged in
fish production, distribution and marketing. The benefits of the project
will however be shared by the masses of consumers who will be provided with
substantially increased quantities of inexpensive animal protein of high
quality. Total employment created by the project has been estimated at
approximately 1,000 new full time jobs. About 650 jobs will be created
among fishermen as vessel owners and employed fishermen. The remaining
350 new jobs will be created in various occupations associated with the
operation and maintenance of physical infrastructure, construction of fishing
vessels and the flow of fish from landing to ultimate consumption. The
coastal zone will benefit most from the project-induced employment as more
than 85% of the new jobs will be created there. The remaining 15% of the
newly created employment opportunities will accrue to the inland provinces.
7.03      It will be very difficult to realistically quantify those Yemenis
who will benefit from the nutritional value of the almost 10,000 incremental
tons of fish that will be supplied to the market annually. In terms of
nutrition, the 10,000 tons of fish will meet the entire animal protein require-
ment of about 190,000 people, based on the FAO defined requirement level. As
fish will represent only part of the animal protein requirement in a balanced
diet, the number of people benefiting from the project will be much larger
than 190,000. The project's incremental fish production will cover 26%
of YAR's present animal protein deficit.
7.04      In the case of fisheries in YAR, the creation of a substantial number
of employment opportunities will not necessarily be in conflict with the
increasing manpower shortages prevailing everywhere in the country. The lack
of economic opportunity within the fisheries sector has caused many Yemeni
fishermen to leave their profession and their country when more attractive job
alternatives became available at home and in neighboring oil rich countries.
It will be the project's overriding objective to rectify the sector's struc-
tural deficiencies and through the creation of new investment opportunities



- 32 -
to reverse the present trend of emigration out of the sector as it holds the
potential of becoming a major supplier of domestically produced animal protein.
The project will therefore aim primarily at reintegrating those manpower
resources who left the fisheries sector earlier because of lack of economic
opportunity and concentrate on mobilizing the resources presently employed in
the sector to higher levels of productivity.
C. Financial Benefits
7.05      Fishermen Income.  Fishermen income in YAR is determined by the
type of fishing vessel used, the location where the fish is landed and by
the custom according to which the catch is divided among the crew, the vessel
owner and the vessel itself. Because of the vessel's higher productivity
the catch per fisherman on a sambuk is about double that of a houri fisherman,
i.e. 9 tons and 4 tons per year respectively. The higher productivity of
the sambuk is to some degree offset by the higher prices the houri catch
usually receives in the market. Because of the difference in fishing methods,
the houris land their fish often in much better condition than the sambuks.
The quality price differential that has been observed is about 15% for the
same species.  Fish prices in remote landing places with no or only very
limited access to outside markets tend to be lower than in centrally located
landing sites.
7.06      Traditionally in YAR, the catch of a fishing vesel is divided into
three equal shares of which the owner of the vessel claims one for himself
and one for the vessel.  The remaining share is divided among the crew.  At
present, the lowest annual income among hired fishermen is received by those
working on a houri out of Midi while the highest income is earned by those
working on a sambuk out of Hodeidah, they receive YRls 5,300 and YRls 17,300
respectively. On average, non-owner fishermen in YAR earn about YRls 11,000
per year. Similar income variations exist among vessel owners whose average
annual gross income has been estimated at YRls 20,270.
7.07      Based on the assumption that at the time of full development the
existing share allocation system will still remain in force, the average
income of the Yemeni hired fishermen will increase by 30% to YRls 14,200
annually. The gross income of vessel owners, who are favored by the existing
sharing system, will increase by about 60% to YRls 32,400 annually. If the
present trend of structural changes caused by increasing labor shortages
continues, then it will be realistic to assume that by the time of full
development of the project the system of income distribution in the fisheries
sector of YAR will be forced to change.  If that occurs, then some of the
productivity gains that will have been obtained from introducing more effi-
cient fishing vessels under the project would have been redistributed from the
vessel owners to the hired fishermen.



- 33 -
D. Recovery of Costs
7.08      The project will provide facilities that will benefit individual
project participants directly and exclusively, like fishing vessels, marine
engines or fish transport vehicles. The costs per unit of investment will
be recovered directly from those beneficiaries through the credit facility
administered by the ACB. It will be a much more complex undertaking to estab-
lish a similar relationship between the costs of project infrastructure
investments like the Hodeidah fishing port, the Khawbah fish landing pier
or the Khawbah road link and their immediate beneficiaries. To recover the
investment cost of jointly used major infrastructure facilities that represent
high percentages of total project cost like the fishing port in Hodeidah will
be very difficult to organize and practically impossible to enforce. Insist-
ing on strict cost recovery of the marine facilities will cause the fishermen
to bypass project financed infrastructure and return to their traditional way
of landing and handling of fish. The economy will loose from such a develop-
ment as the investments will be underutilized and fish quantity and quality
will not reach projected levels. Since the project will generate sufficient
economic benefits that will recover those investment costs several times
throughout the life of the project and the operating and maintenance costs of
these facilities will be covered by revenues obtained from the leasing of
shore facilities to the private sector, it is recommended that no user charges
be imposed on the use of the public infrastructure.
E. Economic Benefits
7.09      The project will produce a variety of economic benefits some of
which can be clearly identified and quantified while in the case of others
it would be less meaningful to express them in any quantitative form.
Direct Benefits
7.10      The project's principal economic benefit will be an increase in
fish production from presently 11,600 tons to 21,200 tons at full development
which represents an increase of 83%. The retail value of the annual incre-
mental fish production has been estimated at YRls 75.5 million or US$16.7
million equivalent. This benefit will be realized through the combined
effect of the following development activities:
(a)  investments in port and fish landing facilities, improved
fishing vessels and shrimp trawlers and processing and
storage facilities to increase the sector's catch capacity;
(b)  investment in handling and marketing facilities to accommodate
higher throughput, increase product quality and to reduce
spoilage losses; and
(c)  upgrading the composition of the catch through introducing com-
mercial exploitation of the shrimp resources.



- 34 -
7.11      Other benefits will accrue mainly in the form of cost savings.
Better protected off-loading.and berthing facilities to be provided by the
project will save the fishermen of Hodeidah and Khawbah an estimated YRls
1.0 million (US$0.2 million equivalent) annually in operating and mainte-
nance costs. Another minor benefit will result in the form of road-use
savings from the secondary road that will link with the Jizan-Hodeidah main
road.
Indirect and Unquantifiable Benefits
7.12      As the first organized development effort ever undertaken in the
country's fisheries sector, the project can be expected to benefit the sector's
performance in many ways. Probably the most important of the indirect and
unquantifiable benefits will be that it will make the country less dependent
on imported animal protein. For a country like YAR which has a very small
export potential, an efficient domestic food production base is vital to the
country's economic stability. There will be substantial improvements in the
institutional support systems like organized lending of medium and long term
investment capital. The sector's operational capabilities like building,
repair and maintenance of improved fishing vessels, etc. will be raised to
more adequate levels.
F. Economic Rate of Return
7.13      The key assumptions model and input data used in the economic
analysis are contained in the project file. For the purpose of calculating
the project's return to the economy, fish has both been treated as a tradable
and non-tradable commodity.
7.14      Based on these assumptions and data, the economic rate of return
for the project is 22% (considering fish a tradable commodity and using border
prices, the rate of return improves to 28%). The sensitivity of the rates of
return to variations in some key assumptions has been tested and switching
values have been determined for key variables susceptible to change.
7.15      The results of the sensitivity analysis show that the project
remains a sound investment even with substantial variations in key assump-
tions and parameters.
7.16      The results of the switching values analysis suggests that before
the rate of return of the project will drop below the opportunity cost of
capital (10%) that:
-    project infrastructure costs will have to increase by 98%;
-    vessel and truck operating costs will have to escalate by
over 39%;
-    the price/supply elasticity will have to increase -.22
(a 49% increase in negative slope); and



- 35 -
the increased catch anticipated from the project will have
to fall to only 5,000 tons instead of the forecast of 9,600
tons.
7.17      It is reassuring to see that infrastructure cost can practically
double before the project will become uneconomic. Given the technical assis-
tance provided for the project and YAR's recent private sector performance
records, it is unlikely that increases in operating cost of 39% will be
incurred. The likelihood that fish prices will drop 22% with a doubling
of production also seems unlikely given the fact that in recent years fish
prices have continuously increased much faster than the consumer price index
in YAR. According to OECD projections, fish prices at international market
will continue to increase faster than general inflation. Finally, the like-
lihood that with the additional catch capacity fish landings only will increase
by 5,000 tons also seems low, since the annual catch of these vessels will
have to be significantly below what is already being achieved by existing
sambuks.
G. Risks
7.18      As a result of the limited administrative resources of the public
sector and the explicit wish by the Government to minimize its intervention in
the free market, some aspects of this project can only be realized with the
positive response of the private sector. In the past the fishing industry in
YAR has shown a reassuring sense of initiative and entrepreneurship. Efforts
will have to be made throughout project implementation by the GCDFR and the
ACB to ensure that the lending programs to the fishermen are well publicized.
In addition, the GCFDR should actively promote the new fish marketing facili-
ties in the inland cities and encourage the development of improved transport
to these centers.
7.19      Although interest was demonstrated by a private company to operate
the proposed shrimp and fish handling facility at Khawbah, difficulties may
arise in negotiating an acceptable arrangement. If this were to occur, it may
seriously impede the market for the shrimp landed by the new sambuk trawlers.
Every effort should be made to seek a suitable operator for the Khawbah
facilities well before construction completion. In the event that a suitable
entrepreneur does not emerge immediately it may become necessary for the GCDFR
to operate these facilities on an interim basis till one is found.
7.20      A second potential risk of the project relates to the introduction
of new fishing methods. Trawling by the artisanal sector has only been tried
on a limited basis. Both fishermen and boatbuilders will have to see the
benefits that can be derived from this new fishery. Given the usually conser-
vative nature of traditional trades a good effort must be made to expose the
new crafts and the techniques for trawling. The boat building component
of the project should be distributed to ensure that all of the major boat
builders have an opportunity to see and possibly participate in the construc-
tion of these new vessels.



- 36 -
7.21      A third potential risk concerns the marketing of the project's
incremental fish production will be two-phased. The initial phase will be
selling more fish to established fish eaters in the country. No problems are
foreseen in marketing more fish to such consumers who at present cannot obtain
all the fish they wish to consume. Once this existing demand is fully satis-
fied, the marketing of the project's incremental production will enter the
second phase, where fish will have to be introduced to those consumers who
have had very little or no exposure to fish consumption at all. As with any
change in dietary habits, a certain amount of resistence will have to be
overcome. This second phase is mainly concerned with marketing of fish in the
country's interior. The project's marketing development strategy will concen-
trate its efforts in these areas. With the help of women extension workers
who work under bilateral health and nutrition projects, it is expected to
successfully penetrate these markets and overcome the initial resistence. The
nutritional value of the fish and its price competitiveness with other sources
of animal protein will eventually overcome the anticipated initial resistence.
7.22      The final set of risks of the project relate to the anticipated
increase in productivity. First, although improved port, shore and marketing
facilities are constructed, the fishermen may not increase the length of
their fishing season appreciably and thus erode some of the potential benefits
of this investment. There are obviously no measures which can force self
employed labor to work any more than it wishes, however, the GCDFR and the
ACB should (especially amongst those purchasing new vessels) point out the
importance of achieving a certain number of productive fishing days per year
and translate this added productivity into increased income. With an expand-
ing domestic market and improved marketing facilities the risks to fishermen
should be reduced providing greater incentives for increased productivity.
Secondly, the expected increase in catch rates resulting from the use of
improved vessels and equipment may not materialize. The DOF and the GCDFR
should carefully monitor the catch rates of new and old vessels to ensure
that improvements are being realized. In the event that increased catching
productivity seems to be falling below target, investigations should be
undertaken to identify the causes of the low productivity and increased field
training provided to ameliorate the situation.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreement having been reached on the various issues referred to in
Chapters IV and V of this report, and subject to the conditions of effective-
ness in paragraphs 4.10, 4.12 and 4.13, the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of the equivalent of US$17.0 million to the Government of the Yemen
Arab Republic on standard terms.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Characteristics of YAR's Fisheries Sector
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__--------------------------------------------
YEhEN ARAB REPUBLIC - FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FISHINO CHARACTERISrICS           LOCATIONt ALL LOCATIONS
AVG CTCH       nf---- ====      n=====c= uinn TONNE.                                  ---s--s-- s-n =n minafina
NO. UF'. /DAY    TOT   -------------------- CATCH COMPOSITION /1--------CONS    NET(
VESSEL TY8E      VESS DAYs (KG)   CTCH        1      2       3      4      :3      6       7      8      9   LOSS   FMEN   LNDU
YEAR 1901
I 8tIURI (SALL)      46  200   10      95     43       6      5      12     11                     18                    16      79
2 HIJURI (MOTOR)    769  200   25   3872   1742    232    194    503    46t                       736              8    260   3605
3 SAMtPtK (sAtL)      1  200   40       a       4      2              1                             1                     1       7
4 S911'HllK (MOTOR)   156  225  217   7614   3502   1904    381    685    2218                    914            381    147   7086
5 HO8TIF. !HAMIOUK
6 T RAWL StAM!It(O
TtOTAL NOW        972  204   58  11509   5291   2144    579   1202    705                      1660            389    423  10777
TOtrAl. AT START   972  204   58  11589   5291   2144    579   1202    70S                     1668            389    423  10777
NET l f ff-f-REi;CE
N04ow.lRI, (3)
HOUDl/FOTAL Cz)   04   90   42       34     34      11     34      43     611                    45              2     65      34
- ----------4
1 lOalJRl (Strt .)
2 HOURI (MOTOR)    003  214   28   4781   2152    287    239    622    574                        908      .       a    271   4503
3 SAM.hUK (SAIL)
4 SAMPUN (morOR)   157  252  219   8660   3983   2165    433    779    260                       1039            433    148   8078
5 h1Ji1 *. sAtIBUK   60 .252  200   4241   2035   1060    297    297    127                       424             42     57   4141
6 TRAWL sAMIIUK      30  200  318   1908       95     57            496    134    420       57    458    191      38     28   1041
TOT6L NOW        1050  222   84  19590   8266   3569    969   2194   1094    420   -57   2030    191    521    504  18564
TOTAL AT SrART   972  204   5H  11589   5291   2144    579   1202    70r;                      1668            3r9    423  10777
NEI  D:VFERENCE    78   18   26   8001   2975  *1426    3s9    Y92    390 * 420          57   1161    191    132       81   7787
N0W/STA.RT (Z)      8    9   44      69      56     67     67      s3     5i                     70             34     19      72
H8tJRI/TOTAL (Z)   76   97   33      24      26      a     25      28     52                     32              1     54      24
YEAR 1990                                                                                                                                  Pz
I HO;IRI (S41L)                                                                                                                                 t2X
2 H08URI (MOTOR)    794  214   28   4733   2130    284    237,   615    560                       899              7    268   4458           FI
3 SAM8NU1  (SAIL.)                                              'H
4 S4MAIUK (MOTOR)    99  252  218   4899   2254   1225    245.   441    147                       588            245     84   4570
5 bOOOIlF. GAMBUK    127  255  278   9001   4321   2250    630!   630    270                      900             90    120   8791
6 Ti.AWL S'IMBUK     40  200  318   2544    127       76        ,   661    170    560       76    611    254      51      38   2455
,~~~~~--  ---- --- _              ---       ____        __            _ _-- ----  ---    ----    ----    - ---    ----    ----   -----    ----    ----    ---- 
T.rAL NOW        1050  222   91  21170   6831   31335   1112   2340   1163    560        76   2990    254    393    510  20275
TOTAL AT START   972  204   50l 1 157   5291   2144    579   1202    705                       1668            389    423  10777
i:r JJIFFi-RENCE    78   1 8   32   95is9   3540   1692    532   1146    45U    560       76   1330    254       4     86   9498
IJOW/6TArF 1X3      0    9   56      83      67     79      92     95      6'                   t]0              1     20      su
!:JuuNIJTOlIL CX)   76   97   31     22     24       7     21      26     4'.                    30              2     53      22
|1  1 - Indian Mackerel; 2 - King Fish; 3 - Tuna; 4 - Jacks/Barracuda; 5 - Emperor, Mullet,
Snapper; 6 - Shrimp; 7 - Lobster; 8 - Other Mixed; 9 - Scrap Fish



---------  ------------------------------------------ ----  -----------------------------------
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC - FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FISHING INDUSTRY COSTS (YROOO)           LOCATIONI ALL LOCATIONS
REPLACEMENTS         TOTAL ADDED    TOTAL INVESTMENT EXPENSE8        CO9TS OF OPLRATION
------------- NEUP  -------------   ---------------------- -
VESSEL TYPE     IES  ENO   OR  UNT  VES  ENO   OR   VESS   ENOS   OEAR    TOT   FIXD    VAR   MANP    TOT
--- -- -- -- --  - -   -- --   - -   -- --   - -   --  - -- -- -   --    - ------   ----  ----
YkAR 1901
____.___________
I  HOUR1t (OAlL.)     3        23          3        25      62            12      74     99            284    392
2 HOURI (MOTOR)      69  195  385        .69  195  385   1415   1733    192   3339   2000   4464  1;:69  19334
3 SAIDUK (SAIL)                                                                           7             16     24
4 CAS'UK (MOTOR)    10   19   53          10   19   53    900   1325    477   2702   1317   2970  1i895  21181
5 .MI)XF. DAIIBUK
6 TkhWL SAMIUK
TOTAL NWJU        02  214  463.        82  214  463   2376   3058    682   6116   3423   7434  30064  40921
TOTAL AT START    02  214  463          82  214  463   2376   3059    682   6116   3423   7434  30064  40921
NLT iIFrrrkcNCE
lt0U/GTAkT 'tZX
HOUIRI/TOTAL (X)   88   91   99         89   91   89      62     57     30      56     61     60      44     48
YEA.R ; 98SI
0,
I HOURI  (SAILs    *
2 tl&WUF  (tiOTOR)   69  196  394  1   87  214  412  .1794   1854    206  3-843   2089   499S  14349  21433
3 SAtiIaUK (SAIL)
4 SCKtWK (fMUT(IR)    10   19   53        10   19   53    900   1325    477   2702   1325   33!7  17165  21848
5 tOI.uIf. fiPt1rIUK  1    6   13  .18   19   24   31.  2128   1240    977   4345    815   1007   E0G1  11503
*6 TRiAWL SAHPUK      2    3   15    7    9   10   22   1350   1760    594   3704    739    924   4806   6469
____ --.. _____                                                                                     _ .--   ---   ---   ---   ---   ---   ---   ___     ----   ----   ----   ----  ----   ----
TOTAL NOW         82  224  475   43  125  267  518   8162.  6179   2253  14594   4968  11084  45201  61252
TOrAL AT START    92  214  463      .  82  214  463   2376   3058    682   6116   3423   7434  30064  40921
NET DIFFERENCE          10   12   43   43   St   55   3786   3122   1571   8479   1545   3650  15137  20331
Now/SrA1T (Z)            5    3         52   2i   12    159    102    230    139       45      49     50     SO
POIg/Ir'OdTAL (X)   84   88   03   42   70   80no  80     29     30      9      26     42.    45      32     35
YLAR 1990
1 VOMRI (SAIL)
2 NOURI tMt1T0iR)    71  198  398        . 71  198  398   1456   1791    199   344S   2065   4939  13826  20831
3 SA.-.BIt  (SAIL.)
4 SAh1UK (MOTOR)           1   20               1   20            500    180    680    7S1   1901   9444  12096
5 MODIF. SAMBUK       5   14   38   13   18   27   51   2016   2040   1607   5663   1726   3855  18218  23798
6 7RAWL SAMUK        3    5   25    2    5    7   27    750   2160.   729   3639    985   1233   6236   8454
TOTAI. NOW        79  210  481   15   94  233  496   4222   6491   2714  13427   5527  11927  47725  65179             X
TOTAL AT SrART    82  214  463          82  214  463   2376   3058    682   6116   3423   7434  30064  40921
NEI DIFFERENCE    -3   .4   18   15   12   19   33   1045 . 3433.  2033   7311   2104   4494  17661  24258
N:OW/START (%)     -4    2    4         15    9    7     70 e  112    298    12tl    61       60      59     59
He!'RI/TOTAL (X)   90   91   83         76   85  n0       34 ,   2E8     7      26     37     41      29     32
_ --------------------------------                               _  _ _ _



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC - FISHERIES.DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FISHING INDUSTRY RENENUES (YROOO)          LOCATIONt ALL LOCATIONS
REVEN TO FISHERMEN   REVENUES TO OWNERS                      NUMBER OF MEN      AVERAGE REV
tAUC   JltS    -- - - - - - -      -- -   - - -
UESSEL TYF'E      KIND  MONEY    TOT   KIND  MONEY    TOT    REV    VAL        FMN   OWN   TOT     FuN      OWN
YEAR 1981
I ttOURI (SAIL)       60    167    226  .  40    339    370       31    536       69    46   115    ::.3      8.2
20 1i$Jrd (MOtOR)    993   7570   8563    662  15370  16032   1429  24369    1154   769  1923         7.4    20.8
!;8Mi';JK (!;-IL)    5      14     19      1      28     29      2     44        6     1     7      3.1    28.8
4 ShAT1.I( (Ili)TOR)  774  14277  15051    129  20987  29116   3573  46836       936   156  1092    16.1   186.6
S MOLsIF. SAIILUK                                                                               0* o0         0.0
6 TRAWL SAhl[:'N                                                                                      0.0     0.0
------ ------ --  ---  ----  --  ---  ---- ----   - -     - -
1)I'AL NtOU       1831  22028  23059    831  44724  45555'  5035  71787    2165   972  3137    11.0    46.Y
.,r:.L tAT START    1031  22028  23859    831  44724  45555   5035  71787    2165  .972  3137    11.0    46.9
fit r 8 IFTF;RLNCE                                                                                  0.0     0.0
ttU:J, sr,:r r'(X)                                                                                  0.0 .*  0.0
HOUJI/Tnl'6L CZ)    57      35     37     84      35     36     29      35      56    84    65    65 2    43*0
YEAR 1985
1 W,Ur.I (S4IL)                                                                                       0.0     0-0
2 HOUn' c,4rJrOR)    925   8441   9365    616  17137  177S4   1562  27140    1205   803  2008         7.8    22.1
3 CArl;UK (SAIL)                                                                                      0.0     0 0
SAlr:lUK (iMrJtJ0)  694  14506  15200    116  29451  29567   3653  47609       942   157  1099    16.1   188.3
'i IOL;IF. SfAMLUK   267   7505   7772      44  15237  15202   1482  24223       360    60   420    21.6   254.7
6 TF.hUL SAMIUK      160   4005   4165      27   0131   0157    639  12774       180    30   210    23.1   271.9
TdT,;L NOW        2046  34456  36502.   803  69956  70759   7335 111747    2607  1050  3737    13.6    67.4
lTi4L AT START    1831  22020  23059    031  44724  45555   5035  71787    2165   972  3137    11*0    46.9
NLI DIFFI;REN(E    215. 12428  12643    -20  25232  252D4   2300  39960        522    78   600      Z.6    20.5
Now/srART (X)       12      56    53      -3      56     55     46     56       24    .8    19    23.3    43.8
HUU1I/lOTALL (X)    45      24     26     77      24     25     21      24      45    76    54    5?*2    32.8
YEAR 1990
I HOURI (SAIL)                                                                                        0.0     0.0
2 HllOtJJ I(MofTR)   0 090   8133   9023    593  16513  17106   1507  26153    1191   794  1905       7.6    21.5
3 br,;1iUK (LA1L)                                                                                     0.0     0.0
4    I c l Wr t iUf OR)  383   7981   8364  64  16204  16268   2030  26215       534    89   623    15.7   182.8
5 r.OLI1F. VtMTAJK   546  15395  15942      91  31257  31340   3393 .50046       762   127   889    20.9   246.8
6 TRAL S,AMDUN       209   5197   5405      35  10551  10506    829  16577       240    40   200    22.5   264.6   0 
---------       --        -- --- --   --                --;----- ----------  --- ----    ----   x' 
TOTAL NOW         2027  36706  30733    783  74525  75308  ;7759 118'991    2727  1050  3777    14.2    71.7    *
TOTAL AT START    1831  22028  23859    831  44724  45555  ,5035 .71707    2165   972  3137    11.0    46.9
NET DIFFLRENCE     196  1-4670  14074    -49  29802  29753  t2724  47204       563    70   641      2.2    24,9
NCiU/START (X)       11     67     62     -6      67     65     54     66       26     8    20    28.9    53.0
HULPI/TOTAL (Z)    .44      22     23     76      22     Z3     19      22      44    76    53    53*3    30*0
-                                            --------------                                                --------------                    ---------                                                 -------------- ____________



-40 -                                      ANNEX 2
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Yf MthN AABF ,.iL    - f iSHi9IE'; 0DEEL POME 1.7 P.UJ[CT
F'4UJ I CT CO5 i (US i 10
Rtf- Okl PRICf CU:4T INfFNCI ES                      AFTER PPICE CONTINGENCIES
PVOJFCT I Li .i'NT          jltAE   XiZJ    FJKuN  C0M 1    19b1    1982    199'1    1'184    1985  i7TAL  FORGN   DO'5ST   XFOR
HODFICAH t ANDhDIlh  FAC[LITI S
8RFAKicATfR                       2520      70    176.4     75h        0    1386    1134        0        0    3733    2217    1516      59
OUAY                              1'69      30   .575       39A4       0    10Y3    8as         0        0   27h9    1980       790     7'1
FUEL i. WAFER FACILITIES             30     77      23        7        0      15       15       0        0      4'3     29       1'4    68
AUCTION HALL                       1s5      .      103       55        0       0     158        0        0     257     135      123     52
CHILL PflM                          8O 80    5       .8     12        0       0       80       0        0     116      89       2?     77
POWER SUPPLY                       100      7?      77       23        0      50       5J       0        0     144      97       47     68
ICE CRUSiFRS                          8    90        7        1       0        G        8       0       0       11       9        2     84
WASTF DISPCSAL                      20      77      15 I               0       0       10      10        0      32      ZI       11     65
RDxFS E S9ARf                        13    '35      12        1        0       0       13       0        0      18      16        1     92
PROJFCT HOUSING                    115      73      b4       31     115        0        0       d        0     140      94       46     67
PHYS CONT                          977      75     733    Z'4.4      20      49f    4'5)        0       0    1411      921      490     65
MO8ILIZ&TION                      1320      79    .04'     277    58        198     198      396       0    1859    1306       553     70
SUB-TOTAL                         7310      75    5504    160b      663    3230    3J11       406        0  10532    6914    3618       66
KHAWRAH LAN'OING FACILITIES
PIER                              1,2C0    80    1056      264         0     726     594        0        0    1856    1327      529     71
ICE PLANT                          4o0    35      204       36        0     -20     120        0       0      330     257       73     78
SHRIMP HANOLING                    333      85     283       SC      50      167     11        0        0     445     349       96     79
AUCTION HALL                       120      85     102       18        0      60       60       0        0     165     129       36     78
WASTE OISEOSAL                     1l       85      14        2        0       0       16       0        0      23      18        5     77
FUEL E WATER                         35     85      30        5        0      18       I        0)  0    a      48      38       11     78
GENERATOR E POWFR                  110      aS      93       17        0      33       77       0        0     154     120       35     78
ICE CRUSHER                          4    90         4        0       0        0       4        0       0        6       5        1     84
MISCELLANEOUS                       22      80t     18        4        7       7        9       0       0       30      22        8     72
W0ORKSHOP                            30    t80      24        6        0       6       24       0        0-    4i       31       13     71
PROJECT H0USINeG                    58      73      42       16      58        0        0       0        0      71      48       23     67
PHYS CONT           -              409      60     327       82      ZO      205     184        0        0     572     410      163     72
MOBILIZATION                       65b      7v     520      138     263       99      99      19 7       0    927      651      276     70
Su8-TOTAL                         335s      81    271o      639     398    1439    1321       197       0    4671    3403    1268       73
KHAtKAH SHOCRE FACILiTIES
SALES HOLL                           36     90      32        4      i8       18        0       0        0      44l     38        6     86
INSULATED STCttAGE                  43      90      39        4      13       30        0       0       0       53      4.6       7     86
FACILITIFS  (OTHFR)                 1      90      ;3        2        0      15        0       0        0      19       16       3     86
WATER E WASTE                        12    S0       11        1        0      12        0       0        0      15      13        2     86
POWER                               56    90        50)       6      22       34        0       0       0       69      59        9     86
PHYS EnNT                           24    *l3t      22        2        7       7       10       0        0      31      26        5     85
SUB-TOJAL                          18b      90     167       19      60      116       10       0       0      231     199       32     86
MOCHA SiHORE FACILITIES
SALES HALL                           36     90      32        4      i 8      18        0       0       0       44      38        6     86
INSLILATFP ST.AGE             .     1 43  au       3)        4      13       30       0        f0      0       53      46        7     86
FACILITIfS  iOTHER)                  IS     90      13        2        U      15        0       0        0      19      16        3     86
WATER E WASTE                        12     90       11       1        0      12       0)       0        0      15      13        2     86
POwER                               4..    9o        ,0       6      22       34        0       0        0      f4      S9        9     86
PHIS CONT                             -.   '.       2?        2        7       7       10       0        0      31      26        5     85
SuB-TOTAL                          IS6      lo0     147      19      'I0     116       10       0       0      231     199       32     86
___________________________ - - -      - -  - - - -   - - - ---   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   -- - - -   - - - - - -   - - - -_



-41 -                                     ANNEX 2
Page 2
INLA'.0 MAPYIT 1
5ANAA                             28V       1*)    231      68      47     202        0    0           '     3t4     274    .100      73
TAI7                               14Z  80)        154     3e8     5      134        0       0        0     24E     1.R2      66     73
18H                                6hl     hO      50       13      11      44        0       0       0       a2      60       Z2     73
OHAMAR                             th3     A)      511      13      1'       44       0       0        0      8a       60     2Z      73
PIfYS CONT                          *,0 L   i'     48       12      L 4     4         3)      U        0      78      57       21     73
__  _ __  _ _  __  _ _  __ _  _ -- -- -- - -- -- -- -  -----  _____ -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -- -  - _ ---_ --- - __-
SUB-TOTAL                         667      Pv     634      133     Z00     467        J       0        0     863     633      230     73
VfSSFtS E FLUIPPFNT
MOD SAhMUK HULLS                 1493    5       $ e$0'  . 7      2'ii    29Y      ZJ9     249     2)9   2625    1062    1562        40
ENCINtS  I45tHP)                   533     95     506       27     107      107     IC7    107      107      728     657       61     92
MOD) FISHING GEAR                  180     95     i71        9      36       3h      3       36      36      ?4lo    225       2`0    92
NET HAWLERS                       240      91     228       12      4d      4b       4'      48      48      32t     300       27     92
SAMBUK TRAWLER HQULLS            1000      54     540     460      2G0     200 2     00     200     200    1758      712    1046      40
FNGINES tbOHP)                     534     95     507       27     107     10C      101    107      107      729     669       61     92
TRAWLING GEAR                      180     95     1i7        9      3b      3b       36     3J       36      246     225       2t     92
HOURI HULLS                        137     5 4     74       t3      Z7      27       27      27       e7     241      97      143   *40
ENGINES (1tSHp)                     30     95      ZS        2       b        6       6       6        6      41      38        3     92
HOURI FSHNG GEAR                     3    95         3       0       L.  1        1       1            1       4        4       0     92
ADD FISHING GEAR                " 200      95     190       10      40       40      40      40      40      273     250       23     92
ADD ENGINES                       100 I       %    95       .5      20      20       25      20      2O      137     125       11     92
SPARE PARTS                         10     95       9        1       2        2       2       2       2       14      13        1    92
PHYS COUT:                         464     85     394       70      93      93       Y3      93      93      678     520      158     77
SUB-TOTAL                        5104    .73   3724    1380   1021    1021    1021   1021   1021    8047    4908    3139              61
TRANSPORT
INSULATED TPUCKS                    90     95      85        5       0      23       23      23      23      128     117       11     91
REFRIOGF*RATED TRULKS             120      95     114        6       O      30       30      30      30      171     156       15     91
SPARE PAQTS                          5    95        5        0       0        1       1       1        1       7      -b        1    91
PHYS CONT                           22     95      21       I        0        6       6       6        6      31      29        3     91
SU8-TOTAL                         237      95     225       12       0   - 59        59'     59      59      337     308       29     91
TECH ASSIST E CTHER
TRAINING                          200    100      200        0     100     100        0       0       0     234      234        0    100
TRANSPR2T
INSULATED TRUCKS                    90     95      85        5       0      23       23      23      23      128     117       11     91
RtfRIUGfQATFD TRUCKS               120    915     114        6       0       30      30      30      30      171     156       15     91
SPARE PARTS                          5    95         5       0       0        1       1       1        1       7       6        1     91
PHYS CONT                           22     95      21        1       0        6       6       6        6      31      29        3    91
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - - - - - - -   - - - - -   _ _ _ _ _ - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   -- - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - -  - _ - - -_ - - - -_ _-
SU6-fOTAL                         237      95     225       12       0      59       59      59      59      337     308       29     91
TECH ASSIST 8 OTrIER
TkAINING                          200    100      200        0     100     100        C       0       0      234     234        0   ICO
TECHNICAL      -                 1275    100    1275        .0       0       0      4S5     459     332    1791    1791         0    100
ESTABLISHMENT OF YfC               100     60      60       40       0        0      50      30      20      185      83      102     45
SOIL INVFSTIGATIONS                130    100     130        0      65      65        0       0        0     152     152        0    100
EETAILED DESIGN                   220    100      220        0    Z20         0       0       0        0     247     247        0    100
SUPERVISION                        720    100     720        0     346      94      281       0       0      870     870        0    100
Sul-TUTAL                        2645      93   2b05        40     731     259      815     489     352    3478    3376      102      97
TOTAL  iROJfCT (NO ROAD)    19690          79  15644   4046    3133    6706   _246   2172    1432  28390   19939    8451              70
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
PkICE CONTINGENCIES (hO ROAD)                                      583    2344   3119   1421    1233    8700    4296    4404          49
YEARLY TnTAt INCL CONTINC (NO ROAO)                               3716    9051    9165   3594    7605
KHA.FRAH ROAEt LINK
CONSTRUCTICN i32xh)              1000      70     700      300       0     500     5O0        0        0   1490      883      607     59
PHYS CnNT                          1SO     70     105       45       0      75       75       0       0      224     132       91     59
SU8L-TUTAL                       1150      10    805      345        0     575     575        0       0   1714    1016       698      59
___________________________ -----          ----     --__ _     -- -   ---- _   --- - _   -- -   ----   -----   ----    -__ -- _ _ _ _    - -
I,)TAL PR)Jit CT I wITH RUA()  Z0340       79  16449   4391    3133    72E11   6821   2172    1432  30104   20955    9149             70
______________________------_--_ -_- - --- ___------ - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - -- - - -- - - - ---___---__________ -_____-
PR ICE CONrI NCt NC ILS (wITH T                                    53ROAJ  3   2574    3453   1421    1233    9264    4,506    4758   49
_ Y_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   -      -_  - -                      - --- ----       -                      _-  -  _ I   _ 7   -85  _ --   ---- -_-- -665
YE ARl Y TlT AL INCI CON114 ING T   RO'AD)                        171h   985>   10;So?.     9      2h
----- ----   ---- -----   ---- ----   -----   ---- ---- -----    ---- ---- ---- -_-_     _    ____- _ _ _______,---_____________   -  --------------__ -     



- 42-                                ANNEX 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year                    Disbursed                       Cumulative
and Semester                  During Semester                   Disbursements
------------------  US$   000
Fiscal Year 1981
First                               750                              750
Second                            1,450                            2,200
Fiscal Year 1982
First                             2,000                            4,200
Second                            2,700                            6,900
Fiscal Year 1983
First                             4,300                           11,200
Second                            2,200                           13,400
Fiscal Year 1984
First                             1,800                           15,200
Second                            1,200                           16,400
Fiscal Year 1985
First                               400                           16,800
Second                              200                           17,000



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit Bank
Project Cash Flow
(YRls'000)
1             2              3             4              5             6              7              8             9
Cash Inflow          --                                                        ------ Years -------------------------------------
Paid in Capital /1                                 1,500.00       3,500.00      5,200.00       5,600.00      4,200.00             -             -              -
Principal Payments on Project Loans
- medium term /2                                      -           278.39        977.08       2,059.70      3,256.46       3,849.16      3,248.37       2,133.97         898.85
- short term /3                                       -           152.00        228.00         380.00         713.00        836.00            -              -             -
Interest Payments on Project Loans
- medium term /4                                       -          128.25        410.11         768.41      1,023.28       4,253.04         628.12        303.28          89.98
- short term /5                                        -           16.80         25.20          42.00          78.70         92.40            -              -             -
Total Inflow                                  1,500.00      4,075,44       6,840.39       8.850.11      9,271.44       9.030.60      3.876.49       2.437.25         988.83
Cash Outflow
Project Loans
- medium term                                    1,350.00      3,260.00       4,800.00      4,850.00       3,320.00            -              -              -
- short term                                       160.00        240.00         400.00         750.00        880.00            -              -              --
Investments                                           45.00          35.00         45.00            -              -           45.00            -              -           35.00
Operating Expenses                                    145.00        235.00         250.00        250.00         250.00        250.00         270.00         270.00        270.00
Total Outflow                               j1,700.00       3.770.00       5,495.00      5850.00        4.450.00         295.00        270.00         270.00         305.00
Ceash surplus (deficit)                              (200.00)       305.44      1,345.39       3,000.10       4,821.40      8,735.60       3,606.50      2,167.30         683.80
Cumulative cash surplus (deficit)                   (200.00)        105.44      1,450.83       4,450.90       9.272.30     18,007.90    21,614.40    23,781.70    24,446.50
/I  Capital Contribution made under the project.
/2  Four year repayment without grace period.
/3 One year repayment.
/4 9.5Y%.
/5 10.5%.



-4 4 -                                ANNEX 5
YEMEVN ARAB REPUBLI C
FIS'-ERIES DEVERLOMENT PROJECT
Schematic Representation of: Model Structure
| Project, 
r             {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Po
Impctcn. of 9ro-1 t               Pr   9c Iot                          ;nopact ofPr
_    ng an,                          In tgr.                                  ndu   Fishing  %
_  Distribution                       IEIAA             _ -               Ldut-ry_
RKP5DAT)                                                             (F'5i}DAT)_
Cost Benefit                       Project Cost                        Wholesale Prices
and .tarketing                     by Year rith                        by Vessel rype
Assuaptions:    f                  Contingencies                        (E.Xl 2)
Fshi-ag Catch
Characteristics
by Location.
Vessels ar.d
Species
Fishermn, Own.ers  |             Pshing industry
and 14holesaler                  Costs by Locat- on
Reevenue by :,ccatica            a nd vessel r-ype
ar.d vessel lype                  EXH 51
(Ea 4i'. 
_   atcn, Renrenue 
and Costs for
allocatIons_
Average Annual                                                           itibto 
Rv nue and Coses                                    ~~~~~~~of Catch to 
by Vessel Type                                                        .Markets
(EXH 7)                                   (EE91
71Fihing ZIqdustry                 T  ransportationX                    TDt-Al and Incre-|
Total and Incre- |                 Requiramen-s  |m rental Value of 
mental Sales and 1               ar.d cc;szs     ||Consumptcion by   j
Costs                              (2mi   )                            MarketI
|(EXH S)         _               iI                                      XR  1O) 
e                                  1                                 j~~~~~~~~cnm~
|   c.knaiysls



- 45 -                           ANNEX 6
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports, Studies and Documents Relating to the Project
Al   "Fisheries and Marketing in the Yemen Arab Republic" - FAO Technical
Report No. 13, IOP/TECH/77/13, Indian Ocean Programme, Rome 1977.
A2   "Study to Establish the Viability of a Shrimp Fishing Industry" FAO/
TF/YEM/11, Rome 1978.
A3   "Development of Landing Places and Minor Fishery Harbours in the
Yemen Arab Republic" by Consultant Hostrup-Schultz and Sorensen,
Copenhagen Denmark, for FAO Revised Draft, November 1979.
A4   "Report of the Preparation Mission for Yemen Arab Republic, Fisheries
Development Project" by FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, Report
No. 39/79YAR6, Rome 1979.
B.   Selected Working Papers Prepared by IDA Staff and Consultants
Bi   Field Notes on Meetings and Observations.
B2   Computer Simulation Model Designed for the Project.
B3   Price Structure and Mechanism for Fish.
B4   The Importance of Fish as a Source of Animal Protein.
B5   Regional and Development Impacts.
B6   Present and Future Income of Fishermen and Others.
B7   Employment Effects of Project.
BS   Project Cost, Phasing and Price Contingencies.
B9   Detailed Estimates of Fishing Characteristics, Sector Revenue and
Industry Costs by Location.
B1O Assumptions Regarding Vessel and Truck Costs Including Foreign
Exchange Component.
Bll Assumptions Regarding Retail and Wholesale Costs and Revenues.
B12 Cash Flow and Financial Analysis of Vessel Operations.



-46-                              ANNEX 6
Page 2
B13 Road Benefits.
B14 Other Economic Port Benefits.
B15 Detailed Sensitivity Test Results.
B16 Accommodation Requirements and Costs.
B17 Processing Industry Cash Flow.
B18 General Corporation for the Development of Fish Resources:
Cash Flow.
B19 Catch Estimates and Maximum Sustainable Yield.
B20 Program Listing and Data File.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF                                                                                     HH
MUNICIPA LITIESMi, YOAGICTRHIHYAUOIY
DEPARTMENT
OF FISHERIES
FISHERIES
TRAINING
DEMONSTRA- 
T ION CENTE R            G ENER A LCORP OR ATION|
FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF|
FISH RESOURCES
POECT IMPLEM EN-
_  -- _ _- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _,TATION UNIT                      -
I~~~~~ AGRICULTURAL
MUNICIPALITY                                                                AGRIT                     KHAWBAH
FISH MARKETS                         C                  HODEIDAH                BANK                  ROAD LINK
_       _IZ                                   r     FISHING PORT          ON LENDING TO
SANAA                                              SHORE FACILITIES
T*IZ      U       KHAWBAH
IBB                                CL               FISHING PIER
DHAMAR                          PRIVATE           SHORE FACILITIES          FISHERMEN
SECTOR                                  FISH MERCHANTS
ENTERPRISES           KHAWKHAH
r   SHORE FACILITIES
I
L J     MOCHA
_WSHORE FACILITIES
World Bank -21585






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CALENDER YEAR          1980              1981             1982             1983             1984             1985
Activity                                                    -
_ 1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4    1  2   3  4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
A. MARINE AND SHORE FACILITIES
1. Additional Site Investigation
2. Preparation of Detailed
Designs and Tender Documents
3. Tendering and Bid Evaluation
4. Contract Award
5. Mobilization
6. Construction- - - - -
B. BOAT BUILDING
1. Modified Sambuks                                 _   =   =   =   -         =        =       =            _   _   _
2. Houris                                           _   -        _ -      _       _        _   =
3. Shrimp Trawlers                                           _            - _   _      _   _       _
C. INLAND FISH MARKETS
1. Sanaa                                                             =         =   -      _
2. Taiz
3. Ibb
4. Dhamar
D. KHAWBAH ROAD LINK                                                             _           - _      _        _
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Project Manager                              _   _        =  =   =             =   =                     -   - _   _   =   _
2. Boat Builder                                              _   _   =            =   -   -   -  =   =
3. Master Fisherman                                              _   -                 _   _       _ -  -
4. Crew of Fishermen
5. Fish Marketing Advisor                                    _  =   =             _        _ -     _   _        _
6. Credit Advisor                       _ _                              ---I------ -
World Bank -21354






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SAMBUK TRAWLER
GILL NET HAULER
9I
2       3     _ _ _ __~~2  
______   -   ~ - ncreased _ r f y_    _ _      _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
FULLER SECTIONS TO PERMIT        OUTLINE BODY PLAN             SECTION AT GILL NET HAULER
ENGINE POSITION MORE AFT                                                                                                World Bank-21383






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPROVED SAMBUK
CON L TT TIINSULATED                                        NETHAULINGPLACE                FORE PEAK 
~~~~~ 5
CONTROL THAT THERE ISI
SPACE FOR THE STRONGER      OUTLINE BODY PLAN           SECTION AT GILL NET HAULER
ENGINE                                                                                                    World Bank-21384



I
I



IBRD 14749
\5rtz)s  1RAO \          $0* 599 te                                44                                       YEMEN    ARAB    REPUBLIC                         FEBRUARYI190
S A U D I  A R A B I A                               FISHERIES DEVElOPMENT  PROJECT
zt0r55.= Z            ,  >                  \                                                            MAJOR   INFRASTRUCTURE
_O   OAOAE  'V <                 VDHAHRANBY LOCATION
PROJECT
Isi5tESrAJ Rj [. Ports ond Loading Facilihtes p.j nlWad Morkets
~~~  0          N                        NARAN  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  Sho-e F-cliies ,ncl,cding   SOP Sh-inp Poes
sVrsN ,'-' weAraNUg,1A:rx Fo-FgZ   ./   \ >   ONAJRAN           Wholesale Markets                Processing
U-                                                --.---N.                                    J  Malsiog             -Road
Kir, rlH,otlA  \ 508.14   5   8                                                        NON-PROJECT
*0.  /                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pavd Primay Roads
______________________-_______|__                       SAMARA                                                ---Primary Roads Under Constructios
JIZAN                       i                                                                                Other Roads
SAADAF\                                                                Airports
~~~~BANI ~~~~~~~~~~~0    Cities, Ton,ns a,,d Villages
UWAIR                                                     National Capilals
rcJ                    \CBERAT                                                   Moan Wadis
Internot-oal Boundalries
C     HARAD
MAIDI                            SH HARA
HOTH                                        |
)HAMER                                                  0      20     KILOMETERS     40    100
AL
ABS           0MAHABISHA                                                        N
C          20         40 M0
MILES
LUHAIYA                                                                      u
LUHAIYA,/  eOH AN                HAJJA  --           MRIAN              -A
KHAWBAH0       AL       W         A TOOR                                         10
KHUSHM  MAWR               AL           OAB          A
7P T  (D        f        i)(3( CAMP         MAHWEIT       AB   9                                           MARIB
SAL IF    >SANA                                                 IV
C     SIRDUJD                                      HAZY oAZAN
\)BAI L>                  ANAKHAH                                   0HARIB/
+cv    itSOO>HNA             DUR~ANIS    O^ZURAJAH 
-4'         SOOKHN~~A    DURAN             MABAR                  C
HODElDAH~  00          / ORAYMAN           MADINAT
MASURIYAH          ~     >                       
(BET     AL HAYH                        DHAMAR          AAA                  
ALAW IA ALFAQIH0\\<' 
AL JURUBAH                                                            \      
ZABI      WADI ZABID CAMP                           ARRADMAH
TOHAITAH - _          /                                    0       DAMTH
KHAWKHAH                    AWNAH           EL KAIDA                                     P EO  P L E' 
BA                                           D  E M O  C  R A  TI C           R E P U B  L  I C
@                                  8  yHuGDAn \ MAWIYAy r                                          O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F   Y E M E N
MOCHAnsF                               U K          KHX
O   TURBA  .'FLI 
.__tI SHIBA                            \
,DUBAB    ,
/                                                 -   5ADEN
E T H  I O  P  I A
/
I./     DD  J  I B O         U  T I                                                                                        a    , a. W.,_ _   ,1.f _   .,
_O,id-O StO -o tAO t,,p- .pi,04 Ot. Oat ut f5h WOOid 4,*5012
,t00  ti~OtOt0 t ,O Ot2 roramOn 025 .in4oao 



I



IBRD 14/50
.EAnOn r4* \>t59W$  >       (.i*&                                                                                                                              FEBRUARY 1980
$~~o~ n-~~   .1  SAUDI            ARABIA ~~~YEMAEN   ARAB   REPUBLIC:
30''ft Nr ,,;,-(lr-  S A  U D  I    A  R A  B     AFISHERIES   DEVELOPMENT   PROJECT
L_ NE  SUWAT                                \FISH  LANDINGS AND  DISTRIBUTION
DHAHRAN
LIOITEOArS%                                                                                                            00         r
00                        .7        -                       ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~NAJRAN            0 
-  10.-                                                                        Paved Pr mary Roods
',                        /                                       !                                          ---Pr I`ory Ro od s Under C onstruction
S %  t o5AMARA                                                Other Roads
JIZAN                                                                                                       Mo,n Wadis
\" ~-   SAADAH                            /                                    A.sports
O    Caies, To-ss ond Vdiloges
.   \   r   \'vUWAIR  I  '                           *    Not-anal Copitils
\   [   ~   '\   r   BE RAT |   _    Regianal Boundrn s
- .-. reat-aiona  Boundories
396 
+  3         1                   ~~~~~~~~~SHIHAR  \/
'  \     /    }               -      '                ',    }           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 20  AO    50  80    1100
-16'                                                                                              -                           0Bj    20 OAHABISg  [HAMER  KILOMElERS
-16-              0    OA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                         2            0n
2,618~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~05
aX~~~~~HRAN HJ;_Ai   
4,657 KHAWBA H-sO                                            RW                       P<1
X A    P        MAHWEW          ILTA    M   IS
.~~~~~ >.    I*r\  AAt\ 
C t )0 :1~~~~DUAR    .)!
I.
L .~~~ c   , Ag   8   (L HAYH        \                         A                              t    j             \,618HARI
ETHIOP~   ~            ~ IA  f.                                    = -,                                    PLE
/      <y \.!0 */,                                      MWYA-                             -      oF    
27                                                   ANI TUB     MAJAH\
DUBAB  J            -~DURAN
/./k
ETH I                                                 MAIA P           --/-                     -AE
/-                                                                       f5? 3' AF AT ADDTET
/'           DJIBOUTI
~~~L HA`~~~~~~~~H  HAMA          ADAA~~~~~~~*C51E1
FAQIH~~~~~~*                                                                               5






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Khowbah Fishing Quay
\This ntap has been prL *red bY the World Bank s staff soc/sively fort t2conconietno     
soundarcies sh?own on this p do not imply, on the p  o
an  dgotent Ott legal  stu ofnritory oranden   t                                                                                                                          Project area
-    Project buildings
1111111111 \Existing buildings
Shoreline
Boni Sherl                                       --2--    Bothymetric contours
\ / / . 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i n meters
'Shrima                    ~~~~~~0 20   40   60   80  100
Ls  7-- liLandirng      Grocer                          METERS
!  l gM -  Service
ARAe       400                 50 \j TAR 
RtP OF
EGYPT                               .U
\~ \ISAUDI ARABIA
If  0  5  A                                                                      -20, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'20'-
:5   9    0   t;   ;        <           0       |    BU der              fX                             X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00re
J~~~~~~
L   ,   |       1      1   '             t           /            |      |                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.-International6boundaries  ,,'5.0  00 s1
OMN -






ARAF          aoF\                  5O so\Q,ATAR        - 
EGYPT 7:m\                               \U.A.E F                                                               YEMEN   ARAB   REPUBLIC
'---0f t SAUDI ARABIA                                                                        FISHERIES  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
-20-    ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ *'20' -.                                                                                                                 H r       o
t6MAN                                                                 Hodeidah Fisheries Harbor
SUDAN/                        O    EE
Ho hida~A?;           a       ARA..........                                                         ....... /AEfH ___-> ....... E   Project area  Shoreline
!     DJIBOUjJ  AiMlf 2'  AdN          SEA                                                    EEi'. i     Project buildings                  2- -   Bathymetric contours in meters
ioS   E                                             IO'-                                             --T7-F l7-r Embankments                    --7            Elevation contours in meters
ETHIOPIA    .-SMAI
7                                                                                 Existing buildings
I-Internat,onalboundories
'I                 (            ___                     - -  i                           '7
I       ,                                                                                                                           - , \A      t\\\ I      I \)          '     
Ii                                                             [t                                            . 1                           7 J-q--  J
I I
Fish
\4\  ^ > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it[u ngJ|X//t
\             F ~~tsh  Landing                                                    |-___IJ_____|_|_f________
This map has been prepared by the World Bank's staff eaclssively for the convenience
of the readers of the report to which it is attached The denominations used and the                                                                                                                                                 > i
boundaries howa  on this map do not imply, on the part of the World Bank and ,ts                 0       20      40      60      80      100
affiliates, any judgment on the legal status of any termtory or any endorsement or ,                                                                    ./
acceptnce of such boundarns.                                                                                     METERS                                                    _/                                                        CO
acc           __       _     _    __       _     __      _     _     __ptan_                           __       _     __      _     _     __      _     __       _    _002



