Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FILE  COPY
Report No. P-2792-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 28, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficial dutifes. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank nthorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978                   December 1979
Currency Unit  =  Yemen Rial (YR1)           YR1
$1  =  YRls 4.50  1/             4.50
YR1  =  $0.22                     0.22
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June (Prior to 1980)
July 1 to December 31 (1980)
January 1 to December 31 (From 1981)
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB    =    Agricultural Credit Bank
CPO    =    Central Planning Organization
DOF    =    Department of Fisheries
GCDFR  =    General Corporation for the Development
of Fish Resources
MOA    =    Ministry of Agriculture
PIU    =    Project Implementation Unit
YAR    =    Yemen Arab Republic
1/ No par value for the Yemeni Rial has yet been declared to the IMF.
All exchange transactions are affected at the Central Bank rate which
has been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Yemen Arab Republic
Amount:              $17.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:        The project is IDA's first lending operation for fisheries
development in YAR and is also the first integrated devel-
opment effort that has ever been undertaken in YAR's
fisheries sector. The project would enable YAR to better
use its highly valuable but largely underexploited fish
and shrimp resources by introducing the infrastructure and
technology needed to improve the production and marketing
in the fisheries sector, thus increasing the income and
improving the economic well-being of YAR's artisanal
fishermen and reducing YAR's increasing dependence on
imported animal protein. The main project components
include:
(a) Construction of an artisanal fishing port and related
facilities in Hodeidah, the center of YAR's fishing
industry.
(b) Construction of an artisanal landing pier and related
facilities at Khawbah.
(c) Construction of fish handling, marketing and storage
facilities.
(d) Construction of a 32 km road to link Khawbah with the
new section of YAR's main highway.
(e) Provision of credit facilities for fishing vessels,
equipment and transport vehicles.
(f) Provision of technical assistance and training.
The project would directly benefit those actively engaged
in fish production, distribution and marketing. The
project's benefits would, however, be shared to a great
extent by the consumers who would be provided with
substantially increased quantities of relatively inexpen-
sive high quality animal protein. The major risks facing
the project are: (i) possible lack of participation by the
private sector on whom the government relies for the
utilization and management of project provided facilities;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(ii) reluctance of traditional fishermen to adopt new
fishing methods; and (iii) smaller than expected increase
in productivity. Provisions have been included in the
project to minimize these risks.
ESTIMATED COST:                                Local        Foreign         Total
…-------    $ Million-----------
Hodeidah Fishing Port and Khawbah
Fish Landing Pier                             2.12           7.16          9.28
Khawkhah and Mocha Shore Facilities              0.03          0.29          0.32
Inland Fish Market Facilities                   0.12           0.49          0.61
Shrimp Trawlers & Fishing Vessels               1.31           3.33          4.64
Fish Transport Vehicles                         0.01           0.20          0.21
Khawbah Road Link                                0.30          0.70          1.00
Technical Assistance & Training                  0.10          2.54          2.64
BASE COST                                  3.99         14.71         18.70
Physical Contingencies                           0.46          1.67          2.13
Price Contingencies                              4.85          4.62          9.47
Sub-total                                  5.31          6.29         11.60
TOTAL                                      9.30         21.00         30.30
=             =
Financial Plan:                                Local         Foreign        Total
-----------$ Million-----------
IDA Credit                                                     17.0          17.0
Cofinancier                                        -            4.0           4.0
YAR Government                                    8.0                         8.0
Fishermen                                         1.3                         1.3
9.3          21.0          30.3
Estimated IDA
Disbursements:               IDA FY    1981       1982      1983     1984      1985
-------------- $ Million--------------
Annual                                   2.20      4.70      6.50     3.00      0.60
Cumulative                               2.20      6.90    13.40    16.40    17.00
Estimated
Completion Date:   June 30, 1985
Economic Rate
of Return:          22 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 2859-YAR, dated April 15, 1980



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR A FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of US$17.0 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms,
to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), to help finance a Fisheries Development
project. The Government of YAR has requested the Danish International
Development Agency to participate in financing the project with IDA.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economy," (No. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978, was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 3, 1979. An updating economic
mission visited YAR in November 1979. Country data are attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. Follow-
ing the 1962 Revolution which ended the feudal rule of the Imam and opened the
country to the outside world, and after a protracted civil war that lasted
till mid-1970, the new republican government succeeded in establishing within
a surprisingly short period of time the foundations of a modern state. Tech-
nical ministries were strengthened, essential government institutions were
created such as the Central Bank and the Central Planning Organization (CPO),
modern budgetary and banking practices were introduced, and a reasonable
level of working effectiveness was achieved by the public administration.
Tribal fragmentation, a major obstacle to political stability in the past,
is gradually being overcome. Central government control has been spreading
throughout the country and continues to do so.
4.        Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for a rapid development of the public and private
sectors. In 1973, the government, with the help of a Planning Assistance
Team in CPO financed by the Bank and the Kuwait Fund, launched a Three-Year
Development Program (1973/74-1975/76) which subsequently was implemented
with support from foreign technical and capital assistance. In its wake, the
physical infrastructure was expanded and communication links were built; first
attempts were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of
its medieval setting; industrialization was started, albeit on a small-scale;
education was spread at all levels; health services were improved; projects
were initiated to build urban water supply and sewage facilities; and rural
development was promoted through local development associations.
5.        More recently, especially since 1974 when international oil prices
moved to higher levels, there has been an unprecedented increase in personal
cash incomes based mainly on remittances by Yemenis who went to work in Saudi



- 2 -
Arabia and the Gulf States. It is estimated that net workers' remittances
rose from some $40 million in 1969/70 to over $1 billion in 1977/78. Largely
as a result of these cash inflows, YAR's per capita GNP has more than doubled
in real terms since 1969/70, reaching a level of about $580 in 1977/78. While
these developments, together with fast-growing government expenditures for
both investment projects and public services, have greatly alleviated YAR's
traditional problems of poverty, famine and rural underemployment, they have
created new ones which will have to be addressed in the 1980s.
Major Development Issues
6.        Foremost among these is the problem of manpower shortage which has
become the overriding constraint to YAR's development. This shortage has been
created by large-scale labor migration to neighboring oil countries which
now absorb about two-fifths of YAR's male labor force. At the same time,
labor demand has increased sharply within the country as a result of develop-
ment programs initiated by the government, and a rapid expansion of private
business activity. Labor scarcities of both skilled and unskilled categories
are pervasive throughout the economy; but they are particularly pronounced
in the public sector, largely because salaries of civil servants are lagging
behind those offered in the private sector.
7.        The labor shortage places serious limitations on the absorptive
capacity of the public administration. Although the government has been able
to substantially strengthen its institutional and administrative capability
over recent years, the rapidly growing volume of development programs con-
tinues to strain YAR's civil service. This makes it difficult to assure the
rational allocation of the country's fast rising investment resources. During
the past, when funds were more limited and modern facilities were sorely
lacking, the authorities found it relatively easy to select high-priority
projects such as establishing the basic physical infrastructure, introducing
modern education, building irrigation works, power stations or a few factories.
With the rapid growth in development spending, however, the range of choices
is increasing and the long-term costs and benefits of individual projects are
not always as obvious as in the past.
8.        Another issue concerns the proper maintenance of existing and new
capital stock. So far this question has not received sufficient attention by
the authorities, perhaps understandably so because of the newness of most
capital structures. However, as the stock of fixed capital increases--and
there is visible evidence of fast-growing numbers of public buildings, roads,
urban facilities, factories, power stations and irrigation schemes--the need
for adequate maintenance of these facilities becomes more and more pressing.
To meet this need, the government will have to provide adequate budget allo-
cations, introduce effective maintenance programs and assist in establishing
repair facilities for machinery and equipment.
9.        A special effort is required to mobilize domestic resources for
the financing of fast growing government expenditures. Although government
revenue rose rapidly during the 1970's the tax base is still very small -
about 13 percent of GNP in 1978/79. Most budget revenue is derived from



- 3 -
import duties while other sources of taxation are still largely undeveloped.
So far, budget deficits have been covered through generous foreign aid. But
this assistance is bound to diminish in relative terms over the longer run, a
development which calls for measures to broaden the tax base and to strengthen
the tax administration.
10.       Recent achievements in development, remarkable as they are, should
not detract from the fact that YAR continues to be one of the world's least
developed countries. Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially
in agriculture which employs about three-fourths of the resident labor force,
reflecting the very limited investment in physical capital made so far, as
well as the predominance of traditional production techniques. Nine out of
ten adults are illiterate and only one out of every four children in the age
group 6-11 is enrolled in primary school. Over 90 percent of the population
resides in rural areas, a large part in remote villages without access to
modern transportation, schools, electricity or health services. Moreover,
there are serious physical constraints to development in YAR. The country's
known natural resources are limited and a rugged topography poses severe
obstacles for road transport. Agricultural land and water are scarce and few
mineral deposits have been discovered so far.
Government Objectives
11.       The government's development objectives are outlined in the first
Five-Year Development Plan for the years 1976/77-1980/81. Building on the
achievements of the Three-Year Program (para. 4), the current Plan endeavors
to further develop the country's human and natural resources; to strengthen
the physical infrastructure; to raise the productivity of the commodity-
producing sectors; and to improve the standards of living of the people,
giving priority to their basic needs for food, health services, education,
water supply and other community services. To achieve its objectives, the
government has launched an impressive investment and manpower training pro-
gram, in close cooperation with foreign donors of capital and technical
assistance.
12.       The Plan identifies investment opportunities in all major sectors,
especially in transport, agriculture, industry, housing, education and public
health. The overall investment targets are very ambitious. They envisage
an increase in gross fixed capital formation from $170 million in 1975/76
to $1,230 million in 1980/81 (in constant 1975/76 prices), implying an annual
growth rate of almost 50 percent. The overall investment volume during the
five years of the Plan is to be $3.5 billion. Although not excessive for a
country of YAR's size and population (it represents an annual amount of about
$150 per capita), because of the steep increase in investment proposed by the
Plan, it is important that the technical feasibility and economic viability of
projects be studied before they are undertaken. In this context, the govern-
ment has asked the Bank to assist the CPO in a review of investment priorities
in sectors in which IDA is involved so as to help channel resources into the
most desirable areas. The results of the review would be utilized by CPO in
the preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan, FY82-86. Some of this work is
now underway.



- 4 -
13.       The next plan will be an important instrument for the government to
ascertain the economic viability of future investments. Encouraging progress
is also being made in education and manpower training. Enrollment in primary
and secondary schools is growing rapidly and programs in technical and voca-
tional training have been started. The University of Sana'a, established
in 1970, now has some 3,000 students, many enrolled in technical disciplines.
A large number of Yemeni students (about 2,300) also receive training abroad.
14.       Other issues still have to be addressed by the authorities.  They
include measures designed to strengthen the absorptive capacity of the public
sector; to broaden the tax base, thus providing financial resources for the
necessary increase in government salaries and essential public services;
and to introduce effective maintenance programs for existing and new capital
stock.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
15.       Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in YAR
has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to have
grown at an average rate of 18 percent a year between 1972/73 and 1978/79.
Economic growth was strongest in the modern sectors, reflecting the rapid
expansion of foreign and domestic trade, of government services, of transporta-
tion and finance. There was also a rapid increase of modern cash crops as
farmers took a growing interest in raising vegetables, fruits and poultry.
Subsistence agriculture, still the most important economic sector in YAR, grew
at a much slower pace.
16.       The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors.  Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new
markets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private
investment in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This
coincided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures.
Initially through various ad hoc projects, but later in a more coordinated
form through its Three-Year Program and the Five-Year Plan, the government
increased its capital expenditures from YRls 58 million ($13 million) in
1972/73 to YRls 2670 million ($593 million) in 1978/79.
17.       The short period since 1970 has witnessed marked changes in the
structure of YAR's economy. The shares of modern agriculture, trade, trans-
port and government services in GDP have all increased while that of subsis-
tence agriculture declined from over 40 percent in 1969/70 to less than 30
percent in 1978/79. Even so, YAR's economy is still very much underdeveloped.
The contribution of cash farming and industry (including construction) to GDP
is still smaller than that of subsistence farming.
Domestic and External Finance
18.       The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years has led to a substantial increase in overall savings. In 1978/79, gross
national savings are estimated to have exceeded $500 million which would be
equivalent to about 14 percent of GNP. Most of YAR's national savings are



- 5 -
generated by the private sector. It can be assumed that a large part of these
savings originated from workers' remittances, which are a major source of
money incomes in YAR. Recipients of those remittances often hesitate to spend
them on consumption items, partly as an insurance against future income
fluctuations and partly to save up for investments in housing, agricultural
equipment, etc. Savings are thus generated throughout the country, and their
ownership is widely distributed among different population groups. Large
amounts of savings are also being generated in the trading sector (most of
which is in private hands), in some areas of agriculture (e.g., fruits and
vegetables), in real estate and, to a lesser extent, in the new manufacturing
sector.
19.       Public sector savings were negative until 1975/76, reflecting the
very narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in that year). However, in the follow-
ing three years tax revenue more than trebled--due largely to a surge in
imports and accordingly increases in import duties. As a result, the current
budget yielded surpluses which in 1977/78 reached YRls 314 million ($70
million).
20.       Nonetheless, government expenditures both for recurrent and capital
purposes, are likely to grow rapidly in future years to cover the needs of
expanded education and health services as well as for more effective mainte-
nance programs. It will also be necessary to improve the remuneration of
civil servants to retain qualified staff in the public administration and to
provide adequate incentives for new recruitment.
21.       The expected growth in current government spending calls for con-
tinued efforts in mobilizing additional revenues. Emphasis will have to be
given to improving the collection of existing taxes, especially import duties
which are yielding rapidly growing receipts as the import volume expands
further. A thorough review of the present structure of import tariffs would
be desirable in order to maximize the revenue impact of such duties. Other
promising sources of additional revenue would be excise duties, sales and
turnover taxes. There is also much scope for direct taxation of business
incomes. However, the administrative and political obstacles against broaden-
ing the tax base are formidable, and in the meantime, generous foreign aid
is easing the burden on the current budget and finances a large part of the
government's capital expenditures (see paragraphs 25-27).
22.       The external financial position of the Yemen Arab Republic has
changed dramatically in recent years. While at the beginning of the past
decade foreign exchange was in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced
the government to request the rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding
commitments, the country has subsequently experienced a phase of comfortable
balance of payments surpluses and growing exchange reserves. The principal
reason for this change must be seen in the large and growing amounts of
workers' remittances and in the substantial aid flows, especially from
Saudi Arabia and other Arab oil-exporting nations.
23.       YAR's commodity exports are still extremely low, reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its



-6-
economy. During 1973/74-1978/79 these exports averaged $13 million a year,
or the equivalent of less than 1 percent of GDP. Most exports are of agricul-
tural origin, with cotton, coffee and hides being the three major commodities.
Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $120 million in 1972/73 to
$1405 million in 1978/79. This upsurge in import demand reflects the rapidly
rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the Yemeni rial, and the
absence of import restrictions.
24.       With exports lagging behind the rapid growth of imports, YAR's trade
deficit reached $1402 million in 1978/79, about twelve times as large as in
1972/73. However, YAR's import capacity is only marginally based on its
export potential and d.epends largely on its strong surplus position in the
service sectors, especially workers' remittances. Until 1977/78 the net earn-
ings from services exceeded the trade deficits resulting in positive current
balances. In 1978/79, however, the gross inflow of workers' remittances
levelled off while outflows rose sharply. This, together with fast rising
imports, created a sizeable deficit in the current account of the balance
of payments ($376 million).
Capital Flows and External Debt
25.       Since independence, YAR has received substantial amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifica-
tion as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the form
of grants and concessionary loans. Although a complete overview of all assis-
tance received by YAR is not possible because of information gaps, it can be
estimated that cumulative aid disbursements came to about $1.3 billion by the
end of FY1978/79. The principal donors were Saudi Arabia, the Gulf States,
IDA, the USSR, China, Germany and the USA.
26.       About two thirds of the total assistance given so far was provided
as grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently, budget
support. Food aid has been provided through the World Food Program and a
number of bilateral donors. A large part of official grants has been made
available in the form of technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of
skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has high priority and will be needed
by the country for many years to come. Besides the grants, YAR received
sizeable amounts of official loans and credits. Drawings on these loans have
increased in recent years, reaching $133 million in 1978/79. Most of the
official loans and credits have been committed for the financing of specific
projects with the main emphasis on roads; agriculture, including irrigation;
and utilities. The remaining funds were given for commodity assistance or as
cash loans.
27.       The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assistance have
been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China
are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries have
generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 percent to 4 percent. Loan
maturities range from 5-50 years with a median of 20-30 years.



28.       YAR's external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1979 was estimated
at $1075 million, of which $543 million was disbursed. The major creditors were
IDA, the Arab Fund, USSR, China, Germany and the Kuwait Fund. 1/ IDA credits
accounted for $174 million or about 16 percent of the total debt reported.
Because of the very favorable terms of borrowing, the debt service payments
amounted to $28 million for 1978/79, equivalent to 2.7 percent of gross foreign
exchange earnings (including workers' remittances). Although service payments
are expected to rise in the next few years, the burden of such payments would
continue to remain small in relation to YAR's exchange earnings.
29.       In recent years YAR has accumulated large foreign reserves.  At the
end of June 1979 they reached $1,550 million or the equivalent of more than
one year's imports. This reflects rapidly rising exchange earnings, a rela-
tively high level of foreign aid, and last but not least the country's limited
absorptive capacity. YAR's imports are still at a low level (about $240 per
capita in 1978/79) and are likely to grow substantially in future years. It
should be pointed out in this context that YAR's official reserves are not
assets earned by the State--as in the case of oil-exporting countries--but
represent largely the counterpart of unspent private incomes which could be
drawn down as import levels rise. Workers' remittances and capital flows, on
the other hand, are of more volatile nature and their volume could change
significantly within a relatively short time. YAR's present comfortable
reserve position may therefore be a passing phenomenon and could be eroded
quickly if recent trends in foreign exchange flows are not sustained.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 2/
30.       The proposed credit would be the twenty-third 3/ to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $208.3 million. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of IDA credits and Bank grants, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects, as of March 31, 1980. The World Bank strategy in YAR has
been threefold: to concentrate on developing the basic institutions, skills
and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for development, to
develop production and income in the dominant productive sector, agriculture,
and to support the government in its desire to meet basic needs in rural
and urban areas. To develop infrastructure, IDA has extended three credits
1/   The Federal Republic of Germany recently converted all its aid to YAR
into grants.
2/   Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Fourth Tihama Development Project which was considered by the Executive
Directors on January 29, 1980.
3/   Including the supplementary credit of $10.3 million for the First Tihama
project, No. 376-1 YAR, and the $7.0 million credit for textile rehabili-
tation, No. 832-YAR of 1978, which was cancelled at the government's
request in October 1979 (see Annex II).



- 8 -
for highways totalling $28.2 million, a $6 million credit for a port develop-
ment project, four credits for water supply and sewerage totalling $36.4
million, and a $10.0 million credit for power distribution. To assist in the
development of education, IDA has extended three credits for a total of $29
million, in support of primary and secondary teacher training, and secondary
and vocational education. To develop rural infrastructure and to support
production and distribution in agriculture and agro-industry, IDA has made
eight credits for a total of $72.4 million. To develop industry, IDA extended
a $2.3 million credit in 1974 for an industrial estate project, designed to
stimulate investment for small-scale industry as well as to provide a model
for future industrial development; in FY1978 an investment of $2.4 million
by the International Finance Corporation (IFC's first activity in YAR) was
approved to help finance a dairy and juice project.
31.       The main constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled, and the newness and weakness of its institutions. World
Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to strengthen Yemeni insti-
tutions and manpower capabilities, through increased training of local staff
and continued technical assistance, as well as through direct financing for
education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain substantial components for
technical assistance towards institution building. Two particularly important
examples of the World Bank's support for institution building have been in
the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and the Ministry of Agriculture. In
CPO, the World Bank (through three grants totalling $520,000) and the Kuwait
Fund have financed a team of planning and economic advisers so as to create a
planning machinery. In the Ministry of Agriculture, the Bank supplies the
services of seven advisors initially financed by UNDP with the Bank as execut-
ing agency, and now financed jointly by IDA (under the Second Tihama project)
and UNDP. The Agricultural Research Station at Taiz, which carries out agri-
cultural research for the country as a whole, is also financed as part of this
institutional support.
32.       Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, rural development,
and education, and will seek to spread the benefits of development more widely
throughout YAR. Particular attention will be given to YAR's ability to
implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff and technical
assistance needed for successful implementation. A second rural development
project in the Southern Uplands and a technical assistance project for the
Central Planning Organization have been appraised; a development finance
project, a rural electrification project and an education project, are in the
preparation stage. Future projects are expected to include industry, urban
development, health, and further rural development activities, as well as
assistance in the energy sector.
33.       YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing and is expected to cbntinue to finance a rising portion of its development
expenditures in the future. Nevertheless, it remains among the least-developed
countries and requires special assistance through financing of a large part
of project costs, including local expenditures when necessary. As in the



- 9 -
past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially higher
than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we shall continue to cooperate
closely with other donors so as to maximize IDA's catalytic role in stimulat-
ing co-financing. IDA-supported projects (excluding the textiles project), for
which credits amounting to a total of $184.3 million were made, have led to
about $250 million equivalent of co-financing from other aid donors. In addi-
tion, co-financing of about $4 million is expected to be provided for this.
project.
PART III - THE FISHERIES SECTOR
Fisheries in the National Economy
34.       YAR depends heavily on the importation of food and locally produced
animal protein is in particular short supply. The country's total food import
bill continued to rise rapidly between 1977 and 1979 led by increased importa-
tion of livestock and fish products.
35.       Development of YAR's fish resource could substantially improve
the domestic supply of animal protein and reduce the country's dependence
on imported food. At present about 11,600 tons of fish are landed annually
representing an ex-vessel value of about $15.0 million. Reliable informa-
tion on YAR's fish stocks are scarce but from limited research efforts and
intermittent observations, it is estimated that the country's fish resources
would sustain annual catches of around 30,000 tons. This would allow the
present level of production to increase by 150 percent. An increase in
production of about 80 percent, the objective envisaged under the proposed
project, would fill 26 percent of the country's present animal protein gap as
estimated by FAO.
36.       YAR's substantial marine fish resources also hold the potential
to earn foreign exchange for the country from the export of its high value
species like shrimp to neighboring export markets. The sector also can
provide a substantial number of attractive income-earning opportunities as
alternatives to emigration. Thus, the development of this domestic resource
deserves the high priority attached to it by the government in development
planning and allocation of investment funds.
Fishing Technology
37.       YAR's coastal regions have a long tradition of artisanal fisheries.
The sector is made up of small-scale, individual operations employing a
low-productivity fishing technology that has practically remained unchanged
for generations. The only modern feature of the sector is the marine engine
that has replaced the sail in most fishing vessels. Two types of fishing
vessels are in operation in YAR, the larger sambuk (11 to 15 m long) and the
smaller houri (6 to 10 m long). Both types, developed as sailing craft, are
well adapted to Red Sea marine conditions. The sambuk usually has a crew of
6 to 8 and an average catch capacity of 49 tons per year. The houri, with



- 10 -
a crew of normally two, lands about 5 tons of fish annually. Gill netting,
and single hooks and lines, are the predominant fishing techniques employed
on these vessels. In most villages, beach seines are used during the season
to catch sardines and anchovies. Taking ice on fishing boats and fish trans-
port vehicles has started only recently and remains a sporadic feature in
YAR's fisheries. In part the limited fishing activity is due to the non-
availability of adequate facilities for building boats.
38.       There are no established boatyards in YAR for fishing vessels.
Individual boat builders construct vessels to order, usually on the beach
and without the help of power tools or other mechanical devices, partly of
imported hard wood and partly of domestic naturally bent wood. The average
cost of a 15 m sambuk with engine is about $29,000 and that of a fully
equipped houri about $5,000.
39.       The sambuk and the houri have evolved over centuries as the most
suitable vessels for prevailing conditions, and boat builders are highly
skilled. The costs of their two most important inputs, skilled labor and
imported hard wood, have however increased very rapidly over the last three
years. If this trend continues, a point might soon be reached where it
would become doubtful whether YAR's traditional fishing vessels remain the
most economical means of production for its fishermen. In that case, alter-
native types of fishing vessels would have to be identified. The project-
provided boat builder (para. 60) will monitor this development and will, if
necessary, make corrective recommendations to alter vessel type and design so
that the fleet composition is changed appropriately.
Fish Production
40.       YAR's national fishing fleet comprises 815 houris and 160 sambuks.
These vessels are operated by about 3,150 full-time fishermen. The average
per capita income of YAR's fishermen is about $490 which is somewhat less than
the country's GNP per capita of $580 in 1978. Based on the number of fishing
vessels, catch rates and number of fishing days per year, total fish landings
in YAR amount to approximately 11,600 tons annually. Fish landings are con-
centrated at Hodeidah where about 40 percent of the national catch is landed.
The rest of the production is fairly equally distributed along the northern
and the southern coast.
41.       Fish production in YAR is mainly limited by the low productivity of
the traditional fishing vessels. The lack of mechanized fishing gear limits
the productivity of the manpower engaged in fisheries and the lack of protec-
tive refuges for the fishing vessels during strong monsoon winds limits the
number of fishing days per year for the relatively small vessels.
42.       The country's shrimp resources, which can yield up to 850 tons
annually, are not exploited as the sector so far has not developed the
necessary capabilities. Earlier, shrimp was harvested by large industrial
trawlers operated under joint venture agreements. In all cases these arrange-
ments were discontinued after some time when it became apparent that the
damage inflicted by the large vessels on the artisanal fishing operations
of the traditional fishermen was devastating and endangered their existence.



- 11 -
The Fishermen
43.       The Yemeni fishermen are a hardworking, skillful and energetic group
who traditionally have held a low position in the country's social structure.
Their customs and their way of living have altered very little for generations.
However, due to structural economic changes within the fisheries sector, new
systems of social relations between this and other sectors of the society have
been set in motion. Recruitment by the fishing industry now has to compete
with many other activities having lucrative returns, such as construction in
the principal cities, resulting in an increasing shortage of manpower in the
sector. The increasing shortage of manpower on the one side and the rising
demand for fish on the other side is changing the traditional tenure system.
Land-based vessel ownets are finding it increasingly difficult to recruit
crews for their vessels; this situation is particularly evident in the town
of Hodeidah which offers varied alternative job opportunities. A trend can
be observed of vessel ownership shifting from shore-based entrepreneurs to
fishermen operating the vessel themselves. The manpower shortage also is
having its effect on income distribution in the sense that the crew members
claim higher shares of the catch than was traditionally the case.
Fish Distribution and Marketing
44.       Of the approximately 40 fish landing sites along YAR's 600 km coast-
line, about 10 have some regional importance, while the remainder, mainly
smaller fishing hamlets, produce fish only for their community's own consump-
tion. The marketing of fish along the coast and in the Tihama has a long
tradition and is relatively well established. In the interior, the lack of
adequate marketing facilities limits fish consumption to a very few locations
and even there supplies are irregular and of poor quality.
45.       Once fish is brought ashore an auctioneer sells it on behalf of the
owner of the vessel for which he collects a commission of 5 percent of the
sales value (10 percent in Hodeidah). The auctioneer usually establishes
lasting relationships with a number of vessel owners whom he commits to this
relationship through the extension of credit and other services. The tradi-
tional auction system is quite efficient as it allows fishermen to dispose of
their catch rather quickly but does not always secure the highest return to
the fishermen. It allows the auctioneer to purchase the catch himself at
a depressed price only to resell it at a profit when prices are higher during
the remainder of the market day. The lack of adequate storage facilities
at regional fish landing sites causes prices to fluctuate widely with varying
catch sizes.  Provision of chill rooms for short term storage to which fisher-
men and fish merchants should have equal access would improve income distribu-
tion within the fisheries, sector and should stablize the price of fish. Some
of the fish caught in YAR waters is sold in neighboring countries.
46.       Probably the most serious limitations in YAR's fisheries sector
are the standards of the existing fish marketing facilities. The entire
delivery system from the point of landing to the fish's ultimate destination
is inadequate in many respects. The conditions of YAR's wholesale and retail
outlets are uniformly below acceptable hygienic standards. Fish deteriorates



- 12 -
rapidly and when finally sold, is usually in poor, even unsafe, condition.
Any effort to improve and increase fish consumption in YAR has to be focused
on building an adequate distribution and marketing system.
Fisheries Credit
47.       The Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB), established by the government
in 1976, serves as the major agricultural credit institution for the whole
country. It is the credit channel for all five IDA-financed agricultural
development projects. The ACB is one of three specialized financial insti-
tutions in YAR which offers preferential lending rates to its customers. YAR
has for some time had negative real rates of interest but as a result of
continuous dialogue with IDA, the government has recently raised those rates
drastically. However, the rates are still negative though substantially less
so than in the past, with the prospect of further improvement in the situation
as the rate of inflation slows down over the next few years. l/ In any event,
the government has agreed to periodically review the interest rates of ACB,
together with IDA (Section 3.09, Development Credit Agreement). ACB recently
diversified its lending operations by extending loans to the fisheries sector.
After a period of resistance by the traditional sources of credit in this
market, ACB seems to have established itself among fishermen as a welcome
source of medium term loans for vessels and fishing gear at low interest rates.
Still, ACB's operations in the sector remain limited and many fishermen are
left with no recourse but to borrow at high rates of interest from traditional,
informal sources of credit dominated by merchants and middlemen with vested
interest in the fisheries sector, to meet their funding needs. The project
therefore provides credit through the ACB to alleviate the fishermen's present
inadequate financing situation (para. 68).
Fisheries Administration and Government Policy
48.       Until recently, government involvement in the fisheries sector has
been negligible. However, a growing awareness of the sector's potential has
gradually developed. In preparation for a major development effort to be led
by the proposed project, a Department of Fisheries (DOF) had been established
within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and became operational in November
1979. The DOF will be responsible for the formulation of policy guidelines
and will act as an advisory unit to the Minister of Agriculture on fisheries-
related matters. Furthermore, the government has recently established a
General Corporation for the Development of Fish Resources (GCDFR), a public
sector organization with financial and administrative independence that will
have full responsibility for the project and for all aspects involved in the
development of the fisheries sector of YAR and as such will own, operate and
maintain the government's investments in the fisheries sector. These insti-
tutional efforts are an encouraging sign. However, given the government's
lack of experience in fisheries administration, it will take time before these
1/   Since negotiations were completed and after the printing of the Appraisal
Report, we have learned that on April 10, 1980 the government raised the
interest rates of the ACB further by two percent to a maximum of 12.5
percent. This increase is not expected to affect in any way the fisher-
men's incentive to borrow under the project.



- 13 -
organizations can develop the required capabilities to provide meaningful
services to the fisheries sector. Major institution-building efforts will
therefore be a key undertaking of the proposed project.
49.       The government's policy aims primarily at developing the productive
potential of the country's small-scale artisanal fishermen and creating an
efficient distribution and marketing system through which larger quantities
of fish of high quality can be channelled to the country's main inland con-
sumption centers. Based on past experience the government has turned down a
number of offers by foreign fishing concerns to exploit the country's fish
resources, in particular shrimp, with a fleet of industrial vessels. As the
government is fully aware of the fact that an industrial fisheries sector in
YAR could only be operated and maintained with massive support from expatriate
expertise, no plans exist at present to industrialize the sector.
50.       FAO/UNDP has provided YAR with some limited technical assistance
during the last few years; a fisheries advisor is working in the MOA and a
master fisherman is assigned to the FAO/UNDP Fisheries Training Demonstration
Center at Hodeidah.
IDA Lending Strategy
51.       IDA's lending strategy for fisheries in YAR is to support the
government's declared policy in this sector, which is primarily to develop
the productive potential of the artisanal fishermen and develop an efficeint
fish distribution and marketing system. Investments in traditional, small-
scale fisheries should reach large segments of the fisheries sector that so
far have been bypassed by national development efforts. IDA's proposed assis-
tance would focus on improving the income and economic well-being of small-
scale fishermen through investments in infrastructure and fishing technology
that are adapted to the sector's present absorptive capacity. The increase in
output would also enable exploitation of an indigenous resource and decrease
the country's dependence on imported food-items and over the long run help
open export possibilities for shrimp. Technical assistance and training
will form integral components to assist in alleviating the acute shortage of
trained manpower needed for the efficient management of the sector. The
proposed project is IDA's first involvement in fisheries in YAR.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
52.       The project was identified by a FAO/World Bank CP mission in 1975,
which recommended that three individual feasibility studies covering the
areas of fish marketing, survey of the country's shrimp resources and identi-
fication of suitable fish and shrimp landing sites, be undertaken. Because
of funding problems, it took four years to complete the three studies. An
FAO/World Bank CP mission visited YAR in May 1979 to prepare an integrated
comprehensive first fisheries development project using the three studies.
On the basis of the three studies and the CP's preparation report, the project
was appraised in September 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington from



- 14 -
April 7 to April 10, 1980. The YAR delegation was headed by His Excellency,
Abdul Wahab Mahmoud, Minister of Agriculture. A staff appraisal report
entitled "Fisheries Development Project", No. 2859-YAR, dated April 15, 1980,
is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Maps of the
project and a layout of the proposed marine and associated shore facilities
are attached to this report.
Project Objectives and Description
53.       The project seeks to increase the domestic production and consump-
tion of high quality animal protein from the country's fish resources,
to increase the income and economic well-being of YAR's artisanal fishermen as
alternatives to emigration, and reduce dependence on imported food. The
project also seeks to begin the exploitation of the country's shrimp resources
that hold excellent long term export possibilities. It also aims at creating
an institutional framework through which supporting services can efficiently
be delivered to the country's fishermen. These objectives will be achieved
through the inclusion of the following components under the project: (a) an
artisanal fishing port with related shore facilities at Hodeidah; (b) an
artisanal fish and shrimp landing pier with processing and storage facilities
at Khawbah; (c) shore-based fish handling, marketing and storage facilities at
Khawkhah and Mocha; (d) inland fish distribution and marketing facilities at
Sanaa, Taiz, Ibb and Dhamar; (e) credit facilities for sambuk trawlers,
improved fishing vessels, fishing gear, marine engines and fish transport
vehicles; (f) a coastal road link; and (g) technical assistance and training.
Artisanal Fishing Port at Hodeidah
54.       At Hodeidah, an artisanal fishing port will be constructed to
provide a sheltered anchorage for fishing vessels, a berth at which vessels
can unload their catch and obtain supplies of ice, water, and fuel, together
with facilities for fish handling and storage, as well as a small boatyard
and related shore facilities. The site for the new port adjoins the existing
fish market and the village where most of the fishermen live. At present
sambuks are moored off-shore and the catch is laboriously carried ashore by
hand. The new port will allow fishing out of Hodeidah year round. Government
acquisition of land for the proposed fishing port is a condition of effective-
ness of the credit (Section 6.01(b), Development Credit Agreement).
Artisanal Fish Landing Pier at Khawbah
55.       At Khawbah, about 100 km north of Hodeidah, a pier will be con-
structed for the landing, handling and processing of both fish and shrimp, as
well as a service building and a boat shed. Khawbah lies within the shelter
of Kamran islands, so that expensive breakwater protection is not as essential.
Government acquisition of land for the fish landing pier is a condition of
effectiveness of the credit (Section 6.01(b), Development Credit Agreement).
Shore Facilities at Khawkhah and Mocha
56.       At the two most important fishing centers south of Hodeidah, at
Khawkhah and Mocha, shore-based facilities for handling, auctioning and
storage of fish will be established. Because of its exposed location, con-
struction of major marine facilities would be too expensive to be justifiable
for Khawkhah. Within the existing Mocha port there is sufficient space for



- 15 -
that community's fishing fleet. Government acquisition of land for the pro-
posed shore facilities at Khawkhah and Mocha are conditions of effectiveness
of the credit (Section 6.01(b), Development Credit Agreement).
Inland Fish Markets
57.       Fish marketing and storage facilities will be constructed in YAR's
major inland consumption centers, Sanaa, Taiz, Ibb, and Dhamar. These
facilities will form the operational basis for the project's fish marketing
development strategy as they will serve major portions of YAR's population.
Government acquisition of land for the proposed inland fish markets is a
condition of disbursenment for this component (Schedule 1, Development Credit
Agreement).
Credit Facilities for Sambuk Trawlers, Improved Fishing Vessels, Outboard
Engines, Fishing Gear and Fish Transport Vehicles
58.       An important feature of the project is the institutional arrangement
for financing which will be made available through the Agricultural Credit
Bank (ACB) for the purchase of: (a) sambuk trawlers, improved fishing
vessels, and houris. The project will finance 30 fully equipped wooden
hull sambuk trawlers of a design based on the traditional Yemeni sambuk
(modifications, like a wide transom stern and a stronger engine base, will
provide the vessel with proper trawling capabilities), 60 fully equipped
sambuks of an improved type that would have a reinforced wooden hull to
accommodate a more powerful engine, and 30 houris for areas where marine
conditions presently allow only houri fishing and (b) fishing gear, marine
engines and fish transport vehicles. To alleviate the present shortage of
proper fishing gear and outboard engines for small fishing craft, credit will
be provided for netting of different mesh sizes, hook, lines, etc. as well as
100 outboard engines ranging from 9 to 15 hp; and to facilitate the transport
of increased quantities of fish of substantially higher quality to inland fish
markets, the project will provide six insulated and three refrigerated trucks
with capacities varying from 1.5 to 3 tons.
Road Link Between Khawbah and the New Jizan-Hodeidah Road
59.       In order to provide Khawbah, which is an important fishing center
but is economically isolated, with access to the country's main road system
and main consumption centers, a 32 km road link will be constructed between
Khawbah, the site of the fish landing pier and shrimp base, and the Jizan-
Hodeidah road that is presently under construction.
Technical Assistance and Training
60.       Technical assistance and training will be provided under the project
before and during implementation at a cost of $2.6 million excluding price
contingencies for soil investigations and preparation of detailed designs for
fish landing sites ($400,000) and for supervision of construction ($900,000).
This includes a range of fishing expertise to be provided at a cost of $1.13
million to enable upgrading of fishing technology and the marketing and dis-
tribution of fish. Five experts (a project manager, a boat builder, a master
fisherman, a fish marketing specialist and a fisheries credit specialist) and



- 16 -
a naval architect who will assist in the construction of two prototype trawlers
(para. 74) will spend a total of 219 man-months under the project at a man-
month cost of $5,350. In addition, six experienced fishermen from a developing
country that has an established tradition of small boat bottom trawling, the
appropriate technique for coastal shrimping, will spend a total of 72 man-
months in YAR at a man-month cost of $1,500 to provide on-the-job training and
demonstration to local fishermen.
61.       One of the factors that will most critically affect the success of
the project will be the availability of technically qualified personnel to
administer, operate and maintain the various project operations. Since all
commercial project operations will be undertaken by the private sector, it
will be the responsibility of those interests involved to make their own
staffing arrangements. Special training opportunities, including training
overseas, will be provided for Yemenis who would staff the GCDFR. The team of
expatriate experts will provide on-the-job training to their Yemeni counter-
parts and will work, whenever feasible, as part-time teachers at the Fisheries
Demonstration Training Center of MOA.
Project Cost and Financing
62.       The total cost of the project, exclusive of duties and taxes (which
are not applicable to development projects in YAR), is estimated at $30.3
million including contingencies. Of this 69 percent or approximately $21.0
million represents the foreign exchange component. Price contingencies are
based on an annual rate of domestic inflation in YAR of 30 percent during
1980, 27 percent during 1981, 22 percent during 1982 and 20 percent there-
after, and on international rates of 10.5 percent during 1980, 9 percent
during 1981, 8 percent during 1982 and 7 percent thereafter.
63.      The proposed IDA credit of $17.0 million representing 56 percent
of total project cost or 81 percent of the foreign exchange cost would finance
the project's entire foreign exchange cost with the exception of the project's
equipment components valued at $4.0 million like ice making machines, cooling
equipment, fish transport vehicles, etc. which would be financed on a parallel
basis by an external source, most likely Denmark. The government would con-
tribute $8.0 million equivalent which would represent 80 percent of the local
costs. Participating fishermen would contribute $1.3 million equivalent repre-
senting 20 percent of the total value of fishing vessels and related equipment
to be provided under the project. The signing of a co-financing agreement
with the external donor is a condition of effectiveness of the credit
(Section 6.01(a), Development Credit Agreement).
Project Execution
64.       The newly established GCDFR which is responsible for all fisheries
development activities in YAR will be responsible for implementation. A
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established within the GCDFR to
supervise and coordinate all project implementation activities. The PIU will
be headed by an internationally recruited project manager who will be assisted
by adequate technical and administrative support staff, including an experienced
accountant. During the project implementation stage, the project manager will
also act as GCDFR's general manager. The PIU will coordinate with various



- 17 -
government departments, construction companies, consultants, etc; supervise,
with the assistance of engineering consultants, the various construction
components of the project, the construction of fishing vessels, and carry out
all procurement. Major civil works will be carried out by foreign contractors.
The government has agreed to establish the PIU not later than September 30,
1980 and to appoint engineering consultants with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association (Sections 3.02 and 3.03, Development Credit
Agreement).
65.       The GCDFR will own all infrastructure investments, with the exception
of the inland fish markets, and will offer those facilities that will provide
commercially exploitable services like bunkering, production and storage of
ice, shrimp processing, etc. to the private sector on a competitive basis.
The revenues received from the lease of these facilities will enable GCDFR to
finance the operation and maintenance of those facilities for which no private
sector interests exist, like the port facilities of Hodeidah and the fish
landing pier in Khawbah. Given the public sector's lack of technical,
administrative and managerial capabilities on the one hand, and the existence
of a vigorous commercial community in the private sector on the other, this
would be the most effective way of assuring the economic utilization of
commercially viable investments made by the public sector.
66.       The Ministry of Municipalities will have overall responsibility
for the establishment of the fish markets proposed for Sanaa, Taiz, lbb and
Dhamar. Actual execution of the works and the operation and maintenance of
the proposed fish markets will, however, rest with the respective local
municipalities which, because of their local authority, will be in a much
stronger position than the GCDFR to supervise and enforce the hygienic and
quality standards set for marketing of fish.
67.       The Highway Authority, an autonomous government organization under
the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Public Works, would, under contract with
the MOA, undertake the design, construction and subsequent maintenance of the
32 km road link between Khawbah and the newly built Jizan-Hodeidah road
(Section 3.04, Development Credit Agreement).
68.       The provision of credit for sambuk trawlers, fishing vessels,
fishing gear, outboard engines and fish transport vehicles will be executed by
the ACB which will, with the assistance of an expatriate credit advisor
provided under the project, execute the project's onlending operation (Section
3.05, Development Credit Agreement). As ACB has only very limited experience
in lending to the fisheries sector and needs to build up its lending capability
to handle operations as proposed by the project, the loan funds will be
provided to ACB by the government in the form of equity. The government has
agreed to take the necessary steps to increase the authorized capital of ACB
to allow further contributions, including the credit component of the project,
to be made which would allow ACB to meet the credit requirements of the
project as well as the expected continued increase in its overall lending
operations. The government has also agreed to formulate alternatives for
covering the special credit risks involved in lending to fisheries. In the
meantime, ACB will set up a special provision for bad debts against uninsured



- 18 -
ACB financed fishing vessels and equipment. Fishermen participating in the
credit scheme will contribute 20 percent of the cost of the investment for
which they receive a loan from ACB from their own resources.
Fish Production and Marketing
69.       The project is expected to raise YAR's total fish production to
about 21,000 tons annually, representing an increase of more than 83 percent
from present production. The production of shrimp is projected to reach
560 tons annually. The various fish landing sites will benefit from the
project in varying degrees, depending on their present level of development
and access to fish consumption centers. In Hodeidah and Khawkhah, where
fisheries are relatively well developed, increases in fish landings of some
40 percent and 55 percent respectively should result. In Khawbah where the
fish landing pier, the shrimp base, and the road link will be constructed,
production is expected to increase by 260 percent. This exceptional growth in
Khawbah reflects the removal of constraints such as the lack of access, which
presently prevent this important fishing community from utilizing its full
potential.
70.       Demand for fish is strong in YAR, but major regional differences
exist in consumption patterns. The project's marketing development strategy
will concentrate on establishing fish as part of the regular diet, partic-
ularly in areas where consumption at present is lowest. The location of
consumption centers along the main road system for which fish markets are
envisaged under the project will facilitate the expeditious transport and
distribution of fish. The shrimp resource study has established a demand
for shrimp in YAR. Shrimp will initially be produced mainly to supply the
domestic market, but as experience in shrimping develops and larger quantities
become available, export of shrimp to neighboring oil exporting countries will
be considered.
Prices
71.       Fish prices, although high by international standards, compare
favorably with prices of other forms of animal protein in YAR. The national
average retail price for fish is about $3.10/kg which is considerably lower
than the prices of mutton ($14.50/kg), veal ($10.0/kg), and domestically
produced chicken ($7.80/kg). The only meat which is within the same price
range as fish is imported broiler chicken which sells at about $2.80/kg.
During 1976-1979, fish prices have climbed at about twice the rate of other
consumer goods because the demand has grown faster than supply. Short-term
price fluctuations caused by variations in fish landings will be stabilized
through the provision in the project of adequate storage facilities which will
help to regulate the quantities of fish being offered at the market. It is
estimated that the doubling of fish supplies as a result of the project would
cause the average price of fish to drop by 15 percent.
Cost Recovery
72.       The cost of sambuk trawlers, fishing vessels, fishing gear, outboard
engines and fish transport vehicles will be fully recovered through the credit
facility administered by ACB. A system to recover the investment cost of



- 19 -
jointly used major infrastructure components of the project, such as the fish-
ing port in Hodeidah, that represent a high percentage of total project cost
would be very difficult to organize and practically impossible to enforce.
Insisting on strict cost recovery, of the marine facilities for example
from individual users, will most likely cause fishermen to bypass, whenever
possible, project financed infrastructure and return to their traditional way
of landing and handling fish. Since the project will generate sufficient
economic benefits to recover investment costs several times over the life
of the project, no user charges need be imposed on the use of public infra-
structure.
Procurement
73.       Procurement under the credit will be mainly through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. Procurement of
equipment items to be financed, on a parallel basis, by the other external
co-financier will be according to its own procedures. IDA financed items
(amounting to about $1.4 million) for which credit facilities will be made
available through ACB will be procured by the GCDFR under competitive bidding
advertised locally or through international shopping. Local goods and services
will be procured in accordance with government procedures which are acceptable
to IDA.
Disbursement and Retroactive Financing
74.       The IDA credit will be disbursed over five years.  Retroactive
financing of up to $430,000 is provided for the preparation of detailed
designs including soil investigations for the Khawbah and Hodeidah marine
works, and the design and construction of two proto-type sambuk trawlers
(Schedule 1, Development Credit Agreement). Both these activities will start
before project implementation. Disbursement will be made on the basis of
(i) 75 percent of expenditures for civil works; (ii) 100 percent of foreign
exchange expenditures for sambuk trawlers, improved fishing vessels and houris
excluding engines which are proposed to be financed by the co-financier; (iii)
100 percent of foreign expenditures for technical assistance and training; and
(iv) 100 percent of the foreign exchange expenditures and 70 percent of local
expenditures of the establishment cost of GCDFR. The estimated schedule of
disbursements is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
Justification, Benefits and Risks
75.       As a major national fisheries development effort, the project
will benefit directly and indirectly large segments of the country's popula-
tion. The principal beneficiaries will be among those who are actively
engaged in fish production, distribution and marketing. The benefits
of the project will however be shared to a great extent by the consumers who
will be provided with substantially increased quantities of relatively
inexpensive animal protein of high quality. Total employment created by the
project has been estimated at 1,000 new full-time jobs. The lack of economic



- 20 -
opportunity within the fisheries sector has caused many Yemeni fishermen to
leave their profession and, in many cases, their country in search for more
rewarding alternative jobs. The project will rectify the sector's structural
deficiencies and through the creation of new investment opportunities will
reverse the present trend of emigration out of the sector.
76.       Traditionally in YAR the catch of a fishing vessel is divided into
three shares of which the owner of the vessel claims one for himself and
one for the vessel; the remaining share is divided among the crew. Assuming
that at full development this system will still remain in force, the average
income of the Yemeni hired fishermen will increase by 30 percent to about
$3,160 annually. The gross income of vessel owners, who are favored by the
existing system, will increase by about 60 percent to about $7,200 annually.
If the present trend of structural changes within the fisheries sector caused
by increasing labor shortages continues, then it will be realistic to assume
that by the time of full development of the project the system of income
distribution in this sector would change. Some of the productivity gains that
will have been obtained from introducing more efficient fishing vessels will
then be redistributed from vessel owners to hired fishermen.
77.       The economic rate of return on the project's investments including
physical contingencies, is estimated at 22 percent. The sensitivity analysis
shows that the project remains a sound investment even with substantial
variations in key assumptions and parameters. For instance, the cost of
infrastructure could almost double before the rate of return of the project
would drop below the opportunity cost of capital (10 percent).
78.       The project faces four principal risks.  The first relates to the
fact that some of the project's objectives can only be realized with a posi-
tive response from the private sector since the project is designed to have
a minimum claim on the public sector's limited resources and depends on the
private sector's initiative and entrepreneurship. Efforts will have to be
made throughout project implementation by GCDFR, the ACB, and the PIU to
elicit a positive response from the private sector.
79.       A second potential risk of the project relates to the introduction
of new fishing methods. Given the usually conservative nature of traditional
trades, a considerable effort must be made by all entities engaged in the
project to demonstrate the superior productivity of the sambuk trawler and
the improved fishing vessels to the Yemeni fishermen.
80.       The third set of risks of the project relates to the expected
increase in productivity. There are obviously no measures that can force
self-employed labor to work any more than it wishes. Further, the expected
increase in catch rates resulting from the use of improved vessels and equipment
may not materialize. The GCDFR should carefully monitor catch rates of the
new vessels to ensure that their full potential is being realized. In the
event that increased catch productivity falls below target, investigations
should be undertaken by the GCDFR to identify the causes of the low productivity
and increased field training would be provided to ameliorate the situation.



- 21 -
81.       The fourth set of risks of the project relates to the expected
increase in consumption of fish. While present consumption patterns indicate
a strong demand for fish, efforts have to be made, particularly in areas where
fish consumption is low, to promote fish as an increasing part of the people's
diet. The government has agreed to take measures such as the utilization of
existing extension workers, to familiarize consumers, especially the women,
with the nutritional values of fish and encourage them to increasingly intro-
duce fish into the daily diet.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Association's Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
83.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
referred to in the Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effective-
ness are: (i) government acquisition of land for the proposed fishing port at
Hodeidah, Khawbah fish landing pier and related shore facilities, and Khawkhah
and Mocha shore facilities; and (ii) the signing of a loan agreement(s) between
the government and other external co-financiers for an amount of about $4
million equivalent (Section 6.01, Development Credit Agreement).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
84.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 28, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                               Amex I
1 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEHCN. ARAB REPUBLIC O - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SRUT
LA"                       YDMN, ARAB REPIUBLIC OF      ~~~~RlnERNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED,A)IPRAGRS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. IN.)              YEMEN, A7AB REPUILIC OF            - MOST RICENT ISTIATE)
TOAL            195:K.0                                                  SAM          SAKE     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      15.2                                  MDST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOKC
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb       REION tc   GROUP /d   GROUP
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     ..           ..     580.0           1532.5      209.6       467.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        7.0         17.0      41.0            838.1       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       3.6          4.4       5.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  3.4           6.0       7.9             49.0       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          20.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        18.0         23.0      26.0             19.9       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. 1M. ACRICULTURAL LAND    239.0        287.0      329.0             99.0      252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.3        44.1       45.0             45.6       43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                          54.0        53.2       52.0             51.4       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7          2.7       3.0              2.8        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9          1.8       1.9              3.0        2.4         2.7
URBAN                                ..          7.5       7.3              5.2        4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.0         49.0      49.0             43.7       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      29.0         26.0      19.0             13.5       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          3.5       3.5              3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        ..               ..       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             ..         85.0      93.0             90.8       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    82.0        71.0       83.0             99.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           65.0         62.0      58.3             63.6       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..         15.8/f    14.1             16.0       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      55.0         38.0      31.0             15.9       18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.0         43.0       47.0             53.8       49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..            ..        ..               ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                .,          4,0       4.0             56.4       26.3        34.4
URBAN                                *          45.0      30.0             83.4       58.5        57.9
RURAL                                ..          2.0       2.0             34.3       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        .,             59.1       16.0        40.8
URBAN                                ..           ..        ''             78.2       65.1        71.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             26.4        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..     31340.0   18770.0            3677.0    11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..           ..   7220.0            1730.6     5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            3300.0           ..   2060.0             577.0     1417.1       726.5
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..      197.3       272.7
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..     2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..             21.8       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..       5.9              5.8        5.3         5.4
URBAN                                .,           ,,       4.2/1            5.5        4.9         5.1
RURAL                                ..           ..       6.0              6.0        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                *            .'       3.0
URBAN                                ..           ..       1.8/g
RURAL                                                      3.1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             45.1       22.5        28.1
URBAN                                -            ..      56.5/g           67.9       17.8        45.1
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..          ..        9.9



- 23 -                                            Annex I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN   ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF       REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  8.0         10.0      26.0             85.0         63.3       82.7
MALE                  14.0        18.0       45.0            103.7        79.1        87.3
FEMALE                 0.4         2.0        7.0            66.0         48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  0.1          1.0       4.0             27.6         16.7       21.4
MALE                    ..         1.0        8.0             39.2        22.1        33.0
FEMALE                  ..         0.1        1.0            20.8         10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)    ..           2.0       2.0              4.3          5.6        9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            45.0         51.0      38.0             32.6         41.0       34.1
SECONDARY                          17.0         24.0      21.0             23.4         21.7       23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         3.0           ..       13.0            41.4         31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..         ..            16.7          2.8        9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..      13.0            147.9         27.2       76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..         ..            36.0          2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        10.0         *-            17.9          5.3       18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..             2.9          1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)           ..          ..    1140.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    3.8          4.2       4.3              8.6         24.8       29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.2         79.3      76.3             43.0         69.4       62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  6.9          9.0      11.0             23.7         10.0       11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.0         29.1      28.3             26.7         36.9        37.1
MALE                                 57.0         55.1      53.6             46.4         52.4        48.8
FEMALE                                2.3          2.4       2.5              5.1         18.0       20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 ..          ..        2.2              1.8         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..            21.4           ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..         ..            48.6           ..       48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..             5.3           ..        6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..            15.0           ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..           201.3         99.2      241.3
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..           134.2         78.9      136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..           288.6         91.9       179.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      83.0            170.0         54.8      103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            22.9         44.1       24.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..      80.0             31.2         53.9       37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);   /e  Lower Middle Income
(5281-550 per capita, 1976);   If  Av. 1964-66;   /j  Only in the major cities of Sana'a,  Taiz  and  Hodeidah.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 24 -                                                                  Annex I
Page 3 of 5
DEFIRITITNS OF BOAL INiDICATHRS
Note.;  Although the data  re drasn from sources genera ly judged the moat  uthoritati-e ad reliable, it nhcul4 alas be Dnted that they may not be intern.-
tionally comp-rable because of the iaok of standardized defiritiona  nd  -oncepta used by different countries tn collecting the dta. The dta are, nonetheles,
useful to describe orders Of magnitude, indicate trends,  nd charaterize certain mjor differences between co-ntriea
The ndjsted grp a         uges f   elah indicto  ae ppltiaison -eigated geometric means, excludig the entreme vlues of the indicator ad the mt ppulted
coutry is e:ch grouP.  The to lack cf data, gecup avrages cf all indicators for Capital Surplus Oil  oportere and of indicator  of Access tc Water and Excenta
Disposnl, Housing, Income Distribution  nd Poverty for other country groups are ppslation-meighted geometric meas without exclusion of tbe eatreee vaiues ad
the most populated country   Since the coverage of oountris among the indicators depends on avilability of data end is sot unifor, cauticn most be exercised
in relating averages of one indicator to another   These averges are msptly useful as approximations of  expected" values when compring the  -aluen of one
indicator at a time among the country and reference groups.
IARD AREA (thousand sq.krc.)                                                           Access to Escreta Dip1sosal (percent of population) - total  urban  sad rural -
Total - Tota  sur-fce ares co-prising land area and inaind eaters.                         er  of people (total, urban, and rtral) nerved by nooreta disposal an
Agricultural - Moot recent eoti=ate Of agricultural ares used temporarily              percentages of their respectivn populations.  Eoreta disposal map include
or perm nently for crops, pacturea, =aret and kitchen gardens or to                  the collection and disposal, sith or vithout treatment, of human eurrete
lie fro..                                                                            and wate-water by cater-borne systems or the use of pit privies and  -uldlar
installations.
UNP PER CAPITA (61$) - IIP per copita estimates at current market prices,               Posqlaitlon per Sqwsioian - Population divided by onuber of practicing phys.iiona
calculated by cane coovorsion method ax World Rank Atlac (1976-78 basis);              qualified fr-O  a medical sChool at university level.
1961, 1i7,  _nd 1978 dsta                                                            Pcp,liation per Horsing Person - Population divided by outer of practicing  ale
ENERGY CONSUpIPTION PER CAPITA - Annul -n       ti    of co     il eergy                  nd fc,.le graduate nurses, practical cursen, and assistant oursec
(coaI and ligitic, petroleun, catural gas and hydrc-, surea  and gZr -               Population per hospital Red - totul urban, nd meal - PopuIltioc (total, urban,
thcrl elcoorbity) do kblogrn  Of coal eqoivcoet per capita; 196                        and rural) divided by their reape-tive number Of hospital beds available in
1970, nd 1976 dte,                                                                     public  nd private general and spec-ili-ed hostpital and  ehabilitios vcitors.
os.Pitals are establiebh-ot  permanetly otaffod by at leatios- phycoia.i
P0PJIATION ANS  VITAL STATISTICS                                                         kstablishsents providing principally cu-stdial cae ore cot incuded. Rur1a
Total P.pulstis. Hid-Year (xilli-os) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970,  nd                   bospitlo, houevcr, include hiath snd madical  eoters not permanently staffed
1977 dsta                                                                            by a physici n (but by a medical assistant,  urse, midoife, etc.) ohbih offer
Urban Popualtiai  (percent Of total) - RPtio of urban to totd populmtioo;              ia-patient  -ccoenodatioc mad provide a li=ited vange Of  edilcal focilitbei
diffevect defiritions Of urban area  sop effect comp-ability of data              Adrdssiona per Hospital Pod - Totl naunber Of ad=is io.s to or discharges fron
axotg countries  i9yi, 1970, cud 1975 data                                           hospitals divided by the  nuber Of beds.
Populat ion Pro)j ect icenc
Population in year 2i00  - Correct population projeticca are based In            HOUSING
1975 total populetio  by sge  nd  -ex and their mortality and fcrtility         Average lice of Household (persons per household) - total, urban  ad  -urel -
eatec.  rvj ctioc paract-ers foe mcorality rates compri se of theer                A household .op-i oto of a group of individusls obo ohere living quartero und
levelc socuMiog life expe-ctcoy at birth increasing  ith country 0                 their main aela.  A boarder or lodger asy or soy act be included is the
per capete inco=e ievel, snd female life expectan-y stabilicing at                 houschold for statietical Purposes.
77.5 ye-e-.  Thr paranetcro foe fertility rate a1lo have three levels            Average number of persono per rooe - total urban, and rural - Average number
a-uiog decline in fertility according to income Ic-el and pant                     of persons pee roo= in all urban, and  rurl - occupied conveotiocal dvellingo,
foxily planning performance. Pad  country ib then assigned one of these            reDpectively   rwelinge occlude no_-peenaneot structures and unocc.pied pI rto.
nine combinations Of mortslity  nod fertility trende for projection              Access to  Electricity (percent of dvellings) - toeta 1 rban, nod rurai - -Cb-
purposes.                                                                          veotioa.l dwellings with electricity in living q.urters asperctage of
Stationary populeti-o  - In .  tationary population there is no grouth               total, uban, nd coral dvelliingsrespeatively.
eioce tbe birth rote io equsl to the death rate, ad also the age
structure venaino cOntant. This is achieved only after fertility rates         EDfjCATION
declioe to the replaremect level of unit set reproductien rate, open             Adjusted Enrullarat Ratios
each ge_eration of I ouce replaces itself eoactly.  Thb  stationary popu-          Primary school - total, male and female -  reose total, eale and ema-e enroll-
latioc oibe vas estimated cn thi  b-ii  cf the projected characteriatic-             nest of all ages at the primary lod  no percentages Or espec.tive p-iasry
of the popoletico  io the year 200P,  nd the pate of decllne Of fertility           -schol-age populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but
rate to repl_ce=ent level,                                                           adjusted foe diffoerat lecgthb  of priamiy education; for countries vith
Year otationary population id reached - The year uhen stationary population            universal education enroll=ent may exceed 100 perceot sicce some pupils
eizc ins been reached.                                                               are beloe or above the offiolol achool age.
Population Den-ity                                                                     Secondary school - total, male and female - Computed a- ab,v;  -eoondery
Per sn. kA. - Hid-year popolation per square kilceeter (100 hectares) of               education requires et le-st four yearn Of approved primary i-scructioc;
tOca stees                                                                           pro-ides general vostional, or teechee traaibig lntructtionu for pupil
Per 0. An. agricultural land - Computed a- sbove foe agricultural land                 aaually of 12 to 17 ycars Of age; correapondence cuesc -      are g-cerally
ucly.                                                                                occluded.
Population Age Structure (perc-t) - Children (0-14 years), sorkiog-sge                Vocatiot al e.rollue1 t (percent of -e-odesy) - Voc-ti-oal isotitetiuno  .nclude
15-6i1 years), and retired  :h5 years and over) ac peercctages of aid-year             technical, isductrial, or other programs ohich operate idependently or an
population; 1960, 1970, nod 1977 data.                                                 departncats Of eco-ndary institutions.
Pyarssati   r     l ate (percent) - tct.1 - A nnual gowth rates of total aid-          Pupil-te-aher        p an d  seco Prie  d   --ndry - Total ctudots ourolld ia
pear po-iat.Ica  for 195i-hl, 1976G-70, nod 1970-77.                                   primary nod oeoondary lec diti,edd by n-be-  of teabers Ic the  orr
Popuati,on Orotth Rate (per-ct) - urban - Ancual grovth rates of urban                   spondicg levels.
populations for 1953-hi, 1960-70, and 1970-75.                                       Adult literary ratc (percent) - Liter-te adults (able to read and -rite) s
Crude  ilrth ROto (per thicca-d) - Ansuel live birthi  per thousand of aid-              a percentage of total adult populatio  aged 15 years and over.
year populetion; I9Wo, 1970, and 1977 cata.
Crude Death Rase (per thocoand) - Anoual de-ths per thoosand oI mid-y-ar           CONSUMPLONP
population; 1910, 1970, nd 1977 date.                                              Passenger C-rs (per thbusand population) - Pasoenger care co=prise rotor cers
Croso Reprodu-tion bate - Aterage  unumer of d-gbohcrs a woman sill boar               seatiog less than eight p            -erocs; ecolud-s anb -lance, hearseo and etlitary
in her noroal reproductive periud if sheexpericnces peeset age-                      vhiles.
specific fertility rsteo; usosl- y five-ye-r co-rages ending in 1911,              Redi RPe eivers (pr thousand population) - All typeo of re-civora for radio
1970, and 1975                                                                       broadoc-to to general publib  pee th-usand of population; e-cludes u-licensed
FPoiby 'Pluning - A-ccptor, Ancual (thousands)   Anual unuber Of                       receivers in countries and is yeas .hen regi-tration oIf  sdie) cetsac in
ucoeptor-  of birth-co-trol  deviceo coder suapice-  of national ffsily      n        ffeot; data for -oco It sinre  ra  c.t be co-po-1,1 i        .-t     trieo
pitocing grogr_n.                                                                     bolislhed licensg.
isedly P-iog - Uers (percent of married women) - Percentage of married              TV Receivers (per thouTand populacien) - TV receivers for ircodceot to general
womeno  obchild-learing age (15-i4 years)  hon  use birth-control devioco            public per thoasand population; e-cladea upliceased T   -ecei_ers in cocntrivs
to a    -l married .omen in sane ego group.                                          and in years when r-giotratios of TV sets eon in effect.
Newspaper Circulation (per th-ousnd po .lation) -  htos_ the ucerage circulatio-
FOOD AND NU-TRITION                                                                      Of 'daly geceral interest ne-spaper', defined no s periodical p" blicatlon
Indeo of Food Prod-ctioc Per CapiLta :199-71-Ill) - .ndex of per onpets                devoted primarily to recording general ness.  It is coasideed to be 'dily
sonoul production of all food bo-andities. Produ-tlon excludes ceed and              if it appear   t 1eat four tli=   x seek
feed snd  is en calendar year besie.  Comosdities cover primary goods              Cinema Annual Attecdanc-  per Capita see Yiar - Ma  ecd the  unub-r of tickets
(e.g. saguvacor instead of ougur) ohich are edible and co-tai  -utrients            sod during the year, i-cluding nidisuions to drive-ic ci-cane and  obile
(e.g. cofee and to  -e  -cuded).  Aggregate productioc of each -osstry                t
is baced on ational syrige producer price seights.
Per capita sopply of calories (percent of r_quiremeats) - Computed from          LAPOR FORCE
-n-rgy equivailct of vet food oupplies available in country per capita           Totel Labor Force (thoussnds) - poc icmally active persons, inclodieg arced
per day. Available -upplies co-pri-e doometic production, imports less             forces nod unemployed bet e-cluding hbuse--ios, students, etc. Defiolit i,is
exportt, and ohanges in stoc.  Not supplies occlude anixal feed, seeds,            in various c.uctries are I.c c  paroble.
quantit.s usedd isg, ad  oes  i  ditribotio. Requlre-                            PemAle (percent) -       Irain lbor frocI   as peecentage of total labor feroe.
seta over estimated by FAP b-acd on physiolgi-cal neede for f   oal                             er t) - Labor force i  farming, forestry, hunting cd
notivity and h-cith considering ccvi re-entol texperature, body ceights,           fishiag an pecentage of total ibsor force.
age snd coo divtributio-s  f pepuletion, and allowing 10 percent for             Industry (pcreet) - Labor foroc ic mining,  cnstsootion  manoractur-Ig and
saste at household level.                                                          elr'e     y O oter and gas as pecentagef total labor force.
ceI "apit, supply of proteii  grano per day) - Protei co-tent :f per               Paritcipatioc ROto (percet) - total  male, nd focale - Participation or
capita net suppiy of food pee dsp. Net supply of food in defined as                aetivity rates  re computed  s total, male, sd fe=sle lhor force aI  per-
shove. Requirc=ents for all cotcries eatbiliohed by USDA provide foe a             centages of total, cal and female populatioo of cis ae   respectively;
=icimim allownoer of 60 grams of totn1 protein per day and 20 grams of             1i6, 1970, and 1975 dats.  Theoe are ILO i purtiolpation rates reflecting
animal and pulse protcic, of ohlch 10 graco ohould be animal protein.               Mge-_en structope of the populati-o, and 1og time troed.  A f-e  etimates
7heoe standards are leowe than thbee of 75 gra-o of total protein -ad               re f-oa national ources.
25 grnu_  ef animal proteic as 00 a-.rrge for tie  orld, proposed by FAO         Ecoanomi Depeodecy RPatlo - Ptie of population under 15 and 65 and over ts
I  the Thlird World Foed Survey.                                                  the labor yfrce I  age group o i15-64 years.
Per capitn protein _upply frre mnixal and pulse - Pr teis supply of food
derived f,. ro  aim1e and puecinen1prdp                                        ING    POISTR.IPR
Child ae(s 1-a') MotaIity Rate (ppr thgiuond) - Acoarl deaths pop thousand           Percent ge  of  Private  Income (both in cash and kind) - Received by richest
in age group 1-4 years, to childre-  in this  ge group; for most level-              5 pecent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and pooreot 40 peecnt
opisg o-ntries dott  d-rived from life tablby                                        of households.
HEALTH                                                                               POV11RTY TARGET GROUPS
lfe Expectancy at hirti (years) - Average cunber of years of life                    Estimated AbLote P verty Income Level (ds  Per capita) - urhba  sod rural -
remaicing so cirth; 1910, 1970  and 1977. data.                                      Ahsoluse poverty iccoma level is chat lnco=e level beloc wbich n ninimal
Icfant Mortality Rate (pe theucand) - Anual deathb  of ibfanct  under one              notritiosally adequate diet plus  oessetial non-food requirements is cot
year of age per thousand lIve births.                                                 effordable.
Acdcss te Safe Water (per-c-t It pIpoIstion  - total, urban, and rural -              Esti-ated Relative Poverty Inome Level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
Nun.er Of people wtotel  -ba, and rural  sith reasonable access ct                    Rural relative poverty income leoel is one-tbird of average per capita
vafecvaterasupply (inclodes tre-ted ourface caters or untreated but                  persoai incom  of the country. Urban level bi  derived fro= the royal level
uocoatuminaced water sodhas tohat from protected borehoir-, springs,                   ith adjoatmeat foe higher cost Of living ic urban areas.
and sanitary wflls) as peeceatages of choir respe-tive populations.  In            Intimated Population helov Absolute Poverty Income tev  (perct) - urban and
an urban area a public fountaie or standpyat lested act more than                     rural - Perceat of popolatioa (urban and rural) who are  'bsoluic poor".
20l moters frDn E house cuy be considered an being withic reasonable
a ces. of that husec. Pa rurl u res nreasonahle aroas so-ld imply
that the ho--si fe or Ie=ers of the hoe-hold do act have to spead a                                                       Bcono=ic and SocIal Dte  Divicioc
diopropoetionote pert of the day in fetching the feilyn cater needs                                                   Economic Analpsic and Projeetions Department
August 1979



Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
- 25 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Mln)                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
1978/79 1,                 (Constant Price>
1978/79 1/        ~1973-79      FY79
(Current Prices)
GNP at Market Prices                      3810                        11        -4
GDP at Market Prices                      2800                         8         9
Gross Domestic Investments                 900                        19        10
Gross National Savings                     524                        13       -40
Exports of GNFS                             56                        -3       -23
Imports of GNFS                           1441                        21        24
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1978/79) j/
Value Added       Resident Labor Force      V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln      %      Thousand         %        US$          %
Agriculture                       1000      38         1450          76        690         50
Industry                           350      14          150           8       2330        170
Services                         1250       48          300          16       4170        300
TOTAL/AVERAGE               2600      100         1900        100        1370        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls Mln)
% of GNP
1975/76    1976/77      1977/78      1978/79     1978/79
Current Receipts                 605       1293         1965         2153           13
Current Expenditure              617        841         1250         1839           11
Current Deficit/Surplus         -12         452          715          314            2
Capital Expenditure              361        603         1167         2670           16
External Assistance, Net         635        606          697         1933           11
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
---YRls Million Outstanding End Period---
Money Supply                    2028       3642         5248         6311
Bank Credit to Govt. Sector   -407         -939         -990         -609
Bank Credit to Non-Govt.
Sector                       566        1474         1555         2199
------Percentages or Index Numbers-------
Money Supply as % of GNP          27         31           34           36
Annual Percentage Increase in:
Money Supply                  110          80           44           20
Consumer Price Index           17          24           19           22
1/ Tentative World Bank estimates.



Annex 1
-26 -                            Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Mln)
1972/73     1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79
Exports of Goods, fob                  7           12           19            7            3
Imports of Goods, cif               -120         -382         -730         -906      -1,405
Trade Balance                       -113         -370         -711         -899      -1,402
Non Factor Services, net             -11           21          -10          -21           17
Factor Income, net                   105          479          896         1160        1009
Workers' Remittances, net         (102)        (457)        (842)       (1090)        (898)
Investment Income, net              (3)         (22)         (54)         (70)       (111)
Balance on Current Account           -19          130          175          240        -376
M & LT Capital, net                   22          158          146          163          435
Official Grants                    14          114          104         101          312
Official Loans, net                 8           44           42           62         123
Disbursements                  (12)         (47)         (46)         (68)       (133)
Repayments                     (-4)         (-3)        (-4)         (-6)        (-10)
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net          25          -16          133         -30          144
Increase in Reserves (-)             -28         -272         -454         -373        -203
Gross Reserves (end FY) 1/            65          520          974         1347         1550
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, JUNE 30, 1979                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976/77-1977/78)
US$ Mln                                                          %
Total Outstanding          1,075                  Cotton and Cotton Products               31
of which disbursed           543                  Coffee                                   13
Hides and Skins                         14
Biscuits and Confectionary               9
All Other Commodities                    33
100
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978/79  2/                          RATE OF EXCHANGE
Since February 1973
Total Outstanding and
Disbursed                        2.7                      US$ 1.00 = YRls       4.50
YR1 1.00 = US$        0.22
1/ Central Bank holdings of convertible reserves.
2/ Includes workers' remittances.
EM1DB
April 1980



ANNEX II
- 27 -                       Page I of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of IDA Credits /1
(As of March 31, 1980 - $ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                          (less cancellations)
Number   Year          Borrower        Purpose                  IDA      Undisbursed
315     1972   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways I                  7.7           -
376     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture I   21.2 /2           0.02
421     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                  11.0          0.50
464     1974   Yemen-Arab Republic  Water Supply                6.3          0.39
465     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Industrial Estate           2.3          0.80
545     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Rural Development          10.0          4.48
558     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways II                 9.0           -
559     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply
and Sewerage           8.1          2.50
611     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                   8.0          1.50
636     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Grain Storage and
Processing             5.2          2.60
662     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Livestock Credit
and Processing         5.0          2.20
670     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply and
Sewerage              10.0          7.10
714     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Port Development            6.0          5.80
794     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways III               11.5         11.50
805     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture II  10.5              9.20
837     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Power Distri-
bution                  10.0          9.56
880     1979   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture
III                     15.0         15.00
915     1979   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                  10.0         10.00
950     1979   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply and
Sewerage /3             12.0         12.00
978     1980   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture
IV /4                 5.5          5.50
Total                                                184.3 /1    100.65
Of which has been repaid                               -
Total now held by IDA                                  -
Total undisbursed                                    184.3        100.65
/1   Excluding $7 million credit for a textile rehabilitation project which
was cancelled on October 31, 1979.
/2   Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
/3   Approved September 4, 1979; Credit not yet effective.
/4   Approved January 29, 1980, Credit Agreement not yet signed.



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of December 31, 1978)
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year            Obligor                Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978     Yemen Dairy and Juice         Dairy Products        2.4       -       2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                             2.4              2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                                   -                -
Total commitments now held by IFC                   2.4              2.4
Fully disbursed
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Three Bank grants of $200,000, $200,000 and $120,000 respectively,
were approved in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning
and economic advisors and later of a management/administrative expert. The
Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and $425,000. The
Bank grants will be fully disbursed in early 1980.
D.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; $11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Following initial delays in recruiting staff for the Project Unit,
project implementation has fallen about 24 months behind appraisal estimates.
However, five of the 12 project institutions became operational with the
school year beginning October 1979; another four are expected to commence
operations by mid-1980. Construction on the remaining three is nearly
completed but delivery of furniture and equipment is likely to extend into
1980 so that full operation is not expected until the 1980/81 academic year.
The most critical aspects of the project are the difficulty of recruiting
expatriate and trained Yemeni staff for project institutions, and of obtaining
technical assistance to draw up curricula and to make the institutions opera-
tional. With assistance from the UNDP/UNESCO institutional support team, the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
government is pursuing discussions with bilateral agencies to meet the tech-
nical assistance and some staffing needs for the project institutions, and
the major problem of staff recruitment is close to being solved with the
arrival of about 49 key specialists. In view of the delay caused in recruit-
ing key specialists for the important Basic Training Scheme and to allow the
undisbursed funds to be drawn down, the closing date has been postponed to
December 31, 1980.
Cr. No. 464-YAR - Sana'a Water Supply Project; $6.25 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Construction of the water distribution system has been completed.
With only final construction in the well field program remaining, the major
elements of the project have entered the maintenance phase. NWSA has initiated
its house connections program.
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1974; Closing Date: Decemnber 31,
1980.
Construction work started in February 1976; construction of the
developed plots is almost finished and most plots have been rented. The
Industrial Estate Authority now wishes to establish additional estates in
Hodeidah and Taiz, and is seeking further assistance from the World Bank.
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
After a slow start, progress on project implementation had been
encouraging. During the past months, however, managerial, staffing, and
financial problems again beset the project, and the government is seeking
satisfactory solutions. Nevertheless, these problems are mitigated by the
momentum and scope of the agricultural extension and credit programs, and the
progress in well drilling, and completing the village water supply components.
Problems of cost escalation have been met by reducing the number of loans that
can be made to farmers, and the extent of the feeder roads component.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Following award of the combined water and sewerage civil works and
the electrical/mechanical works contract, construction was initiated in May
1979. Transfer of the existing water system assets from the Port Authority is
expected shortly. Consultants for the tariff study have begun work.



ANNEX II
- 30 -                      Page 4 of 6
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of February 13,
1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Physical implementation of this project is proceeding on schedule
with five of the 12 project institutions operational by October 1979. Of the
remaining seven, four are expected to become operational by mid-1980, and
the rest are expected to be ready for the 1980/81 academic year. Bids for
furniture and equipment for the eight project institutions have been received
and evaluation is underway. Following the establishment of the National Basic
Training Board, an initial deposit of $50,000 has been made to the Basic
Training Fund, and some district training centers opened. Severe constraints
have been placed on achieving the educational objectives of the project due to
lack of progress in financing and recruiting expatriate and Yemeni staff for
the project institutions. The government is pursuing discussions with bi-
lateral agencies to meet the technical assistance and some staffing needs for
the project institutions, and the major problems of staff recruitment is close
to being solved with the arrival of 49 key specialists.
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
YGGC was established in October 1976 and is implementing the
project satisfactorily. Six local staff are currently undergoing training in
the US and UK in fields of cereal sciences and bakery management. Contracts
for the silo, government bakeries and warehouses have been awarded; construc-
tion has commenced and is expected to be complete by mid-1980. The report
on the National Nutrition Status Survey, carried out in cooperation with the
US Government's Center for Disease Control and USAID, is being drafted. Cost
overruns on construction are being met by the Saudi Fund for development and
the government. The grain storage survey which was behind schedule, has been
completed.
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million Credit
of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Following escalation in the costs of this project, and a number of
other implementation problems, the project description was amended to reduce
and/or reorientate some of the components, without changing the project
concept. One dairy farm and the livestock fattening farm are nearing comple-
tion; the establishment is progressing well and the farm has started opera-
tions on a small scale. The other physical works, although progressing
reasonably well at present, are about one year behind schedule. The slaughter-
house and animal health components, in particular, are achieving their aims,
and the livestock fattening, dairy production, and village development com-
ponents will provide valuable research information, and development experience
for the livestock sector in YAR. The administrative and technical problems
encountered earlier in the year are on the way to being resolved, and project
implementation is making progress.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                       Page 5 of 6
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All tenders for materials and construction of the water and sewerage
systems have been or are in the process of being awarded. The draft report of
the tariff study has been reviewed by the Authority and is being revised by
the consultant.
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule. However,
contracts for civil works have now been awarded, and construction is expected
to start in mid-1980. Other technical staff provided for under the credit
are still to be appointed. The government has taken steps to ensure that
these appointments will be made in the near future in order to strengthen
the technical services department.
Cr. No. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project aims at continuing technical and financial assistance to
the Highway Authority in the operation of effective road maintenance practices.
Other objectives of the project include the implementation of vehicle loading
controls, planning future highway development and the inception of an overlay
program to strengthen existing paved roads. Project implementation is underway
and the Chief Engineer has been appointed.
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Second Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima); $10.5 million
Credit of May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March 5, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Implementation of the project began in mid-1978 and is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of July 25,
1978; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1979; Closing Date: January 1, 1983.
Implementation is underway, and tender documents for the supply
of equipment and materials have been prepared and issued. Consultants are
carrying out the rural electrification study. Problems facing YGEC are
managerial and financial. However, a general manager has now been appointed,
although the posts of assistant general manager for Administration, Finance,
and Engineering remain vacant. YGEC will face heavy borrowing to meet the
capital requirements of its current development program and needs to plan
carefully its expenditure and sources of finance.



- 32 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Cr. No. 880-YAR - Third Tihama Development Project (Wadi Mawr); $15.0 million
Credit and $3.0 million Special Action Credit of April 20, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
Project implementation is underway.
Cr. No. 915-YAR - Third Education Project; $10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 21, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Project implementation is underway.
Cr. No. 950-YAR - Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $12.0 million
Credit of November 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 978-YAR - Fourth Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima II); $5.5 million
Credit
Approved January 29, 1980 (Credit Agreement signed April 21, 1980).



- 33 -                              ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by government and
consultants to prepare project:              4-1/2 years (April 1975 to
October 1979)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:               Government and consultants
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:             August 1974
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:        June 1977
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:              October 24, 1979
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                  April 10, 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:               November 1, 1980
Section II:   Special Implementation Action by IDA
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) Government acquisition of land for the proposed fishing port
at Hodeidah (para. 54), Khawbah fish landing pier and related
shore facilities (para 55), and Khawkhah and Mocha shore
facilities (para 56).
(b) Signing of cofinancing agreement (para 63).
2.        Measures to be undertaken by the government include:
(a) Establishment of a Project Implementation Unit, and the
appointment of the project manager (para 64).
(b) Appointment of an experienced engineering consultancy firm for
construction supervision, a boat builder, a master fisherman
with a crew of six experienced fishermen and a fish marketing
expert (para 60).



- 34 -                               ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Design, construction and subsequent maintenance of the Khawbah
road link by the Highway Authority (para 67).
(d) Organization of an onlending program by the Agricultural Credit
Bank for the financing of fishing vessels and shrimp trawlers,
as well as marine engines, fishing gear and fish transport
vehicles (para 68).



IBRD 14749
YEMAEN   ARAB   REPUBLIC                      FEBRUARY 1980
Ut  '   S Ut IRAN ~,*rz 3r   S A U D  I   A R A  B I A                         FISHERIES   DEVELOPMENT   PROJECT
|i-  63lU.r3^.>>A,,<_t      , ,/                                                                         MAJOR  INFRASTRUCTURE
'U N '   ;,^  S __ St _        VDHAHRAN                                                         BY LOCATION
oo                                                    UsIseD A3fZ 1 %PROJECT
soissnes   .Y( A  EMIt^TES  ,/,t  3                      -                          [3 Ports and Landing Facilities (Inlard Markets
*UD^",5  O_               5/ *                                         NAJRAN               .    Whoesalemp Processing
'°- i EHI"OPIA  5005115wA ti          5             0                                                            NON-PROJECT
P-ved Primary Roads
L_________.                                         t SAMARA                                             --- Primary Roads Under Construction
JIZAN,/\                   1              \__ _ Other Roords
(. \   nI SAADAHX                                                           Airports
%,BAN)                                               0    Cities, Towns and Villages
\UWAIR                                              0    National Capitals
e 0 yl \                                                                                                t- °BERAT  Main Wadis
f, -  J                   )                                            .-.-. International Boundaries
'4  N   f g HARAD
M<g <g   hLAIDI   }            SHIHARA     \
Lu'                                    ~~~~~~~~~~HOTH--~
u'7    j ~'t--   o,0   20    40    60    oo    100
-R.                                             AL               KHAMER                                                             KILOMETERS
ABS                                             /                          NA20BI6
7                                 ~     ~ ~~~          ~~~        ~~~~~0 20 4  60
MILES
>.  LUHAIYA                                                                 Ut
AN MAZOARA
KLAWBA        A          L W I   LTOOR
CAMPWRWI AL   A
K<DS,NHXUSh M MAR         MAHEIT   QABI[                        _ 7MARIB
7~~~~~                            SA~~~~~~NA'   O ASIV~~
XJX  \ ~~sIRDUD                        HAZYAZ/  
)D jSALIF      ZAIJA                   MANAr   H M             0HOHARIA
< O/   ,                                 DURAN  MABAR                 \rt, 
MOE C             /      0        XKASI{R             KAIDA MA/                             P E O  P LN E'INAT
BEIT    AL HCAY                         D \i          D E 'M  O C R ATIAMAR  RADAA
0 I  ALA\ FAQI
AL U6OrA. UCDAIN                                             AL R            - §  -        -
SMODIVKRATISUA    AR                      AAA...
, <                    \~~KHIMH      RANA   THIURB  M2I              
)  g  e        X~~UBAB    J;          ~           
E~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ET H                                                                I  CO  P       U A  L I 
55., /-/     
,/  \,  
/                              0    0                                . GUAF   F  ADfN
/       DOJI[ B O U T I                       -        .                                                   eeo.vwteoSho '"FA A              n.lD
./~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H w                                                                        _' '
/                                                                                           hondenannon,e~Z~'monesmans  0,0~ oen esmFl*nds
/                                                  ~                                                                nfeosmsemmrnnm  05P5 .n0emsnnm.mBNI






IBRD 14150
von S2stz    i  5V  6  #3 S                                                                                     d               FEBRUARY 1980
S^lgr^   o4eS A U D I  A R A B I A                               YEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
gn3-5* .;v}Z4,  C__                                                        FISHERIES  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
FISH  LANDINGS AND  DISTRIBUTION
'8    ___-              O~~HAH-RAN
rO   PRESENT  I=11985    10,000 Tons
~~~-'~~~ ' \ UrOtl^^f^>lrAr' t J / S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~5000
NAJRAN                        500*
se r9"no,v av          5,e                     \</200                                                                                  O0ot
S404U                                ors                                                                            l _20  5
E8i1/ rl"ORlA \; SOMAIA'5 } OL,                                                                                  Paved Primary Roads
Primory Roads Under Construction
L            .'         ,'F_____|__SAMARA                                                                            Other Roads
JIZA?S,                                   ¾\/                                      |-  Moin Wadis
\    \   \.1  SAADAHQ                   /                              X    Airports
'N      -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~SADHo    Cities, To-ns and Villages
$\   ~     r   :tAIR  /       r                  0    Notional Capwtals
\BERAT                          Regional Boundaries
-_ International Boundories
r>) a_ W- S HARAD\ <
c5. (;7i                                         SHIHARA    \      
9     20    0o   0o    BO   0100
-It            |\   ABS;   C) o°~~~~~~~~MAHABISg         H2E ,22181
1,115                      ~~~      ~     ~~~~220  0   20         40         00
MILES
4,~~~8t~~~E       BEI ~~~L HAHOAA                                           AA 
MADOR < ARIB
, r n ;n l ;: t\ ;0 // ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~220
x \ ,B;ij i : H I tX 2 618 J \ ~~~~~~~HAR I /
rn \ j  DURA p R A> ) X DURi
~~3.t\</--L\ z*   K
LL 6C 8 8- 4 ~~~~~AL ELHAY                                    HAMARl         ADA
/                                                                   G         OF ALJUR
1,44u      TOHAf             WAV  ZA                                            H                                         48'
I-~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                           4
,+; ,o95 ) j7 \ XKAS$RAN | ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P    E                               O P     L     E'  S
\   .ji   tv     4//?K5  l C<KB_X                 e           /           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~D E'W   O C  R A  T  I C  R E P U e  L  I c
5  k             f/g/  \ r   7\   -5                                               i  O~~~~~~~AWI~    F y E M E N
V                O   TU~~~~~RBA   'flS \is 
e          X                 ._ _4NI S~~~~~~HIBA                     \                 /
E T H  I O  P  I A             -                                        ,      /       AE
/            9'1                                     SUd ~~~6f  Of  ADEN
z.   D  J I B O  U T I                                                






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Khawbah Fishing Quay
This tw hss ben sp'e by the W,,,d Brn,ks ste!ff h;fsoiwty fiorth ,cormeion,    \\
Xof th.  aof the    to wchihit isattfehd. Thedi jonetiqs  wt lnth.       
,oude,ino shown 00 his e do not imply, on the psrt of  ftWoddBe,  ffs
g on  leg! sttus ofanoy tweitorY         \   \ f                         \ pt| Project area
Project buildings
Z    \ 0 h t Existing buildings
Shoreline
Boot Shed                                      --2--          Bathymetric contours
* /  /   |  /                                              in meters
Access  Trestle                               Fish ond
Shrimp                             0   20   40  60   80  100
) ~1   _Londtng  Grocer                      METERS
Service
Building
ARABI'°                      50°
EPT                             U.Au.E_i
,R  DSSAUDI ARABIA
-200                                       0
SUDAN                      )PEOPLE'
Ktbob*a    l OF YEMEN   R  /
SEA
L                                                                                                               /L      0JiBOtJT >jf0f A t |  ' nlernu  *t f
\  SOMALIA
6 ETHIOPIA         -~7
--Intrnatonalboundaries  0,o%






ARAB        40'                50 O, S A5
REP. Of                                                                                                             ARABC-
EGYPT                                U . A.E.                                                    YEMEN   ARAB  REPUBLIC
___0t \, SAUDI ARABIA ~FISHERIES  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
-20'                                         20/
6\<> \   . <OMANa                                          Hodeidah Fisheries Harbor
r ^    S-/EOE5 -                                                                                                           Habo
SUDAN/             E       YF OP YEMEN                                                            Project area                          Shoreline
SEA
fJ     DJ       II      O  SdA                                                               Project buildings        --2-        Bathymetric contours in meters
°- 0                   SOMALIT T0 T777777F7 Embankments                                                                      -    7-  Elevation contours in meters
ETHIOPIA       S
\.L7 IIj IIIExisting buildings
Internot!onol boundaries'
I  I        I    I7\                               I                           \ L           \   \Nd               \           o
/-) I @ il R \                       t                                     1 \Boat  Ya rd
1/                             /L /)A                                                                                                         'FAs'A
&    \   Fish Landing  /8        /                                                         l    I   / I                   ,~~~~~~~Fis
*Ha dling
D         E   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
/t            \^X  \ w                     '      '                /                     .                     .,             I    l   l l                    I  I      I~~~~~~~~~I 
This map has been prepared by the World Bank's staff exclusively for tle convenience                 /                                                                                              C I
of the readers of the report to which it is attached The denominations used end the                                 Il I                                                                             a
boundaries shown on this map do not imply, on the part of the World bank and its   0      20    40      60    80    100
affilietes, any judgment on the legal status of any territory or any endorsement or                                           /0 Ii
acceptance of such bounderosi/.                                                                    METERS                                                                                               OD



