Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10609-JM Type: (PCR)
ALEGRE, I / X31755 / T9059/ OEDDI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3174-Jy)
APRIL 24, 1992
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit - Jamaican Dollar (J$)
May  1979 - Jan. 1983         US$1.00 - J$1.781         J$1.00 - US$0.561
Feb. 1983 - Nov. 1983
Official Rate:              US$1.00 - J$1.781         J$1.00 - US$0.561
Parallel Rate:              US$1.00 - J$2.40 -2.80   J$1.00 - US$0.42 -0.36
Dec. 1983 - Nov. 1984
Floating Band System:       US$1.00 = J$4.00 -4.30   J$1.00   US$0.25 -0.23
Dec. 1984 - Oct. 1985
Free Floating Auction:      US$1.00 - J$6.10          J$1.00 - US$0.164
Nov. 1985 - Oct. 1989         US$1.00 - J$5.5s          J$1.00 - US$0.182
Nov. 1989 - Jan. 1990         US$1.00 - J$6.50          J$1.00 - US$0.154
Feb. 1990                     US$1.00 - J$7.00          J$1.00 - US$0.143
Sept. 1990
Market System:              US$1.00 - J$8.00          J$1.00 - US$0.125
Sept. 1991
Fully Liberalized Exchange
Regime:                   US$1.00 - J$16.00         J$1.00 - US$0.13
Glossary
ACB      -       Agricultural Credit Bank
ASAL     -       Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CET      -       CARICOM's Common External Tariff
CGA      -       Citrus Growers Association
COIB     -       Cocoa Industry Board
GFS      -       Generalized Food Subsidies
GOJ      -       Goverment of Jamaica
JCTC     -       Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation
MTFP     -       Medium-Term Economic Framework Program
PCBs     -       People's Community Banks
PESAL    -       Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
PIOJ     -       Planning Institute of Jamaica
TFSAL    -       Trade and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
TFSALII  -       Second Trade and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OFMCiAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Cirectnw-General
Operatiom Evaluation
April 24, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on JAMAICA - Agricultural
Sector Adiustment Loan (Ln.3174-JM)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion Report on Jamaica: Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (Ln.3174-JM)" prepared by the Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(La.3174-JH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaF No.
EVALUATION SUIDARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PART I - REMVEW FROM BANK'S PE.SPECTIVE
A. IntroductLon . . . . . . . . .*.**
Project Description  . . .1
Jamaica's Overall Economic Performance Since 1980  . . . . . . .      2
B. The ASAL Adjustment Program and its Justification  . . . . . . .      3
Objctives of the ASA  ........... .....................               3
Scope of Policies under the Adjustment Program . . . . . . . . .      3
C. The Bank's Role  ... . . . . .                                        5
The Bank's Role  . . . .                   .                          5
Deuign of the ReformProgram    ............ ..... .                   6
Appropriateness of the Program's Design  . . . . . . . . . . . .      6
Result of Negotiati      on    .....................                  7
D. ITplmentation of the Governmeat's Adjustment Program  . . . . .       8
Implementaticn of the Reform Program.   .......... ..                 8
Macroeconomic Policy Developments and
Actions Tkn by GOJ      .......................                    10
Trade Policy Action  . . . . . . . .. ..           ... ....... .     11
Reduction of Interest Rate Subsidies . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     11
Elimination of Legislative Controls on
Credit Union Interost Rates  ............                          12
PC Bank Arrears  a  .  * .a    . .    *  999999                      12
Deregulation of Citrus Marketing 999999999990909                     12
Deregulation of Cocoa Marketing      . . . . .      . . . . . .      12
Scaling Down JCTC's Generalized Food Subsidies . . . . . . . . .     13
Land Divestment and Titling  & a .     ......................        13
Divestment of Agricultural and
Agroindustrial  lnterprises ...   .. ..................            13
Rationalization of Pesticides Use  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     14
Other Policy Reforms in Agriculture  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     14
Timing   .  .  .  .   .   . .   .  .  . .  .     .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



?r&. No.
Z. Monitoring of the Adjustment Program. .......   ..  a..                       15
Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             15
Audit          . . . . . . . .           ..... ... e * * * * * * * . .       15
Loan Supervision . . .        .          . . . . . . . . . . . . .           15
Second Tranche Release .... ....... .....................                    15
F. Lessons Learned and Follow-up Measures Required  . .        . .. ....        15
Results  .........  .    ..............  ...............    * ..............  15
Sustainability . . .  ....  ...........  ........  ............  .............  15
Lessons Learned   .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... .   .   . . . . . ..   16
PART II-REVIEWROH BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   999.9...9.9.9.9.9.9.                 17
PARTIII-  BASICDATASHEET  . . . .. .. .  ........  .. .                         30
ANNEXES
1. Comments received from the Inter-American Development Bank . . .             33
2. Comments received from ;he Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau  . . .             34
HAP IBRD 20846



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln.3174-JM)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Operation, for which Loan 3174-JM in the amount of US$25 million was
approved on March 6, 1990. The Loan was closed on March 30, 1991, on schedule.
It has been fully disbursed. The last disbursement under the Loan was made on
March 26, 1991.
The PCR was prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division of the
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Sumary, and
Parts I and III). The Borrower has provided Part II and their major comments
have been addressed in Part I of the PCR. Comments have been received from the
Inter-American Development Bank and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, and have been
incorporated into the PCR where appropriate; both sets of comments are reproduced
in full in Annexes 1 and 2.  The OECF (Japan) Office and the Embassy of the
Netherlands had no comments.
Preparation of this PCR was based Inter ales on the President's Report,
the Loan Agreement, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal
Bank memoranda including the second tranche release memorandum, and a visit by
a consultant to Jamaica for the specific purpose of preparing this report. It
focusses on the implementation record of the operation, an analysis of key issues
and divergences between actual and expected outcomes, Bank and Borrower
performance throughout the project cycle, and lessons that may be derived. It
also attempts to provide an assessment of the operation's impact in terms of the
agreed objectives, policies, and institutions.



- lii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Ln.3174-JH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The objectives of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) were
to support the Government's program of adjustment for improving the agricultural
sector's prospects for efficient growti., by: (i) improving the sector's
incentives framework through rationalization of the import regime for
agricultural commodities, reduction of generalized food subsidies, deregulation
of the citrus and cocoa industries, and improvements" in interest rate policy
and related aspects of directed agricultural credit; (ii) continuing the process
of divestment of public assets in the agricultural sector; and (iii) helping to
establish an institutional basis for dealing with improper use of pesticides.
The specific actions agreed under the Loan are described in paras. 2.2 to 2.7 of
Part I.
Implementation Experience
2.        The implementation experience under the ASAL has been satisfactory (for
details, see paras. 4.1 to 4.18 of Part I). Not only did Government timely and
adequately undertake those actions agreed under the Loan, but additional
actions--beyond the Loan's conditionality--were taken to further the agricultural
reform program defined in the Loan's Agricultural Policy Statement (para. 4.19).
Results
3.        The general orientation of policy in the agricultural sector towards
greater reliance on market mechanisms for resource allocation and fewer
administrative controls has been succesacfully assisted by the ASAL. The impact
of the operation on the sector's and the economy's actual performance, however,
could only be assessed after a much longer period of time. Even then, it would
be very difficult to assess the separate contribution of this operation, which
was a component of an overall program of adjustment of the Jamaican economy
spanning over a decade and still continuing at the time of this writing.
1/ Reduction of interest rate differentials between Government directed credit lines and market
Interest rates.



- iv -
Nevertheless, some benefits are measurable in terms of the rate of increase in
producers' prines and outputs, together witi export growth statistics. There has
also been a majcr realign8mrt of relative prices because of devaluation, which
has benefited agriculture.  Export growth statistics for traditional agriculture
exports show an increase of 672 for 1990 (US$60.0 million) from 1989 (US$36.0
million) and provisional figures for 1991 (Qtre. 1 - 3) are US$47.3 million,
indicating a continuing growth in these exports for 1989 and 1990 an' a somewhat
slower growth in 1991. These figures also reflect the recovery from the effects
of Hurricane Gilbert wL ah struck the island in 1989.
Sustainabilitv
4.        Upon discussions with key Government officials, it is evident that the
reform program was carried out with conviction by senior levels of Government on
the merits of the reform measure", with the exception of interest rate reforms
where Government was reticent about the reforms. Thus, the reform program may
be sustainable. There remain strong resistances to reliance on market mechanisms
at the level of technicians at various Government offices, mainly in the areas
of interest rate and trade liberalization policies (para. 3.3). To help maintain
the new policies in place, it would be advisable for the Bank to keep the reform
momentum by further supporting market-oriented policies through future loans in
the sector and through general policy dialogue with the Government.
Lessons Learned
5.        The methodology used to analyze agricultural sector issuea and identify
desirable reforms relied on a true joint effort between the Bank and the
Government (para. 3.2). This facilitated reaching agreement on most issues in
a fairly straightforward manner, with the notable exception of interest rate
policy (paras. 3.5 to 3.7).   As a result of this close cooperation during
preparation of the Loan, the implementation of the agreed reform program was
carried out by the Government in a determined and timely manner.



PROJECT COMPLFTION REPORT
JAHAICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOUN
(Ln.3174-JH2
PART I: REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Introduction
Project Description
1.1       The main features of the Project were:
Borrower:      Jamaica.
Amount:        US$25.0 million, in two equal tranches.
Terms:         17 years, including five years of grace at the standard variable
interest rate.
Purpose:       To support the Government's program of adjustment for improving
the agricultural sector's prospects for efficient growth, by: (i)
improving the sector's incentive framework through rationaliza-
tion of the import regime for agricultural commodities, reduction
of generalized food subsidies, deregulation of the citrus and
cocoa industries, and improvements in interest rate policy and
related aspects of directed agricultural credit; (ii) continuing
the process of divestment of public assets; and (iii) helping to
establish an institutional basis for dealing with improper use of
pesticides.
Cofinancing:   The Loan was to be cofinanced by loans to be disbursed also in
two tranches, from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of
Japan (US$25.0 million), and the Federal Republic of Germany's
KfW (DM 25.0 million).  Also, the IDB supported the operation
with a US$50 million loan and there was a grant from the
Government of the Netherlands (NLG 20 million).
1.2       The Loan formed an integral part of the Medium-Term Economic Framework
Program (NTFP), agreed with the Government of Jamaica (GOJ) in December 1987.
The Loan was approved on March 6, 1990, and the Loan Agreement was signed on
March 23, 1990. The Loan became effective five days later, on March 28, 1990.
The first tranche (502 of the Loan amount; or US$12.5 million) was disbursed on
March 30, 1990. The release of the second tranche was approved on March 22, 1991
and disbursed on March 26, 1991. The Loan's Closing Date was March 30, 1991.
,amaica's Overall Economic Performance Since 1980
1.3       When a new Government came to office in October 1980, the country had
a declining gross national product, high inflation fueled by a large budget



-2-
deficit, unemployment of almost 28S of the work 'orce and a serious balance of
payments problem.   Starting in 1981, the Government undertook a seriee of
adjustment programs supported by the IMP ard by three structural adjustment loans
from the World Bank. By the end of 1985, hovaver, little progress had been made
and total output was lower than it had been in 1979 in spite of large donor
assistance that increased Jamaica's external debt from US$1.5 million to US$3.6
billion over Lne period.
1.4       While some progress had been made in reducing Government spending,
adjusting the exchange rate, and reducing quantitative restrictions on imports,
the economy was still highly protected, capital flows were closely regulated,
Government interventions and subsidies continued to distort relative pricea and
resource allocation, private sector access to credit was limited by Government
requirements, and the balance of payments situation remained precarious. At the
same time, economic conditions had deteriorated and street riots followed the
imposition of higher gasoline prices in January 1985.
1l5       After a hiatus of Bank lending during FY86, during which an outside
panel of economic experts reviewed the economy and recommended a more vigorous
adjustment effort, Jamaica entered into a new arrangement with the IMP in January
1- '7 and agreed to resume an adjustment program with the Bank's support. The
Bank decided that sector adjustment operations would be more appropriate in
addressing sector-specific issues, and therefore prepared three operations, a
Trade and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (TPSAL) for improving the trade and
financial sectors, a Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (PESAL) for
improving the operational efficiency of the parastatal sector, and the present
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) aimed at improving the efficiency of
agriculture. A Medium-Term Economic Framework Paper (MTFP) was agreed between
GOJ and the Bank, of which the three sector adjustment loans formed an integral
part.
1.6       The relative importance of the agricultural sector had been in steady
decline for more than 30 years. the sector's share of GDP fell from 15-17S in
the early sixties to 72 at the end of 1989. While agriculture accounted for only
71 of GDP, it still employed about 282 of the labor force. Real sectoral GDP
rose only 5.51 over a fifteen-year period (1972-1988).  Part of the downward
trend in relative terms reflects the growth of activities such as tourism and
bauxite.   However, inadequate C.,iernment policies during the seventies also
played a major role. By and large, these policies promoted import substitution
through trade restrictions and, as a result, there was an inefficient shift away
from export crops towards crops for domestic consumption. Real value added in
export crops fell by 372 over the fifteen- year period, while production for
domestic consumption increased by 19% (as compared with population growth of 24%
in the period).



-3-
B. Th. ASAL Adjustment Program and its Justification
Oblectiv_ae of the ASAL
2.1       The program of reforms included six main specific objectives under the
ASAL:
(a)  to improve agricultural pricing policies, by improving trade
policies and by r -tcing the scale of the Generalized Food
Subsidies (GFS) program of the Jamaica Cottmodity Trading
Corporation (JCTC);
(b) to adjust agricultural credit policies;
(c) to deregulate the marketing of cocca and citrus;
(d) to support the Government's program of public divestment;
(e) to address problems of pesticide use; and
(f) to ensure the maintenance of adequate macroeconomic policies,
consistent w'th au efficient development of the agricultural
sector.
Scope of Policies under the Adlustment Proaram
2.2       Regarding the trading aspects under the first objective, the Government
had already, before Board presentation: (i) eliminated all quantitative import
restrictions for the protection of small farmers and the use of reference prices
for agricultural and agroindustrial products; (ii) introduced a new schedule of
custom and stamp duties for these products; and (iii) announced a timetable of
reductions of tariff rates so as to reach corresponding CARICON's common external
tariffs (CET) over a five-year period for most items, and between three to seven
years for a group of selected items. To consolidate this program the Government
agreed under the Loan to put into effect the first step of the scheduled annual
reductions  of tariff rates,  ensuring that no tariffs would exceed  100%.
Regarding JCTC's pricing policies, the Government had already introduced large
increases in the prices of fiodstuffs sold by JCTC, so as to limit the fiscal
cost of the GFS program.  'I.e Government made a commitment under the Loan to
eliminate transfers to JCTC by FY91 and agreed to limit Central Government
transfers to JCTC in PY90 to no more than J$ 130 million.
2.3       Regarding  agricAltural  credit  policies,  the  Loan  aimed  att
(i) lmproving the interest rate structure of agricultural lending by the
Government's Agricultural Credit Bank; (ii) dealing with the issue of the arrears
of the People's Community Banks (PCBs, which channel ACB credit to small
farmers); and (iii) widening the distribution channels of loans to small farmers.
On lnterest rate structure, the ACB had already established, by Board
presentation, the following terms for the loans it rediscounted: (i) for medium



-4
and large farmers (those with more than 25 acres of land) the interest rate was
to be 152 (up from 142) and the maximum financing by ACB of the total costs of
an investment project WaS to be 602 (down from 80%); (ii) for small farmers
(those with up to 25 acres of land), the interest rate would be 11% p.a. and new
loan amounts would be subject to a maximum of US$5,000 equivalent (down from
US$14,500) and outstanding balances per borrower to a maximum of US$7,500. Above
those limits, small farmers coald borrow but ".. the terms applicable to medium
and large farmers. The ACB would continue to finance up to 80% of the total cost
of any given small farmer investment project. Under the Loan, ACB waS committed
to implement the following system for setting interest ratest (i) for medium and
large farmers, the interest rate would be equal to the average yield of Treasury
Bills in the 12-month period prior to the starting date of the new system and
would be revised for new loans at the end of every quarter upon the same
procedure; (ii) for small farmers, interest rates would be equal to the rete of
medium and large farmers, minus seven points. For new loans to small farmers,
interest rates would also be revised every quarter.  TILe above baaically assurei
that lending rates for medium and large farmers would be at positive real
interest rates--barring the existence of large unanticipated inflation. However,
the same cannot be said of lending conditions for smallholders since the lending
rate of 7 percentage points below the Treasury Bill rate could yield negative
real interest rates in an inflationary environment.   The Government also
committed itself to submit to Parliament draft legislation eliminating the then
existing restrictions on interest rate setting by credit uniors.   On PCBs'
arrears, the Government had introduced a system that calls for the automatic
suspension of disbursements to any PCB whose arrears of more than 120 days
represent more than 20Z of the outstanding due at the end of any given quarter.
Under the Loan, the Government agreed to maintain the policy of automatic
suspension of dicbursements. Finally, on widening the distribution channels of
ACB loans to small farmers, ACB had modified its Operations Manual to allow
access by qualified commercial banks, credit unions or other financial
intermediaries to the rediscounting of loanis to small farmers under the same
conditions as such rediscounting was available to the PCBs.
2.4       Regarding the marketing of cocoa, there had been a de facto monopoly
on cocoa exports and wide powers assigned to the Cocoa Industry Board (COIB) by
the existing legislation to regulate the entire marketing process for this crop.
On citrus, the existing legislation gave tha Citrus Growers Association (CGA) the
power to license private citrus exporters and to regulate the marketing in
various ways.  To modify the situation, the Government--as a first step--had
approved the issuance of new deregulation guidelines. For cocoa, this amounted
to: (i) eliminate the requirement of a minimum volume of production (at the time
of 200 tons of dry cocoa per year) to be able to apply for a direct exporter
license; (ii) allow any private entrepreneur and not only growers and growers'
cooperatives to become direct exporters; (iii) eliminate all existing
restrictions in terms of buying or selling prices in private cocoa transactions
and regarding the location of the private direct exporters or their suppliers;
and (iv) eliminate the restrictions on private direct exporters that sale
negotiations had co be conducted through COIB's agents. Under the Loan, the
Government agreed to solidify this deregulation by securing amendment by
Parliament of the Cocoa Industry Board Act of 1957. The COIB, however, was to



keep its quality control functions with regard to exports.   With regard to
citrus, the Government had approved the issuance of x.ew deregulation guidelines
tot (i) clearly specify the circumstarces under which a license to export could
be denied or revoked and the recourse available to the petitioner; (ii) eliminate
the minimum requirement in terme of production or acreage (15,000 field boxes per
year or 50 acres of plantings) for a grower to become a direct exporter; (iii)
allow any private ent-epreneur and not only growers to obtain licenses to become
a direct exporter; and (iv) make voluntary the payment of a cess to the CGA on
citrus production (i.e., limited to members of the CGA). Under the Loan, the
iovernment agreed to obtain amendment by Parliament of the Agricultural Marketing
Act of 1944 to simplify the procedure that allows the Minister of Agriculture to
modify any marketing plan submitted under the Act.  It also agreed that the
Minister of Agriculture would amend the C.trus Marketing Plan of 1949 to allow
unrestricted--subject only to standard legal requirements for firms in all
sectors of the economy--purchasing, processing, and exporting of citrus and
citrus products.
2.5       Regardtng the public divestment program, many farmers who occupied
la.Js distributed under previous Government programs did not have titles. The
Governmer.t had started a program to issue up to 12,000 titles to address this
problem. Under the Loan, the Government agreed to issue 2,000 titles before
second tranche release.  _n addition, the Government agreed to sell at least
7,000 acres of its lands (suitable for farming) to small farmers. Finally, the
Government agreed to divest at least five small agricultural and agroindustrial
enterprises, with assets valued at less than US$2 million equivalent each, and
one enterprise with assets in excess of that amount. In cases that negotiations
would not be completed, the Government was to take satisfactory action to dispose
of the corresponding assets.
2.6       Regarding the use of pesticides, it was agreed that the situation
concerning pesticide use was to be reviewed through a study to be carried out by
a qualified independent agency, leading to the formulation of an action plan for
improved pesticide use, satisfactory to the Bank.
2.7       Finally,  regarding  macroeconomic  policies,  it  was  agreed  that
satisfactory macroeconomic policies would be kept in place, consistent with
adequate agricultural policies.
C. The Bank's Role
The Bank's Role
3.1       The Bank played an important role in putting together the reform
program, consistent with the reform efforts initiated under the SALs and the
TFSAL. The Bank's knowledge of the agricultural sector not only allowed it to
develop a sound and adequate reform program, but also allowed it to play a strong
leadership role, attracting four cofinanciers which provided funds amounting to



-6-
almost four times the amount of the Bank's loan. The Bank played a proactive
role in coordinating the reform objectives of the various cofinanciers.
Subsequently, one of the cofinanciers, IDB, went on to negotiate additional
reform measures (para. 3.7) in connection with the Second Tranche release of the
loan. This gave rise to some concern on the part of the Borrower, as reflected
in Part II of the PCR, that more coordination between the Bank and the IDB during
the negotiation  stage might have avoided this.   However,  the subsequent
agreements entered into between IDB and the Government were part of a continuing
process of negotiations with Government, particularly over the sensitive, small
farmer interest rate issue.
Design of the Reform Proaram
3.2       FAO studies carried out in 1986 had already identified some important
issues affecting the agricultural sector and recommended that the Bank become
involved in supporting sector adjustment. In June 1987, a Bank identification
mission agreed with the Government to carry out detailed studies on key aspects
affecting the agricultural sector.   GOJ's institutions (Office of the Prime
Minister, Agro-21, Ministry of Agriculture, PIOJ) prepared several papers that
were eventually used to develop an Agriculture Policy Framework Paper. The paper
was the basis for the development of the reform program under the Loan. The
greatest merit of the approach was to develop a mechanism for jointly identifying
the main issues relevant to the sector. On most issues, an agreement was reached
at an early stage. The exception was the interest rate issue, which proved to
be quite controversial and was eventually the reason for having lengthy
negotiations.11
AnRropriateness of the Program's Design
3.3       The Program seems to have been designed in an appropriate fashion,
since its main features deal directly with the main policy issues affecting the
agricultural sector. Furthermore, it kept a close relationship with the SALs,
the TFSAL, and the IMP programs. Still, in spite of the efforts made to jointly
identify the issues with the Government, there remain strong doubts at the
technical levels of GOJ on the appropriateness of some key elements of the
Program, mainly the trade adjustment and interest rate policy aspects (para.
6.2). Most senior GOJ technicians still believe that dismantling protection for
farmers, while concurrently increasing interest rates to the high levels
prevailing in the Jamaican financial market, can only result in a weaker
agricultural sector.
if Even today, some Goverment officials believe that agricultural rates at market levels cannot
be sustained by the agricultural sector. COJ also believes that the sector qualifies as a
special case for maintaining different lending conditions between small and large farmers. This
stems In large part from GOJ'a concern that some form of subsidy to the small farmer lu needed
(see Part 11 of the PCR). However, as pointed out in the ASAL President's Report and background
documentation, only about 102 of the small farmers were directly Impacted by the lnterest rate
changes.



7-
3.4       There are a few areas where experience juggests that a different
adjustment design would have proven more adequate to achieve desired results.
As per the policy agreement under ASAL, interest rates on ACB-rediscounted loans
were allowed to remain fixed, despite highly variable inflation levels. But,
because some policy makers did not believe in applying market rates to
agricultural borrowers, they allowed the ACB to make a large number of loans at
the old (fixed) subsidized rates just before second tranche reforms were
introduced.'/
Result of Negotiations
3.5       Negotiations were initially held in the week of August 21-25, 1989.
Full agreement was reached on all issues at that time with the important
exception of interest rate reforms. Only minor changes were introduced to the
originally  proposed  set  of  actions.    During  negotiations,  however,  GOJ
representatives rejected the inclusion of a clause to establish a high-level
Procurement Committee for petroleum products, since this was not related to
agriculture.   As a result, those products were not considered eligible for
financing under the Loan.    Nevertheless,  this  fact  did not  create any
difficulties for disbursement (para. 5.1).
3.6       The  minor  changes  that  resulted  from  the  negotiations,  were:
(i) instead of setting April 1, 1990 as the date for new tariffs, GOJ was to
decide on such a date.  In any case, the condition would remain as a second
tranche condition; (ii) the target on land titles was reduced from 3,000 to
2,0001 and (iii) the target for divestiture of enterprises was modified to
completing negotiations rather than actually completing full divestiture, which
seems appropriate since it was not possible to ensure that private buyers were
to acquire the enterprises offered for sale.
3.7       Negotiations over interest rate policies continued informally until an
agreement was finally reached, and the Bank staff was able to issue the Notice
of Completion of Negotiations on January 25, 1990. As indicated in Part II of
the PCR, Government had argued throughout for a more gradual adjustment of
interest rates.   Bank management, however, stood firm on the need for =ore
substantial reforms.   Subsequently,  one of the cofinancing agencies  (IDB)
negotiated further improvements in the formula for setting interest rates on
loans to small farmers in line with the objective of progressively moving to
market determined rates. The interest rate subsidy granted to small farmers was
reduced as the lending rate was increased from its initial level set at seven
percentage points below the Treasury Bill rate (para 2.3) to three percentage
points below the Treasury Bill rate. Since between 1986 and 1990 the real (ex-
post) interest rate associated to the Treasury Bill had varied between 11.5S and
3.42, having smallholders borrow at a rate three percentage points below the
/ According to the ACB, the public debate surrouading the demands by the IBRD and the IDB
alerted farmers and financial intermediaries to the 4m-ineat increase in rates. ACB simply
responded expeditiously to the increased demand. In general, most of ACB loans are disbursed
within the first year.



-8-
Treasury Bill, basically assured they would borrow at positive real interest
rates. Moreover, the agreement also provided that if the nominal interest rate
resulting from the Treasury Bill rate minus three percentage points were below
the inflation rate (thus yielding a negative real interest rate for the
Borrower), the Treasury Bill rate minus three percentage points formula would not
be used, and instead, the nominal interest rate charged to small farmers would
equal the rate of inflation.   As a result,  the agreement made sure that
smallholders could never benefit from borrowing at negative real interest
rates4/. The agreement made with the IDB was part of a continuing process of
negotiations between the multilaterals and the Government. Once the protracted
negotiations under the ASAL reached an initial satisfactory reform program, IDB
went on to negotiate further improvements. This later resulted in the agreement
between IDB and the Government (prior to the disbursement of the second tranche
of the loan) to set variable interest rates which, in the case of loans to medium
and large farmers, were equal to market (lending) levels, and for the small
farmers were equal to the Treasury Bill rate.
D. Implementation of the Government's Adiustment Program
Implementation of the Reform Program
4.1       A feature of the present operation was that it was "front loaded,"
meaning that many reform actions were required prior to Board presentation.
Another twelve actions were envisaged as conditions for release of the Loan's
second tranche:
(a)  the Government would put into effect the first step of the
scheduled annual reductions in tariff rates for agricultural and
agroindustrial goods, and no tariff would exceed 100Z after these
reductions;
(b) Central Government transfers to JCTC to help defray the cost of
the GFS program in FY90, would be kept at no more than J$ 130
million;
(c) the ACB would introduce and operate the following system for
setting interest rates on the l3ans it rediscounts: (i) for
medium and large farmers, the interest rate would be set equal to
the average yield of Treasury Bills in the twelve months previous
to the date the new system went into effect and would be revised
for new loans at the end of every quarter thereafter, following
It Is Interesting to note that the final formulae agreed under the ASAL for setting the
interest rates on ACB-rediscounted loans, as amended by the agreement between the IDB and the
GOJ, was almost identical to the Bank's original proposal as contained in the Loan's Initiating
Memorandum endorsed by the Bank's Operations Comnittee.



- 9 -
the same procedure; and (ii) for small farmers the interest rate
would be set equal to the average yield of Treasury Bills in the
twelve months previous to the date the new system went into
effect, minus seven points, and would be revised for new loans at
the end of every quarter thereafter following the same procedure;
(d) the ACB would maintain its policy of automatic suspension of
disbursements, for PCBs whose arrears were more than 20% of the
outstanding due at the end of any given quarter;
(e) GOJ would submit to Parliament draft legislation,
reforming the Cooperative Societies Act to enable
credit unions to set their lending and deposit interest
rates freely;
(f) there would be an amendment of the Cocoa Industry Board Act of
1957 to enable any legally constituted private firms to engage in
the unrestricted purchasing, processing and exporting of cocoa
and cocoa products, subject only to the standard legal
requirements for firms in all sectors, except that GOJ through
the COIB would retain a function of quality control over cocoa
output of private exporters. Membership of cocoa producers and
processors in the COIB would be voluntary and no cess would be
imposed on non-members;
(g) there would be: (i) an amendment by Parliament of the Agriculture
Marketing Act of 1944 to simplify the procedure for the Minister
of Agriculture to modify any marketing plan submitted under the
Act; and (ii) an amendment by the Minister, of the Citrus
Marketing Plan of 1949, to enable any legally constituted private
firms to engage in the unrestricted purchasing, processing, and
exporting of citrus and citrus products, subject only to standard
legal requirements for firms in all sectors;
(h)  GOJ would issue at least 2,000 land titles during FY89;
(i)  GOJ would sell at leas  7,000 acres in FY89;
(j) GOJ would complete negotiations for the divestment of at least
five small agricultural and agroindustrial enterprises with
assets valued at less than US$2 million each, and at least one
enterprise with assets in excess of that amount. In each of the
cases where negotiations had not been completed GOJ would take
alternative actions, satisfactory to the Bank to dispose of the
assets of the corresponding enterprises;
(k)  GOJ would take acti ns to have completed a study to review the
use of chemical pesticides and related policies and regulatory
arrangements.    GOJ would  also  agree  with  the  Bank  on  a



- 10 -
satisfactory  plan  of  action  to  implement  the  study's
recommendations; and
(1) GOJ would maintain satisfactory macroeconomic policies consistent
with adequate agricultural policies.
4.2       Tht Memorandum on Progress of the Reform Program under the ASAL and
Notification of Second Tranche Release of March 22, 1991 adequately outlines the
actions taken by the Government to meet the conditions for second tranche
release.
Macroeconomic Policy Developments and Actions Taken by GOJ
4.3       Under the ASAL, GOJ undertook to maintain a sound macroeconomic
framework, emphasizing viable fiscal balances. It was expected that a number of
revenue and expenditure measures would result in a reduction of the overall
public sector deficit from about 132 of GDP in FY88 to 4.51 of GDP in FY89, and
that GOJ would continue to take the necessary measures to further reduce the
public sector deficit over the medium term. While Jamaica was significantly
affected by the rise in oil prices in 1990 and the decrease in international
airline travel during the Gulf War, GOJ eliminated controls on domestic oil
prices and the increase in import prices was transferred to the consumer. At the
same time, electricity tariffs were increased to reflect higher energy costs.
Also, water charges were increased and as part of the policy to phase out
generalized food subsidies, prices of food products sold by JCTC were increased.
As a result, the specific commitment of reducing the overall public sector
deficit was fully complied with. The deficit was reduced from 13.42 of GDP in
FY88 to 4.3Z in FY89 (including grants and divestment proceeds as revenues). The
economic program for FY90 envisaged a further reduction to 3.32 of GDP and the
resulting deficit was 2% of GDP, as divestment proceeds were larger than
originally expected, mainly as a result of the sale of GOJ shares in the
telecommunications company. Divestments contributed US$96 million in FY89 and
US$88 million in PY90 to fiscal revenues (about 2.5X of GDP in each year). Under
the Second Trade and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (TFSALII), GOJ is committed
to further reduce the overall public sector defl'4t to 2.2-2.81 of GDP in FY91
and to 1.6-2.22 in FY92.
4.4       International competiti-eness was enhanced by a series of devaluations,
from J$ 5.5 per US dollar to J$ 6.5 in November 1989 and to J$ 7 in February
1990. This restored the real effective exchange rats of the Jamaican dollar to
its mid-1988 level. When the fixed rate came again under pressure, a market-
determined system operated by commercial banks was established in September 1990.
The rate fluctuated around J$ 8 per dollar during the remainder of 1990. After
staying at J$ 8.25 per US dollar during the first quarter of 1991, the exchange
rate surpassed the level of J$ 10 and the commercial banks proceeded to fix the
rate at about J$ 10 in early June. However, black market rates continued to
climb to as high as J$ 17, reflecting strong pressures against the exchange rate.
Against this background, in September of 1991, the Government proceeded to
eliminate all exchange controls, including both current and capital transactions.



- 11 -
Following the full liberalization of the exchange system, the exchange rate rose
from J$ 16 in late September to close to J$ 19 in November.
4.5       Also, in the course of 1990-91, GOJ undertook a series of reforms in
the trade and finance regimes, supported under the TFSALII, approved by the Board
on March 21, 1991. The trade reforms reduce protection further and make it more
uniform across sectors, while the financial reforms strengthen the means for
managing monetary policy, improve the regulation of financial institutions and
make the allocatior. of financial resources more efficient.
Trade Policy Action
4.6       The agreed program was gradually to reduce tariffs on agricultural and
agroindustrial imports subject to protective stamp duties to the levels of
CARICOM's CET, which are now in the range of 5-45%. In December 1990 the first
phase of the agreed program was completed and as a result no tariffs (custom
duties plus stamp duties) on any agricultural or agroindustrial imports exceed
100%, down from a maximum of 175% before. Further tariff reductions have already
been carried out in the context of the TFSALII. Ad valorem tariffs have been
introduced for all items previously subject to specific tariffs, custom duties
have been lowered for many items in line with the new CET rates adopted in
February 1991 (between 5 and 45Z), and stamp duties have been lowered for a range
of items, other than the ones included under the ASAL. Before the release of the
second tranche of the TESALII, GOJ eliminated stamp duties on all imports, except
fors (i) those included under the ASAL, whose stamp duties the GOJ has confirmed
will continue to be lowered in accordance with the schedule agreed under that
loan; and (ii) condensed milk, corn, soybeans, and aluminum products, for which
stamp duties would be phased out within three years.
Reduction of Interest Rate Subsidies
4.7       The new credit policies (para. 4.1 (c)) went into effect on December
15, 1990 for new loans approved by ACB after that date. For the period December
15, 199C to March 31, 1991, resulting lending rates were 23% for small farmers
and 30Z for medium and large farmers. Also, under the TFSALII, it was agreed
that before second tranche release (expected by March 1992), ACB-rediscounted
loans for medium and large farmers will start carrying market lending rates (set
by the financial intermediaries, i.e., the commercia] banks), and that for small
farmers the rates will be equal to the most recent Si-day Treasury Bill rate.!'
Thus, actions by GOJ were satisfactory and in line with requirements under ASAL.
4.8       Shortly before the scheduled date for the change in interest rates
(December 15, 1990), the ACB, based on the increased demand, granted a large
number of loans at the old (fixed) interest rates.   Thus, some privileged
beneficiaries will continue to receive new disbursements over the next several
years at the old interest rates.
St In fact, as pointed out in the footnote to para. 3.7, these changes have been advanced.



- 12 -
Elimination of Letislative Controls on Credit Union Interest Rates
4.9       The Cooperative Societies Act was rejected by the House of Senate on
March 15, 1991 for further liberalization of the rate of dividends that societies
could pay to members. It should be resubmitted to the House of Parliament in
January 1992.
PC Bank Arrears
4.10      ACB has been monitoring the arrears of PC Banks and has maintained its
policy of automatic suspension of PC Banks whose arrears of more than 120 days
represent more than 202 of the outstanding due to the ACB at the end of any given
quarter.  As of May 28, 1991, there were fourteen PC Banks suspended.   There is
one difference, though, with the requirements under the Loan. While under the
ASAL it is required that disbursements be suspended to delinquent PCBs, ACB has
been suspending only new loan approvals, not to create difficulties to the
clients of those PCBs. This would seem reasonable. GOJ did not ask for Bank's
concurrence on this point.11
Deregulation of Citrus Marketing
4.11      All legal restrictions to the marketing of citrus and its products have
been eliminated. On February 1, 1991 the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1944 was
amended, so as to authorize the Minister of Agriculture to amend or revoke any
Marketing Plans adopted under the Act. Furthermore, on February 22, 1991, the
Citrus Marketing Plan of 1949, containing the restrictions in question which gave
regulatory and monopoly powers to the Citrus Growers Association, was revoked.
Since the action was taken, there are new citrus exporters and competition is
certainly increasing. It should be underlined that quality control functions
(pest, disease, and country standards) continue to be a function of the Plant
Quarantine Produce Inspection Division of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Deregulation of Cocoa Marketing
4.12      Legislation satisfactory to the Bank amending the Cocoa Industry Board
Act of 1957 was approved by Parliament and publicized on February 1, 1991,
lifting all restrictions on individuals and private firms to engage in the
purchase and exporting of cocoa and cocoa products. The Board retains a function
of quality control over cocoa exports. It may now impose a cess only on cocoa
voluntarily sold by farmers to the Board, or on cocoa exports to cover for
quality control functions. So far, there has been no change in the institutional
setup of cocoa marketing in Jamaica, because most producers are small farmers and
because the Board has the only facilities in Jamaica to process cocoa.
61 According to the GOJ, continuing disbursement on existing PC bank loane was effected for two
reasons: ACB's legal commitments to continue these loans to the PC banks, and to avoid
jeopardizing the viability of projects. Prepayment without penalty is not accepted by the ACB.
A policy exists on which a prepayment fee of 31 is applied to any prepayment by Approved
Financial institutions of outstanding principal amounts.



- 13 -
Nevertheless, the field is open to allow future investors to enter the cocoa
market.
Scaling Down JCTC's Generalized Food Subsidies
4.13      The cost of the Generalized Food Subsidies program through JCTC
amounted to J$ 87 million in FY90, below the target under the ASAL of J$ 130
million. GOJ has reported that in FY91 there were no transfers to JCTC, either
from the Central Government or from any other public source, consistent with the
Agricultural Policy Statement under the ASAL.
Land Divestment and Titling
4.14      The program of land divestment started in FY82, and a total of 41,000
acres of Government land were sold and about 30,000 acres leased out on a long-
term basis in the FY82-88 period. In FY89 (from April 1, 1989 to March 31, 1990)
the program continued to be implemented at a good pace, with 5,215 acres sold and
4,050 acres leased out for 49 years. Implementation continued in FY90, albeit
at a much reduced pace with 442 acres sold and 300 acres leased out in the first
nine months of the year. Overall since FY82, 46,657 acres of Government land
have been sold and about 34,350 acres leased out on a long-term basis.  The
Government fell short of its target to transfer to freehold some 48,000 acres by
end of FY89. Part of the slowdown and shortfall to date is due to the difficulty
in surveying the land as well as legal problems (e.g., incomplete transfer to
Government). GOJ's performance in its land titlinu program was satisfactory,
with 1,277 titles issued in FY89 and 1,589 titles in FY90. Adding the 650 titles
issued in FY87 and 1,236 titles in FY88, a grand total of 4,752 titles were
issued in the 1986-90 period. The target at the commencement of the program in
FY87 was projected to be 12,000 titles issued in four years, but in retrospect
this was considered to be overly optimistic.
Divestment of Agricultural and A_roindustrial Enternrises
4.15      GOJ has strived to meet the targets, but it has proven difficult to
complete the divestment process in most of the cases. Since Loan negotiations,
GOJ actively sought the divestment of nine agricultural/ agroindustrial
enterprises and, in two cases, divestments were completed (Jamaica Frozen Foods
Ltd., and Jamaica A4ualapia Ltd.).  Ir. the remaining seven cases efforts are
still ongoing, as followss (i) Cornwall Dairy Development Ltd., there are ongoing
negotiations with two buyers, one local and one foreign, and prospects appear
good; (ii) Agricultural Mechanical Services Ltd., negotiations were completed for
sale at J$ 5 million (US$600,000), but the buyer failed to make the agreed
downpayment. GOJ has decided to sell the assets individually and separately;
(iii) Jamaica Fisheries Complex, there are two interested parties and
negotiations for lease of assets valued at J$ 9.7 million (US$1,170,000) are
still being carried out; (iv) National Cassava Products Ltd., initial
negotiations with a foreign investor failed to arrange for the sale of the
corresponding assets valued at J$ 7.5 million (US$900,000). Presently, there are
two other prospective investors; (v) Darliston Community Foods, with assets
valued at J$ 1.3 million (US$160,000), has not been able to find buyers and the



- 14 -
current leaseholder who is interested does not have the capital or the financing
neceasary to carry out the purchase; (vi) Mcntpelier Dairy Estates, which
comprtses 5,000 acres of land, a processing facility, and several buildings, has
been offered for lease as a unit. Alternatively, the processing facility has
been offered for sale. Two foreign enterprises have indicated interest; (vii)
St. Jago/Spring Plain Mango Parm, three options have been offered to prospective
foreign investores (i) to lease the land, orchards and packing plant; (ii) to
enter into a joint-venture with a local private investor; or (iii) to purchase
assets on the property.
4.16      The lack of success in divesting these enterprises could be a result
of unrealistic selling prices. In any case, at the time of releasing the second
tranche, the Bank deemed that GOJ efforts had been satisfactory, which seems
reasonable in view of the efforts undertaken. Indeed, the GOJ has, in the last
years, accelerated the process of privatization and has included the heavy
Government involvement in the sugar industry in the approved list of enterprises
to be divested.
Rationalization of Pesticides Use
4.17      A study of pesticide use, satisfactory to the Bank, was prepared with
assistance of GTZ (German Government Technical Assistance Agency). Based on the
study, an action plan was submitted by the Government and agreed to by the Bank.
A component to assist in the implementation of the action plan would be included
in the proposed Small Farmer Development Project, currently under preparation.
Other Policy Reforms in Agriculture
4.18      After Loan negotiations, there have been several other important deve-
lopments in line with the Agricultural Policy Statement under the ASAL, although
not directly related with the Loan's conditionality: (i) agreement to eliminate
JCTC's import monopoly; (ii) increased irrigation cost recovery; and (iii)
strengthening of agricultural support  services.    Regarding JCTC's  import
monopoly, and as GOJ agreed with the Bank under the TFSALII, JCTC's import
monopoly was eiiminated for all products up to now subject to such monopoly
(including corn, wheat, soybeans, and powder milk). GOJ will also divest JCTC'e
holdings in agroindustry. Regarding irrigation, GOJ increased its cost recovery
from 7S in FY87 to 9Z in FY88 and to 22.61 in FY89 and 24X in FY90, compared with
the FY90 target of 211 specified in the Loan's Agricultural Policy Statement.
Finally, regarding the agricultural support services, in line with the Loan's
Agricultural Policy Statement, GOJ reorganized its extension services in 1990,
into the Rural Agricultural Development Agency, a semi-autonomous agency
reporting to the Ministry of Agriculture.
Timint
4.19      The progress of agricultural sector reforms has been satisfactory. The
timing of the measures was good in all cases. As a result there were no delays
in meeting the Loan's conditions for Board presentation and second tranche
release, and disbursements were made on schedule.



- 15 -
E. MonitorinE of the Adiustment Pto2ram
Disbursements
5.1       Disbursements were made quickly.  The first tranche was disbursed on
March 30, 1990, only seven days after Loan signing, and only two days after the
Loan had been declared effective. The second tranche was disbursed on March 26,
1991, only four days after the release of the second tranche was authorized by
the Bank. The Closing Date was March 30, 1991.
Audit
5.2       The audit report for the Loan (first and second tranche together) was
carried out by independent external auditors agreed to by the Bank (Peat
Marwick). The report was reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
Loan Supervision
5.3       Loan supervision was adequate. Throughout implementation the Bank kept
updated information or progress under the operation and had close contacts with
the relevant Ministries in Jamaica.
Second Tranche Release
5.4       Before release of the second tranche of the Loan, the Bank made a
careful review of each of the conditions required for the release. An adequate
and unequivocal report was issued on March 22, 1991.
F.  Lessons Learned and Follow-Up Measures Recuired
Results
6.1       Progress on the program of agricultural reform agreed under the Loan
has been timely and satisfactory.   The general orientation of policy in the
sector towards greater reliance on market mechanisms for resource allocation and
fewer administrative controls has been successfully assisted by the ASAL. In
time, this is likely to lead to a more efficient allocation of resources within
agriculture and between agriculture and the rest of the economy. Since the ASAL
was part of an overall program of structural adjustment which is still
continuing, an assessment of its separate impact on the economy may be very
difficult, even after a number of years have elapsed.
Sustainabilitv
6.2       GOJ acted without delays in implementing the required reforms, which
provides some support to the expectation that the reforms will be maintained over



- 16 -
time. Nevertheless, as indicated above, in the minds of some officials at the
technical level there remain strong doubts about the desirability of some
measures, especially those related to raising ACB interest rates to market levels
and liberalizing agricultural imports.  It is not possible to tell with any
certainty what the prospects are for a policy reversal. Maintaining market-based
mechanisms for guiding resource allocation, over the long-term, is likely to
depend on achieving sustainud economic growth and reducing unemployment.  The
Bank can help to keep the reform momentum by continuing to support market
orientation through future loans and the general policy dialogue.
Lessons Learned
6.3       The methodology used to analyze sector issues and identify desirable
reforms (para. 3.2), which allowed for a true joint effort between the Bank and
the GOJ, facilitated reaching agreement on most issues (with the notable
exception, as already noted, of interest rates).  As a result of this close
cooperation during preparation, the implementation of the reform program was
carried out by the Government in a determined and timely manner.



- 17 -
PM?T IIs  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER' S PERSPECTI2V
This is the Borrower's unedited product9 with the contents not
attributable to the Bank.



- 18 -
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT OF JAMAICA
COMMENTS ON PART I
Paragraphs 3.4 and 4.9
The Agricultural Credit Bank rejects the statement in item 3.4 as follows:
allowed the ACB to make a large number of loans at the old (fixed)
subsidized rates to be disbursed over several years just before the
second tranche reforms were introduced"
The ACD would like to note that the public debate surrounding the demands by the
IBRD and the.IDB alerted farmers and financial intermediaries to the imminent
increase in rates. ACB simply responded expeditiously to the increased demand.
Additionally, the statement inaccurately conveys the impression that most loans
are disbursed over a considerable number of years. On the contrary, most of ACB
loans are disbursed within the first year.
Paragraph 4.8
Pre-payment without penalty is not accepted by the ACB. A policy exists on which
a prepayment fee of 3% is applied to any prepayment by Approved Financial
Institutions of outstanding principal amounts.
Paragraph 4.10
The Cooperative Societies Act was rejected by the llouse of Senate on 15 March
1991 for further liberalization of the rate of dividends that Societies could pay
to members.  It should be resubmitted to the llouse of Parliament in January 1992.
Paragrauh 4.12
Continuing disbursement on existing PC bank loans was effected for two reasons,
ACB's legal commitments to on these loans to the PC banks, and to avoid
jeopardizing the viability of projects.   Pre-payment without penalty is not
accepted by the ACB. A policy exists on which a prepayment fee of 3% is applied
to any prepayment by Approved Financial Institutions of outstanding principal
amounts.
13 January 1992



- 19 -
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (InRD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - PART II
GOVERNMENT 0F JAMAICA
STATE OF TImE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Despite major agricultural sector reforms over the 1980s, this sector had shown
marginal improvement in both production and productivity.   In 1988, the PIOJ
agricultural production index recorded its second lowest point of the decade.
The level of employment in the sector remain high, approximately 30X of the
labour force, with an average productivity level of J$620.0 (real GDP per capita)
compared to $2,271.1 in manufacturing in July 1989.
EARLIER REFORMS AND POLICIES
The government policy in agriculture shifted in the 1980s from direct involvement
in marketing and production and to a concentration on correcting specific market
inadequacies. A programme to divest government lands and productive assets in
the sector was initiated.   Other programmes concentrated on correcting the
incentives framework of production for both domestic and export markets. The
controls on the marketing of key export products through the EMO's were
systematically reduced, and more "e%fficient" pricing policies for domestic and
export crops, viz, cocoa, coffee, pimento, sugar and bananas, instituted. Major
restructuring took place in the sugar and banana industries including the
divestment of some plantations, management and marketing services. Reforms under
SAL I & II included the rationalization of services in agricultural credit and
irrigation.  llowever, the capacity to provide the services in environmental
maLnagement and extension was inadequately addressed.
During the late 1980s the GOJ continued to support small farmers, who make up
over 75% of agricultural enterprises, with major concessions. These concessions
included income tax relief, reduced interest rates on credit, subsidies on animal
feeds, duty exemptions on farm equipment and a highly protective import regime
covering agricultural products. The latter was particularly designed to provide
protection for local producers from exports of countries with heavily subsidized
agriculture.
Efforts to stem the substantial environmental degradation from poor farming
practices met with limited success, viz, the limited sustainability of civil
works aimed at stemming soil erosion. Similarly, the Crop Diversification and
Soil Conversation Programmes were frustrated by increasing pressures on the rural
poor from other adjustment reforms.
POLICY FRAMEWORK
Despite the limited developments brought by previous adjustment measures, the
general consensus between the GOJ and international agencies was that they were
moving in the right direction. Ilowever, some acceleration and intensification
was necessary. The areas targeted for further reform under the ASAL were mainly
those in which previous reforms were neither sufficiently advanced nor completed.



- 20 -
The Agricultural Development Policy Statement (ADPS) espoused the efficient
growth in agriculture through sound pricing policies, the removal of government-
induced market distortions, and the encouragement of joint local-ventures to
promote technology transfer. Significantly the policy statement pointed to the
need for strong and well-managed public sector institutions in agriculture, and
sound management of the environment.
DFSIGN PROCESS
Prior to the request for the ASAL in July 1987, the GOJ embarked on a programme
of technical assistance from the FAQ to review the institutional and policy
issues of agricultural reform in Jamaica. Over a period of two years (activities
were interrupted by the occurrence of llurricane Gilbert in 1988) both local and
foreign efforts went into the formulation and discussion of ten (10) policy
papers. Ilowever, in the design of the final terms of the ASAL, several important
points made by the FAO were seriously overlooked. Specifically:
(a)   the need for a stronger central policy planning entity for agriculture
(FAO, pg. 3) and the weaknesses in the provision of extension and research
services. There were very few reforms in the ASAL which addressed the
need for institution-strengthening.
(c)   the prediction that without the incentive of low imiterest rates, even
efficient investments in agriculture would decrease (FAO, pg.7). It is
understood that higher interest rates on agricultural credit would inhibit
investment. The aim, of the multilaterals, to increase efficiency in the
sector through market interest rates, rests on a number of assumptions
that do not apply in Jamaica.
Firstly, the financial markets in Jamaica are distorted by the presence of
a player that can and does both significantly alter the price of funds:
the central government.   The persistence of the balance of payments
problems and the need for stabilization were obvious indications that the
government would be pursuing active monetary policy for a time.  Under
these conditions, how can one then rely on the price determined in that
market, to be an indicator of the level of efficiency that must prevail in
a real sector, such as agriculture?
Secondly, under directed credit, real investment conditions such as
environmental risks and crop-cycles shoud be capitalized into the price
and terms of the credit.
The FAO had made a recommendation to link the agricultural interest rates
to the weighted average of time and savings deposit rates of commercial
banks. Additionally, the FAO had also recommended that further reforms of
agricultural interest rates be postponed for a full examination of the
potential effects and to avoid a possible retrenchment of investment in
the sector.



- 21 -
(d)   the absence of any real crop insurance, which increases t4e need for
lower-than-market interest rates to the sector (FAO, pg. 11).
(e)   cost recovery for the National Irrigation Commission - this was later
addressed under the TFSAL II.
(f)  others points from the FAQ report that were overlooked included the
investment code, the potential for import substitution and crop
diversification.
The process of consultation and negotiation was, nevertheless, enhanced by the
cooperation on the policy papers. Some of the recommended policies raised by the
working papers were addressed in the Reform Program.   In addition, other
conditionalities pursuant to the overall structural adjustment were included,
viz, the continued deregulation of cocoa exports and the citrus market and
targets for the land titling and divestment programmes.
In some areas, agreements on principle and method were relatively easy, while in
others, discussions produced the appropriate modifications of the proposed
conditionalities. The latter are as follows:
(a)   Import regime - Agreement was reached on immediate elimination of non-
tariff barriers, but a gradual adjustment of the effective and nominal
protection of domestic producers from agricultural imports was deemed
necessary.
(b)  JCTC monopoly - It was recognized that an across-the-board elimination of
monopoly import procurement by JCTC would not necessarily be effective.
Each good would have to be examined on a case-by-case basis to assess the
reasons for monopoly importation. This was later achieved by TFSAL II.
(c)  Cocoa Industry Board - It was agreed that the Board should retain its
quality control function in order to maintain Jamaica's reputation for
fine-flavoured cocoa.
(d)  Agricultural Credit - It was agreed that a distinction be made between
small farmers and large and medium farmers in terms of the interest rates
policy, the former being those with less than 25 acres of gross land.
(e)  Agricultural Pricing  Policy -   While  both parties  agreed to  the
elimination of the Generalized Food Subsidies within three years there was
an adjustment in the calculation of the full cost of the subsidy.
1 Given the understanding that agriculture is a critical sector and given the high level of risk associated with anpredictable
climatic conditioas, the absence of crop insurance increases the level of risk that an investor aust bear. Therefore,
interest rates (which are themselves risk-iaducing when overly high) may be kept low as a compensating inceative for other
high risk conditions).



- 22 -
(f)   Divestment of Agricultural Assets - The parties recognized that it was
inappropriate to require sales of government assets within a specific time
period. The wording was changed to require the attempted sale and/or
dissolution of entities in the event of no sale.
Agricultural Credit Interest Rates
The deliberations on agricultural credit interest rates deserve deeper
examination. While there was fragile agreement on the need to index agricultural
credit rates to the market lending rates, major disagreement ensued over the
proxy for the opportunity cost of funds, the differential to be used in the
index, and the phasing of the adjustments.
Iligher levels of risk and the critical role of agriculture in development and
rural welfare, were the major arguments put forward by the GOJ for maintaining
affordable credit to the sector. The IBRD argued for promoting higher levels of
productivity in the sector through the efficient allocation of investment funds
at the market rate. It was put forward that this would preclude rent-seeking by
farmers who could afford to borrow at commercial market rates.
Despite strong disagreement with the suggested policy, the Government of Jamaica
proposed a "compromise" reform entailing a more gradual adjustment of interest
rates. The Appraisal team's recognition of this "step forward" was, however,
followed by a rejection from the management of the IBRD in favour of a hardline
position without any further analysis of the potential outcomes. This would seem
to contradict the consultative design process of I3RD loans.
Targeted Support for Agricultural Sector
The concern by several GOJ officials in the agricultural sector that proceeds
from the ASAL were to be utilized primarily for Balance of Payments support was
allayed by a commitment from the IBRD of a future Small Farmer Development
Project. It should be noted however, that, to date, agreement has not yet been
reached on the nature of this project.
NEGOTIATIONS PROCESS
The formal negotiations for the ASAL were uncommonly difficult. Ilowever, fine
tuning of the conditionalities proceeded   satisfactorily and agreement was
reached on most issues. The exception of the agricultural credit interest rates
issue  proved  tenacious.    Accord  was  finally  reached  through  continued
communications between the Bank and the Government.  Several lessons can be
gleaned from a review of the ASAL negottitions process.
(a)   It appears that the field appraisal team was unduly restricted in the
scope of decisions that it could take.   As a result, issues that were
thought to have been resolved satisfactorily were forcibly re-opened by
IBRD during formal negotiations.



2a 
(b)   Some operational aspects of the loan were not sufficiently reviewed prior
to negotiations, for example, the arrangement between and for each of the
co-financing organizations, and the procurement guidelines for private
sector imports to be financed with loan funds.
(c)   The main objectives of the loan-conditioned reform programme (and that of
subsequent loans) remained unclear: general structural adjustment measures
or adjustment measures directly affecting the named sector.   This was
evident in the earlier inclusion of petroleum sector requirements in this
loan.
(d)   The  IBRD team came  to  the  formal  negotiations  with  no bargaining
flexibility. In the face of disagreement, no compromise was possible on
their part, as their role seemed to be simply to insist on the letter of
the loan document.   This situation makes negotiating very difficult,
because any movement on the part of the Bank must be referred to its
bureaucracy and away from the negotiating table.  In contrast, the GOJ
team was sent to the negotiations with some latitude on the decisions that
they could take.
CO-FINANCING PROCESS
Th3 ASAL marked the GOJ's first attempt at co-financing with both multilateral
(IJRD and IDD) and bilateral (OECF-Japan, KFW-FDR and Netherlands Government)
agencies  for  an  adjustment  operation.    While  different  administrative
arrangements for each funding agency were expected, it is noted that they
resulted in a few difficulties in the timing of the disbursements.   (This is
discussed further in the Review of Implementation.)
Different conditionalities between lenders in a co-financing arrangement were not
expected.   As a result of disparate IDB and ILRD requirements,  separate
negotiations were required and subsequent discussions drawn out for close to one
year. This process is inordinately expensive in both time and effort for the
borrower.
Co-financing should be a synergistic exercise. Ilowever, it has been the Jamaican
experience that this is not the case. The major weakness has been in the absence
of coordination on the part of the financing, agencies.  The World Bank must
reexamine its claim of organizing co-financed assistance on behalf of Jamaica,
if it does not assume a stronger coordinating role.  It is expected that for
future co-iinancing arrangements, the lead donor will accept the responsibility
to pull some agreement from tie other agencies on the policy reforms expected and
the timing of disbursements.
2      It should be noted that the references to co-financing in the ASAL
and subsequent IORD loan documents are so brief and perfunctory that
they raise some questions concerning the the World Bank's perception
of its role as the lead agency.



- 24 -
The ASAL and later experiences have shown that the co-financing process runs the
risk of major weaknesses  if some coordination  is lacking.   Firstly,  funds
committed under these arrangements are programmed during the IMECB Dotiations as
assured inflows in their targets for Jamaica.  When these fows are delayed or
not  forthcoming,  the  repercussions  are  grave  and  far-reaching,  as  were
experienced during this and other loans.  Secondly, there is a serious danger
that the policy prescriptions for the borrowing country can be influenced by
inter-agency politics. This in turn jeopardizes the integrity of the process of
cooperation and consultation between the lenders and the borrower. The third
inefficiency is a matter of different requirements for the same issue. While on
one hand the multilateral agencies want to see coherent policies coming from the
Jamaican government, it is contradictory for agencies to require different policy
measures for the same issues on a co-financed loan that have same issue.
APPROPRIATENESS O PROGRAM
The reform programme accomplished two main goals: (a) addressing some
recommendations of the FAO report; and (b) advancing some of the agricultural
reforms started in the previous loans. It contributed to successfully effecting
some needed activities:   These included the appropriate liberalization of
marketing arrangements for cocoa and citrus, the useful impetus on the land
titling and divestment programs and on enterprise divestment, and constructive
pressure on PC banks to improve the arrears situation. Several comments on the
appropriateness of the reform programme are still necessary.
(a)   There were no real projections for potential role of the agricultural
sector. The need for a strategic agricultural sector policy within the
economic policy of liberalized markets is still unaddressed.
(b)   the interest rate policy demanded by the World Bank did not reflect the
different treatment that is necessary for reforms in real sectors than for
reforms in financial sectors.   Given agreement on the need to raise
interest rates to the agricultural sector, the adjustment should have been
gradua]l inatead of 4,be drastic hike in the interest charges that occurred.
(c)   The absence of any reference to crop insurance is an important omission.
(d)   The role of the agriculture sector in the provision of rural welfare is
only superficially  addressed  (the concession to differentiate  small
farmers). Any adjustment programme for this sector should have directly
addressed the effects on the welfare effects of rural communities and
methods for alleviating them. If not, the programme will meet inevitable
resistance and will divert government resources and energies into seeking
compensating activities in a confrontational atmosphere.



- 25 -
REVIEW OF ;MPLEMENTATION
Several of the loan requirements were fulfilled with few complications. Ilowever,
certain conditionalities were both difficult to achieve, and had limited effects.
It is useful to note them so that energy expended in fulfilling conditionalities,
for later loans, is not injudiciously spent on reforms of limited strategic
effect.  The effectiveness of any loan reform programme must also take into
account the scheduling, evidence needed for proof of fulfillment and other
administrative requirements.
Agricultural Credit Interest Rate Changes
Given the more austere requirements by the IDD re agricultural credit interest
rates and the monetary policy at the time of implementation (15 December 1990),
interest rates for small farmers increased from 11% to 23% and for large and
medium farmers from 15% to 30%. A vigorous public debate on the demands of the
World Bank and IDB took place in the last quarter of 1990. In anticipation of
the increase, farmers and their financial intermediaries sought to take advantage
of the prevailing rates by submitting planned projects for approval early. The
Agricultural Credit Bank having stated its disagreement with the policy,
expedited the evaluation and approval process, resulting in a high level of
approvals before the increase in interest rates was effective.
In addition, being cognizant of the increased potential for business failures and
reduced investment among small farmers under a literal doubling of interest
charges, the Agricultural Credit Bank devised a programme of production
incentives and supports for these farmers.   This programme came under the
scrutiny of the IBRD as a potential contravention of the Agricultural Development
Policy Statement accompanying the ASAL and was later modified.
Enterprise Divestment
Some  difficulty  was  experienced  in  the  divestment  of  government-owned
agricultural/agricultural enterprises.   Only two of the nine enterprises for
which divestment was actively sought,  were completely disposed.   llowever,
interest has been indicated on all but one.  In a few cases, several buyers
including foreign investors failed to follow through with stated commitments.
This record is to be addressed under the proposed Private Sector Development Loan
which includes a review of the climate for privatization: potential investors,
available financing, the absorptive capacity of the private sector; is proposed.
Land Titling and Divestment
Despite the impetus to accelerate the land titling and divestment programmes,
partial waivers were necessary because the targets were not achieved.   In
retrospect it is noted that these targets were still unrealistic, even after
being scaled down in the formal negotiations. In the case of land titling, the
problems of a senior officer abandoning his position and the late arrival of
vehicles retarded activities so that only 1,589 of the required 2,000 titles were
drawn up in FY1989/90. With reference to the land divestment effort, the GOJ
continued apace with 5,215 acres sold and 4,752 acres leased on long-term
arrangements.



- 26 -
Changes in Legislation
Several of the conditions for the second tranche disbursement of the ASAL were
amendments to prevailing legislation: (i) Agriculture Marketing Act, (ii) Cocoa
Industry Board Act, (iii) Cooperative Societies Act, and their associated
Regulations. The democratic process for legislative changes in Jamaica is both
thorough and lengthy and was further extended by the inclusion of the
multilateral agencies, both the IDB and the IBRD and their legal departments in
the decision-making processes.
The resources expended to fit these processes into the strict timetabling of a
loan agreement should be valued against the short term impact of the changes.
While the Agriculture Marketing Act amendments have had immediate impact
(discussed below), the Cocoa Industry Board Act has not resulted in any change
in the size of the cocoa industry. The Cooperative Societies Act amendment was
rejected by the Upper llouse for further changes and will be resubmitted to
Parliament in early 1992.
Disbursements
Some challenges were experienced in the programming of disbursements and
technical assistance from the various co-financiers of the ASAL.  Despite a
Janu-i  1990 Board presentation at IBRD, loan agreements were not signed with
ot.,- r aoncies until May, July and August 1990, respectively. Similarly, but for
reazven,s 'entioned above, signing with the IDB took place in December 1990.  This
resuited in considerable difficulties for the GOJ, including but not limited to
the complications with the IMF.
IMPACT AND EFFECTS
While it is too soon to comprehensively analyse the effects the adjustment
programme of the ASAL, the initial market response to some of the reforms is
already apparent.
Macroeconomic Context
During the ASAL, the GOJ increased the pace of the structural adjustments with
the institution of market-determined exchange rates, removal of price controls,
and reduced  fiscal  borrowing  requirements.    Several  other  macro-economic
indicators showed improvement, including the debt servicing ratio, the current
account deficit (as a percentage of GDP) and the average rate of unemployment.
Ilowever, during the year, the economy saw a decline in private consumption, a 6%
fall in real wages, and a decline in gross investment. The latter was partly due
to the tight monetary policy implemented over much of the year. Credit ceilings
were in operation until December 1990, and the average weighted loan rate had
increased to 31.6% by that time.
Agriculture Sector
Following the ASAL, which was concluded in March 1991, the PIOJ agricultural
production index for the quarter ending June 1991, showed a marginal increase
over the corresponding quarter in 1990.  Export production, rose by 2.7X with
improved competitiveness due to the depreciation of the Jamaican currency, while
domestic production declined by 8.0% despite a 62.2X increase in domestic
(Farmgate) prices.



- 27 -
Agricultural Credit Interest Rates
In fulfillment of these conditionalities, the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB)
increased interest rates to farmers as follows:
Small Farmers                Medium/Large Farmers
November 1989                                       from 14% to 15% (a)
January 1990       from 11  to 12%
December 1990         to 23%                             to 30% (a)
March 1991            to 24%                             to 31% (a)
September 1991        to 23X                to 23% + commercial bank margin (b)
December 1991         to 36%                          to commercial bank rates
(a) including ACB-determined margin for commercial banks
(b) commercial banks now determine their own margin
Strong adverse criticism was voiced by the entire community on what had amounted
to a doubling of interest charges. A threatened boycott of ACB loans took place.
In addition, some immediate effects of the interest rate changes have been noted
by the ACB, including:
(a)   a 47.9% decline in the number of loan approvals from small farmers during
January to November 1991 from the corresponding period in 1990, 60.4%
decline in value of loan approvals for the same periods;
(b)   a noticeable shift in the purpose for which new loan funds are being
utilized for medium to large farmers applications now relate to the
purchasing of vehicles and equipment rather than development projects;
(c)   most new applications involve ongoing enterprises which already have most
of their infrastructure in place;
(d)   a dearth of new entrepreneurs attracted to this sector, in light of the
high financing costs, and competition from imports;
(e)   the reduction in the difference between development and commercial bank
financing: at one point, the two leading commercial banks had base lending
rates lower than ACB rates.
Citrus Market
Changes in the Ministerial regulations concerning citrus marketing took place
(date) and the amendment of the Agricultural Marketing Act was enacted on (date).
Citrus deliveries to (reported) processing plants fell in both the first and
second quarter of 1991 compared with the corresponding quarters in 1990, by 64.7%
and 29.5%,  respectively.   These figures do not include deliveries to new
facilities for which data is unavailable.   There has also been a noticeable
increase in the incidence of praedial larceny in this subsector conceivably
spurred on by the removal of the requirement to present licences on supplying
citrus to the processing plant.



- 28 -
Cocoa Market
Despite the advancing of reforms that stretch back from SAL I & II, production
in the cocoa market has not improved with liberalization. Production remained
at approximately 6,500 tonnes for 1986-1988.   In April-June 1991, some 1,785
tonnes were produced, representing a 26% decline over the corresponding quarter
of 1990.
CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
Legislative Changes
One lesson of the ASAL is that serious consideration needs to be given to the
cost-effectiveness, and opportunity cost of placing legislative changes in the
list of required policy actions.  The constraining factor here are: (1) the
effort and time costs in fitting legislative changes into a rigid timetable; and
(2) the potential for timely effects.
Interest Rates Policy
As pointed out by both the GOJ and the FAO, a comprehensive analysis of the
possible effects of increased credit rates on the Jamaican agricultural sector
should have formed the basis of any decision to discontinue subsidized lending
to the sector. The emerging situation could have been avoided had the IBRD team
had taken into account the characteristics of the Jamaican sector. In addition,
there is no empirical support for the danger of loan arbitrage, especially given
the loan monitoring procedures, the nature of the Jamaican farmer and the lack
of developed capital markets.
Co-financing
The major lesson from the recent experiences with co-financing is the need for
a stronger  coordinating  role  from  the  lead  agency.    Coherent  policies,
conditionalities and the timing of disbursements are some of the arrangements
that become difficult in the absence of this lead actor. The synergy expected
from a co-finance loan can be all but overturned into excessive costs because of
the lack of coordination.
Ilowever there are some positive lessons. Firstly, the exposure to the different
administrative requirements of the co-financiers must be constructive and will
allow further cooperation. Secondly, all have gained an awareness to the dangers
of inter-agency politics influencing the conditionalities of a reform programme.
The successful completion of the ASAL can be viewed as a useful experiment for
both financing organizations and borrower.
Transparency of Objectives and Proposed Mechanisms
While the ultimate objective of the ASAL reform programme was the "development
of a modern and efficient agricultural sector" (ADSP Para.3), the underlying
mechanisms toward these objectives were not apparent. This lack of transparency,



- 29 -
as it were, can lead to both an inappropriate choice of reforms and unnecessary
disagreement on policy changes.  It is neither clear what specific mechanisms
were expected to engender that growth nor the precise measures of success.
Therefore it is difficult to ever assess whether the objectives have been met or
not.
A case in point is the issue of concessionary credit rates and reduced protection
from imports. One accepts that market interest rates are, in the long-run, more
efficient allocators  of investment  funds.   But what were the ad.listment
mechanisms implicitly understood in the proposal to rapidly erase access to
concessionary rates for a long protected sector?
The obvious result in the short term is failure of many marginally efficient
enterprises which do not have time to adjust. This should promote an increase
in the productivity level as only efficient enterprise s remain, but certainly in
the medium term a decline in the level of production .
If these are the perceived mechanisms, discussions should ensue on their
appropriateness, (for example, the disappearance of the small business farms)
rather on than theoretical constructs, if the goal is to select appropriate
policies. Clarity on adjustment mechanisms specific to the country and sector
can only enhance the discussions and negotiations on reform objectives.
13 January 1992
Tlw leu efficivaL farmers will exit frum Lhe iLiduuLry leuaviul buLlt tLhe subib&Lelue uaild
prufil*able eLj,riere  III fuuL, Llth vuluee uf uubAiatsLelue faLur  ny increase as some
marginally efficient farmers move down into that category.



- 30 -
PART III:  BASIC DATA SHEET
Orisinal    Disbursed   Canceled   ReDaid   Outstandinx
Loan Amount           25.0         25.0          0.0        0.0        25.0
(Amounts in US$ million equivalent)
Actual
Initiating Memorandum                           November 2, 1988
Development Policy Letter Negotiations          August 21-25, 1989
Board Approval                                  March  6, 1990
Signing of Loan Agreement                       March 23, 1990
Effectiveness                                   March 28, 1990
Loan Closing                                    March 30, 1991
Actual Completion                               March 26, 1991
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY91
(i)   Planned                                   12.5      25.0
(ii)  Actual                                    12.5      25.0
(iii) Actual as S of Planned                   100.01    100.O0
STAFF7 INPUTS
(staff weeks)
FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92
Pre-appraisal        51.8      9.6    31.3    20.4
Appraisal                                      25.0     2.6
Negotiation                                            18.1
Supenrision                                             3.2    15.9    13.8
Other                 0.1      4.5     2.7
Total                52.0    14.1    34.1    45.4    24.0    15.9    13.8
V1 Negotiationa were protracted and took five months to be completed. They vere initiated on
August 21, 1989, and completed on January 25, 1990.



- 31 -
MISSION DATA
No. of   No. of    Staff       Date of
Month. Year   Weeks    Persons   Weeks         Report
Preparation I           June 1987        1          2         2      7/31/87
Preparation II          Aug. 1987        1          1         1      8/30/87
Preparation III         Dec. 1987        1          1         1     12,17/87
Preparation IV          Feb. 1988        1          1         1      3/08/88
Pre-Appraisal           June 1988        3          3         9      7/14/88
Appraisal               Nov. 1988        3          4        10     12/14/88
Post-Appraisal          June 1989        2          2         4      6/23/89
Supervision             None v
FOLLOW-ON ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS
Jamaica Second Trade and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Lin. No.3303-JM),
approved on March 21, 1991. in the amount of US$30.0 million, which would support
the Government's trade and financial sector reform program which began in 1987.
The trade reform would reduce protection and make it more uniform across sectors
and subsectore and increase competition and the efficiency of enterprises. The
financial sector reforms would strengthen the means for managing monetary policy,
improve the regulatory framework and supervision of financial institutions and
make the allocation of financial resources more efficient.
Jamaica Proposed Private Sector Adjustment Loan, under preparation, which would
support trade liberalization, reform of the legal, regulatory and institutional
framework to improve the business environment and privatization of several public
enterprises, including the sugar industry.
V1 There were no formal supervision mission. Progress on implementation of second tranche
conditions wy followed up from Washington through telephone and written comuanications. Also,
discussions on progress were held by the Task Manager in Jamaica in two occasions between first
and second tranche (April 1990 and October 1990), while visiting the country in connection with
other task. A number of detailed memoranda were prepared during the course of the project on
the progress of the loan.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo    Inter-American Development Banic
Banco Interamericano de Desenvolvimento     Banque interamdricaine de d6veloppement
Washington, D.C. 20577
CABLE: INTAM8ANC
September 17, 1991
Mr. Hugo Diaz
Senior Economist, Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III, LAC
The World Bank
Wazhington, D.C.
Dear Hugo,
As discussed by telephone, we have the following comments for
modification of the PCR on the Jamaica Agricultural Sector Loan:
Page 6. Para 3.4, L 5 - Substitute 'some" for "many"
L 8 - Substitute "an average of four" for "several"
Footnote 1 - Rewrite as follows: "Still, a small, but decreasing
number of government ..n,
Page 7, Para 3.7 We suggest the paragraph be modified to show that the guiding
concept was that interest rates to small, medium and large farmers
was to progressively move to market determined interest rates
rather than administratively set rates. As a matter of fact, the
IDB introduced the concept of variable and market related
interest rates in the early negotiations.
Prior to second tranche disbursement, the IDB reached agreement
to modify the contract for the ACB  to adopt varial  and
adiustable interest rates and for medium and large farmers to
borrow zc market rates with small farmers borrowing at the
Treasury Bill rate or certificate of deposit rate and to drop the
linkage to the inflation rate since the interest rates are to be
wmarKet" determined.
Page 10 Para 4.10
The fixed exchange rate was the cause of the distortions
mentioned, not the IDB requirement for positive real lending
rates.
Please let us know if you have any questions.
With best regards,
Alf    Thieame, Jr.
Senior Advisor, Project Advisory Office
Project Analysis Department



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
TELEFAX E LT                                     KreditanStalt
&A  dSM     -                          fur Wiederaufhau
rAw&*i de *inaU 2
pQ       ,MuO d 
1 4     "'1  "   2
T.Jefax.AnschluB Empfinger            Telefax.Anschlu KfW: (0-69) 7431 2944
Palmangartftra ra 9  Telefon: (0 .69) 74 31 0
Potach 11 t 41   T.I.gr'nmadtesoxs
World Bank                          60m Frasnkufl am Msin 11  Krodltanat Fmurnanin
Mr. Hugo C. Diaz                                      rejex: 4 152560 kIv
Country Department II1                                T#.fax: (0465)74312944
Latin America amd the                                 Tsetex:69 984 * KIW
Caribbean Regional Off&e
Washington, D.C., USA                       -  -
Hsg/Hnz 485  2583    10.09.91
L I b /    Financial Codparatiom with Jamaica
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
SubiegtL   Project Completion Report
Dear Mr. Diaz:
We thank you for the drafts of Parts I and III of your above re-
port, which provide & very clear and comprehensive picture of
the implementation experience, the policy actions taken, and
the B3nk's role in the process of identification, preparation
and executidn of the program.
As regards comments, we would first like to mention that one
sort of misses a brief resume of Jamaica's overall economic per-
formance in the gecond hfba_ of the eighties - i.e. after the
hiatus* of Bank lending and following the various adjustment
operations agreed since 1987 (Part I, A).
More important, however, we fee  that the results analysis (Sec-
tion 6.1 of Part I, F and section 3 of, the Evaluation Summary)
is rather short. While we agree that it is dif-.icult to. assess
the contributions of the separate policy actions to future sec-
tor growth, particularly after such a short period of time,
some more effort in this regard would have been appreciated.
Such exercise might even have been helpful in reducing the re-
servations obviously still existing in Jamaica with regard to
some of the policy actions. In this context, we also miss any
reference to the impact of the program on the poor, be it the
small agricultural producer or be it the urban consumer, in
view of the various rather direct radiations of the program or
these strata.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Finally, we think that the judgement on the sugtainability
should also take into consideration the remaining program of ta-
riff reductions on agricultural and agro-industrial products,
as this aspect was originally considered one of the main
risks" due to expected producers' oppositi3n.
We do hope that these comments will be deemed constructive. we
also take this opportunity to thank you fer your truly coopera-
tive approach vis-a-vis ourselves, particularly at the time of
program appraisal, negotiations, and preparation, of second
tranche release.
Please let us know whether the Bank's procedures do envisage an-
other results-oriented performance audit at some later date or
whether books will be closed on the program after this comple-
tion report.
W th  est regards,
DSTALT FR WI
(  . Zenk)



_   ,      Z                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~113R 2111f
're .,  I ji   t                db III
L1 0     G  X i                                                        11"'/
6   |    E   t  l A I[t-7       \ i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
nX0j di"aeD
I fl 1| 'iZ<Xvrt4)  X{   W} <;  X   
~~, ii .s
Fe~ ~BRu   e



